ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to the House's 2-8-2017 authorisation, PXD PRD's minutes at its meetings of Wednesday, August 2, 2017, with regard to the vote in the entire draft law of the Ministry of Education, Research and Religious Affairs: "Organisation and functioning of higher education, regulations on research and other provisions".]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Reforming the Primary Health Care, urgent arrangements of the Ministry of Health and other provisions". So we continue with the list and invite Mr. Meikopoulou to Step for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. If we put aside the toxic positions, I think that with coolness and sobriety we can distinguish three fields, three issues, which can also be a common place for a serious discussion between government and counterpopulation. I think the first issue, to which we all agree, is that due to the protracted economic recession for the seventh consecutive year, public health service users have multiplied greatly. The second is that due to inadequate primary health care, most people either turn massively to the secondary level, i.e. hospitals, or turn to private health, which for the low-income groups means an additional financial burden. The third issue, to which we will all agree, is the following. No one in here claims that the public health system spends alkonidae days. Obviously, staffing issues continue and continue to apply and the essential requirement of the quality upgrade of the national health system is still in force. The fundamental question, in my opinion, is this: is there political will, political will, so that the correlations in the public health system can be reversed in the positive direction? In my opinion, there is, but after two years there are also measurable results, both in the field of staffing and in the area of the most qualitative upgrading of public health services. These are three areas, in which we can agree, but also one question, the answer to which it has a very specific visible and measurable effect two years later. What happened to this day? The public health system was a system which was basically a hospital and largely medical center. Where did this dual role contribute? It has contributed to the creation of an operating framework which had neither documentation nor control of medical operations. A field was created in which provoked demand, waste of resources, over-regulatory laboratory tests and medicines and, of course, all of this resulted in widespread corruption. The result toward the world was a lack of quality public health care. If we want to distinguish between two quality characteristics in this reform, these are the following. Following the universal health coverage of the insecure population of the country and the recent regulation to delete the existing debts of uninsured health care, the reform of primary health care is a follow-up to a political direction for the critical health sector and, in my opinion, responds to a difficult fiscal situation in Greece. The second feature - we are also going back to the past - is that thirty-four years before the National Health System was structured and thirty-four years later, I think - with this intervention - the institutional integration of the National Health System comes after the decline and depreciation of the structures of primary health care in previous years. There is a certain distortion, which is particularly attempted by opposition MPs. It is trying to build a rhetoric that there is a confrontation of this reform with the private sector. That's not true. The private sector is not omitted. On the contrary, it operates in subsidiary mode. The EEAS may conclude employment contracts with private individuals, who will act as family doctors with a registered population of responsibility where public primary health care structures are not sufficient to meet the needs of the population. An important element, too, is that the existing network of primary health care structures is not depreciated, but is exploited as a second level of primary health care already in existence, thus contributing to the overall qualitative upgrading of the public health system. As I said at the outset, since, after four years, the primary health care system can be fully integrated into the ESS, the strategic targeting strategy is, on the one hand, the decongestion of hospitals and, on the other, the universal coverage of the population at an innovative level. I believe that by removing toxic thoughts, this is a reform which will really help people who need it. As I said before, when fully integrated into the public system, it will be the completion of the National Health System. I do not believe that there is any controversy with the private sector. I think we should also vote in favour of this, but we should all contribute - both the Civic Opposition and the opposition parties in general - to further improve this reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. The Vice-President, Mr Cremastino, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u4	Madam President, I would ask for some tolerance in time, because I too have been a Minister. I would ask for an equal treatment - somehow - treatment with the former ministers who have spoken. What I said to the committee is that they need resources and not laws to operate the National Health System and the institution of the family doctor. And I said at that time, addressing the ministers: 'Where are the networks of doctors of primary health care established by laws and the ministers of warts speaking here in the House, as the current ministers now speak?' Where are these? Where's the personal doctor? Where is - another law - the urban health centers with their branches that would block access to hospitals? Nowhere. I fear that the TOMYs too, because they have the same weaknesses as others, will have the same fate. And I say this because, as I said in committee, I had not touched the institution of the family doctor, while I had touched all the issues when I was at the Ministry of Health, for precisely Abel Smith, who is considered for that time an economist of Europe, then a dean of the London School of Economics, said to me: 'If you don't guarantee resources, don't.' And I said to the committee, who are the resources which the complexion, unfortunately of health, had then made sure that they would not be secured. In any case, I did not go along with this without money, so that I did not have the luck of the next ministers. Because the next ministers had this fate, which I did not have, regarding the issue of family doctors. As I propose - and I have proposed to the committee - the hybrid health system, I would like to remind you, in particular, of the younger Members and Members of the SYRIZA, that, when I took over by the Ministry of Health, I was the Minister who brought back the full and exclusive employment of doctors. Full and exclusive employment had been stopped and doctors, one-one, opened doctors and left hospitals. So then I was faced - if you like - with all the doctors who wanted to have medicine at the same time. This is historically proven by law. Also, I would remind you that I was again faced with medical leadership, because I insisted that doctors enter hospital cars and planes. The answer was that until then only nurses were in. And the trade unions said to me, "Would you make us nurses?" And the doctors finally entered the planes and cars, so you realize I had a huge problem myself personally. So the last person to whom he would like not to become full-time and full-time would be me, who was actually reinstated at that time. Please note, Minister, if I hadn't brought it back, because I was two and a half years Minister, you realize that all doctors would have left the hospital or - most of them - if you like. And simply, there would be no health system today. Who would bring them back, on what criteria and on what kind of money? So you realize how things are. It's hard. But if I were at the Ministry today, I wouldn't bring that law. I'd insist on the hybrid health system. And why would I insist on the hybrid health system? To take advantage of the private initiative that the public is currently taking advantage of, because I do not have the strength and the services to harness it today. The provocative demand for health services today is undeniable, as it has always existed. It's not today's phenomenon. How do you like it? That's the point. So a system, not the German but the German version, since we are studying it first, would be the ideal system at the moment for the country. We need to get away from ideological obsessions, bad lies. Because when the representatives of the Chinese Parliament came here, I asked them: 'If it were Mao Che Tung, would you have this system today?' You know what the Vice President told me. He smiled at me and said to me: "After Tin Ann Men Square, or we would have what the Soviet Union had in its development, or we would have our current system." He also said to me: "If Mao Tse Tung lived today, he would do our system." That's what the Chinese communist told me today. So obsessed is bad. I'll prove it to you very simple. I as professor of Attica Hospital, with leasing I got a machine worth 700,000 euros then. Today, it is two and a half years that Atticon doesn't have a MRI from what the professor said to me yesterday. Why doesn't he? Because it's broken and there's no money to buy. And I ask you: if he could take it, like I took it with leasing, why wouldn't he take it? Since the examinations they pay for the sick in private, the hospital itself when they ask for them, covers the price of leasing. So the insistence on staying in traditional, when we do not serve the final purpose, in my opinion, is wrong. I'll actually come. I'm not one of those people who think that the Department of Health does nothing. I think he's trying. I think that it is the evangelical mosque, 'whether or not the flesh is willing'. And as a 'harx', I mean the money. Unfortunately, it can't be done. There is no doubt that the Ministry of Health is trying, but that is not enough. For example, see Article 27 of the bill that we are voting on today. It says that a hospital is being set up in Karpathos - and please, Minister, if you can erase this - that it is excluded from the presidential decree on hospitals. It's written. I've at least seen it. If you've corrected it, I'm withdrawing it. If you haven't corrected it, see if it can, leave this at least. And why would you withdraw it? For there is no money to make any kind of regulations, to hire doctors and that is why he brings the doctors of today's health center to the hospital the new one, which is called "Saint John the Carpathius". And I, by humor, said St John would protect the hospital, but no matter how miraculous he is, they need doctors, bad lies. So this hospital, when it works, will not have a cardiologist, because the health center cardiologist left and is private today. So he doesn't have a cardiologist. So you can imagine having a hospital today on an island of tourists that doesn't have a cardiologist. He doesn't have a surgeon, because from what they told me, he died and he wasn't replaced. Anesthesiologist is not provided for in the Regulation. Nephrologist is not predictable. Neurologist is not predictable. Well, psychiatrist, we're not talking about it. It's a luxury! Eyewitness? Otorinolaryngologist? Hey, what hospital is that? I'll say it's the Ministry's fault? I know he doesn't have money and he can't do it. But we must take these things into account by the Ministry and leave the obsession. The system must give fruit. There is now a ten - year notice for a pediatrician in Kos. In fact, Mr Cameroon also expressed a relative view of the matter the other day. I will go further. When you have ten years of notice and there are four or five pediatricians out and no one wants to enter the system, because the money is very little, to say it clearly, what else can you do than say that when the notices spend a certain time - how much do you want? Two three, four, five years? Here is ten - then necessarily get a doctor under contract from the five to have a doctor in the hospital. We cannot remain in the obsession with full and exclusive employment which, in the final analysis, I reinstated as Minister. We can't stay in this obsession. If we can make the system work like this, with both hands I will vote 'yes'. But if we can't stay in this obsession? Unthinkable. Now I've been called by Mayor Lerous that a mint, he says, who I don't know exactly what he is, for the doctors of the Leros Therapy he's abolished and the doctors are threatening to leave, etc. I don't know about that. I'm just telling you. So, therefore, our problem is mainly the region, because here the situation is, at least alalum, at ease, you want with the external medical offices of hospitals that operate as a primary school, or with the "Doctors without Frontiers" either with the "Doctors of the World" or with municipal doctors or with social doctors. The situation in the big cities is getting worse. In the region, however, as I have said, these are open issues and must therefore somehow be dealt with. I have to say something, to finish with it, that challenging demand is the worst thing. Those who worked in the national system of England know that there the doctor who refers, the family doctor, has his PC, has his secretary. So is the curator's doctor and manager, and he has his secretary at the hospital, and he's answering, and the doctor's checking for what he's prescribing. Because he's telling him the hospital that the patient has the same condition, that's why it's actually becoming an economy by controlling prescribing. But if we do doctors who are essentially uncontrolled, you realize that prescribing will prosper and provoke demand will multiply. This is for me the least powerful factor in claiming that we need to move on to a flexible system that I call hybrid. But I'll finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u5	It's fourteen minutes...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Karayannides, ask for an exceptional time tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u7	I asked for a tolerance and you should be interested, because the National Health System is neither for systolics nor for neo-democratics. It's for everyone. You should have told me to talk all these minutes. I will conclude with the famous Julian Parabatis, who wanted to bring back the ancient good and ancient religion, and therefore sent a delegation to Delphi to ask how religion will come back, because he was not satisfied with Christianity, as it was then evolving. And the Delphi Mandea answered him with the famous: "You said to King, 'Hamai fell to the court, 'the palm has covered a mandea of laurel, and they have not always spoken' and ended with 'Abel and the water laurel'. The "lance water" of Delphi Mandea is the economy, it's the resources, it's the money. That is what we lack today to implement the family doctor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr. Kremastein. Fortunately, there's no other former Minister, so we're going quiet now. Mr. Theonas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Madam President. First of all I should like to say to all my fellow Members and colleagues who are here today. You will allow me to say two or three words very soon. I think Mr. Cremastino has put a crucial question. He says that resources are needed to address the health problems of families, citizens living in that country and not laws. Let us say that this is a dilemma and he wondered: Where are the resources? Where did the resources go? Really, all of us, where we are here today, wondering where the resources went? Let us ask ourselves what happened in 1953, with a measure taken by the then dominant political power in our country, which was EPE and its government. What measure did he take? All the money, the reserves of the insurance funds, must be deposited in a special account of the Bank of Greece at a zero rate, as defined by the relevant law adopted by that government, for the funds that had all their reserves in that special account. And what luck did this special bill have? The governments have been using it from that moment on to fund requests from industrialists for their investment mechanisms to modernise these equipment, to promote new investments in their plants. I should like to tell you the truth, it satisfied me that the money for the insurance funds was given for productive initiatives. This did not mean, however, that it should be justified that, when inflations of 25% and 30% were sent money from the funds to the funds, they were returned to much less than half or even a quarter of what they had deposited in the special account. So here's where the money went. And not just that. There has been this whole course since 1953 until several years later, when this was abolished, in 1986-1987, I think the government of Andreas Papandreou. In view of the developments surrounding Olympiada and so on, we had the PSIs, we had the realisation of insurance funds that had public institutions, public institutions, hospitals, and even universities that were seized in a way that did not honour the Bank of Greece's administration and were exploited for other purposes and not for the objectives of developing and serving citizens' rights and much more of the health-related rights. I therefore think that all of these are historical elements, and since at the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, Public Health and Consumer Protection a number of colleagues from the New Democracy and the Democratic Integration have dealt with a little bit of historical data, I think they should be given this information because they are historical data and they have put their mark on the pillaging of the resources of the insurance system, which is currently facing all these problems, not from poor management of the funds themselves, but from poor management of the governments which have thus managed the social security funds. From there, of course, there are other historical elements, but I don't think I came here to make history. However, I believe that the decision to abolish IKA's medicine was just as anti-popular as all the previous ones I mentioned, because IKA in itself was a primary health care body. He had established branches in a hundred fifty cities and in all the neighborhoods of the major cities, such as Athens, Thessaloniki, Patras, Heraklion, etc. Of these branches, half of them were immovable to the administrative services of IKA branches, and the other half were needed to house the IKA medical establishments, which even today we are talking about, their equipment in medical tools is excellent and after so many years they meet today's needs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President, and I'll be right over. I would like to say that in this context they decided to abolish the primary health care body that was the IKA, when IKA was not only serving the insured of its fund, but was serving all the citizens who needed medical care and lived in the region that was its particular branch. So they abolished the entity that was the IKA. IKA was the first primary health care provider in Greece. It was abolished, destroyed, and today we are trying to rebuild a corresponding entity. I think that this is the proposal that the administration of SYRIZA and the government of SYRIZA - ANEL, with the help and with the real heroic action of the health ministers we have today, of Andreas Xanthos and of the Deputy Minister of Health, Paul Paul Paulakis, who give everything, even the whole of them, to develop these services that are needed to serve the people. I would like to say one last thing. If the comrade Tasha gave me a minute, I'd do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u10	Leave it, Mr. Theonas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u11	It concerns covering all the uninsured in Greece. How did that happen? At a meeting held at the Ministry of Labour at the time, the Minister of Health, Panos Kourublis, raised the question of stating all the funds that had been called there - on the part of IKA, on the part of the then Governor of IKA, Robertos Spyropoulos and the then Deputy Director responsible for the financial problems of the IKA, who is speaking to you at the moment - how much they owe the EKA and normally give the money, because they come from health contributions. Of course, in fact, the contributions may have continued, health has not continued. I think that at that time there was impressive intervention by the respected and worthy Minister for Health, Andreas the Xanthos, who said: "We are talking about all this, and EEAY has its revenue, he takes it from the funds, etc., but we need to deal with one thing: in Greece there are millions of uncertainties. What are we going to do with these people?" We then, the Commander and the Deputy Commander of IKA, left this meeting dealing with this question put by the then State Secretary for Health.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u12	Please, Mr. Colleague, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u13	We went to IKA and formulated a global security plan for all uninsured citizens, whether they are Greek citizens or immigrants, whatever they were. And I think that this proposal and this tripartite decision that had to be taken to cover this area was included in the institutional reforms made by the Greek Government, submitted, placed on the data given to the European Union and its institutions and applauded in many respects this initiative and this action. This is how uninsured people in this country were covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u14	And that's the story.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u15	That's the story. Of course, it's history. Thank you very much to the President who has allowed me to describe these elements of history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u16	Please do not embarrass me, since most of the speakers are from SYRIZA. I am also not a companion, Mr. Theonas, I am a president here. We're not in a convention. Mrs Triantafel, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Today the audience is purely SYRIZA, except Mr. Kegeroglu, who is consistent with his presence here. First of all, I would like to begin with an amendment, which we have tabled and request an extension until 28 February 2017 and only for 2017 for legal persons governed by public law, such as the Ministry of Education, the hospitals etc. Therefore, to extend the obligation to suspension of the undertaking, to withdraw acts, which took place in the financial year 2016 in the ‘DENMARK’ programme. Here I must stress that invoices were issued, as they should have been issued, by the end of December 2016, until 31-12-2016. Why am I saying that? Because it means that credit invoices were sent to hospitals until 31-1-2017, but it was impossible to adopt any overthrowing acts of all these refuting acts, decisions, etc.. I don't know if you're gonna make it acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u18	I shall shortly be presenting all the parliamentary amendments that I shall be taking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u19	Good. Let's take a look at the bill. The system of functional collapse and shrinking and the quality and level of services in public health was undeniable. The primary health care bill is another step in the effort it has made over the past two and a half years the government to raise the public health system and put it in a different orbit than that of the collapse. The Ministry of Health, acting in adverse and very difficult economic conditions, managed to gradually stimulate staff injections and good management of the National Health System, so that we can now claim that health services are at a somewhat more satisfactory level for the data of the very difficult economic situation. What do we mean in particular? In 2015, when the SYRIZA government took over, the public expenditure was 4,7%. It increased slightly, but increased, in a context of exceptional financial suffocation, to 5.1%. Also, there were hospital debts. The hospital deficits with numbers were addressed. Numbers like it, although we're on our own today. I see we're completely alone now. At the end of 2014, public hospitals had a deficit of almost EUR 950 million. Why have they had a deficit in so much prosperity created by previous governments over the past few years, with the legislative miracles that they have been tabling for so many years? My colleague, Yannis Theonas, mentioned some issues very important to both the history of the insurance funds and how they are managed. I just want to say, to continue this argument and strengthen why there were deficits, that all that Yiannis Theonas said was enriched over the next few years, because they were giving and receiving overpricing, the party at the commissions. To think there are untouchable machines. At least when I first got a Member in 2012, we went to health centers and saw very expensive machines, which existed after 1982-1983. Since then it's been untouched. Nobody used them. Recently, for example, the Messology Hospital was found in warehouses very large quantities of blankets, sheets and other materials. But otherwise, there were - if you see in previous years - constant orders. It's unbelievable. All of this shows that phenomena and corruption had been established for good. The food was endless and, of course, now it is difficult for some to make diets. And, of course, above all, there was a focus on the dissolution of public health. However, we, who are incapable, at the end of 2016, have a surplus in hospitals, a surplus that exceeds EUR 35 million. It is important to focus on the regulation that allowed the inclusion of two and a half million uninsured people in the National Health System. It is a flagrant regulation, but above all it is necessary and self-evident, because no citizen no longer has access to public health and a large proportion to the medicines he needs, since he has zero participation. You say that this arrangement was before, that it had been legislated by you. The then Minister of Health and the current Vice-President of the New Democracy was then talking about our own legislation, if we remember well, allegedly, so-called regulation, so-called uninsured cover. He then adopted the so - called health ticket. You forget some details, however, in relation to this, namely that it did not cover all uninsured citizens, only two hundred thousand over a period of two years and some very restrictive economic conditions. He put a cap on only three medical visits and had a duration of three months. It did not cover secondary health services, that is hospitalization in public hospitals and much more. We also remember very well that in the bill brought by the previous government on primary health care - and I think it is worth saying it - there was at no point the word 'free' in the text. The then Minister of Health and now Vice-President of the New Democracy said that the idea that has prevailed in Greece over the past twenty years that public means free, is disastrous and we need to change it as quickly as possible. First of all, I would like to say that, unfortunately, there is nothing free in the world, but I ask again, who created this situation? It is also very important and emblematic to regulate debt write-offs for citizens, which are unfortunately many. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want a little tolerance, too. It is therefore foreseen by the provisions of the bill in the first phase to reorder the structure of primary care units by setting up two hundred and thirty-nine local health units in sixty-five urban centres. TEMPUS will be the main unit and core primary care cell and will be the core core of the new system. The TWG development network will cover approximately 30% of the population, while the remaining 70% will be covered by contracts signed by the EEA with private doctors. The TOMY will be the first level of primary care and the second will be health centers, while all structures will be interconnected with hospitals. Here to say two things. There's definitely a great need to dismantle hospitals. Of course there are issues and doubts raised. Why? Because the crisis and the lack of resources over time exist. There is funding for the programme through the ESDP, but we need to be serious and take care from now of the transition to state funding, so that there really is national funds. We also have to say that health centres are lacking today. There is a lack of essential health centres, and this will certainly have to be changed. I'm going through the rules too fast. Things have been said about the family doctor and health care team.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u20	Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u21	I shall conclude immediately, Madam President, with this question: The crucial question when discussing a bill, a reform, is what its political objective is and what the needs of society are to meet. For many years there has been a transfer of public health to the private sector and its incubation. Today, the progressive transformation of society and state passes through substantial support and strengthening of public health. That is what today's bill does, and I think it is a bill, which should be supported from all sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u22	Mr Christos Karayannides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Well, let's get started, because we're between us. After the Sovietisation of health that makes this bill, I see that the House is now Soviet, since opposition has not chosen today to follow the debate. In view of the list of speakers, I think that we have completely become the Soviet Union, because there are twenty-five speakers from SYRIZA and two from the Democratic Reconciliation. The abstention of the Officerial Response to participate in the bill shows that there is no proposal and there is no interest in the MPs from the Officerial Response to propose or make a criticism of the bill. That's the one part. The second part is an overall criticism of the Members' speeches. Most Members come - logically - with written speeches, but I have the impression that they do not read them before they come here to speak. What do I mean? There is yesterday's speech - I got it from the Practicals - MEP of the Elasson Antipolitics, who says, "But we cannot overlook that some of our fellow citizens are concerned that there is a chance that the phenomenon will be repeated to ask those who need dialysis to come with the blood bag in their hand. I mean, haemodialysis is haemodialysis, it's not haemodialysis." That is what Parliamentary Party spokesman said. "The blood bags are not juices to keep the citizens at home and bring them to the hospital." If we want, then, to strangle something, at least to say serious things and not skyline nonsense from the Step of the House and to say things that are actually standing in common sense. The same logic was heard yesterday on the New Democracy side that the National Health System has a lack of funding. I'm sorry, the increase made in 2015, 2016 and 2017 in health funds is a lack of funding? And then before 2015 what was there? We have, he says, and subdued the health system. He said so, a New Democracy MP, and they didn't break the windows to fall on us. Nine thousand recruits and the New Democracy MEP told us that the health system is under-represented. So write the speeches, but at the same time read what these speeches say, because we say spoons from the Step of the House. Let's go down. It was said yesterday as a criticism that this system is a unique patent for the financing of state structures with Community resources. I read: "The JEPs, the Operational Programme for Education, Employment and Vocational Training, the "PSYCHARGO", all of this and much more began with European money and evolved to be financed in a public way." Haven't these been read? Isn't there any argument to tell us where to stand in common sense? Because yesterday the Minister for Health said in detail how the system will be launched, how it will be financed, at the same time creating the TEMPUS, and yet, because they had written speeches - I say again - the Vice-Population MPs simply came and said the written speeches, not following what is called the Step of the House. But our main argument is this and the Minister said it clearly yesterday. The expansion of the public space for us is a deep ideological and political issue. The expansion of the private space on the part of the New Democracy is their ideological issue and that is our disagreement. That disagreement makes us right and left. This disagreement is making us care for the public good and the New Democracy for private interests. To give an example - although several - seven hundred thousand euros have been said at the Drama Hospital - is one of the first hospitals tossed out private cleaners - for the private cleaning plant, three hundred and twenty thousand of them with the contracts that we made in working conditions decent and human, because the private workshop had them in conditions of fame. I can say the same thing will be repeated with the work contracts that we have done for safekeeping. The same will be repeated with the catering, the food, the hospitals. This means that we are not obsessed with the public space, but at least some have to admit what has happened. Is it, or isn't it cheaper than the private workshops we're doing, where everything was being given so far? It is. Is there anyone who can deny it? Oh, no. It's just here that things are said to stay on TV channels at night, in the 20:00 note. So this is our main difference, the expansion of the public space in hospitals, education, and elsewhere we consider things to be of public interest. So there is no answer to that. It says, "Sovietia." I wish, but we have not succeeded yet, because in the Soviet Union health and education was free of charge and there was access for everyone! So that's what they have to say with an argument that contradicts what we're trying to do. There is - he says - freedom to choose doctors. Can I tell you something? Two and a half million uninsured had no freedom to go to a doctor or take medication. So these debts this bill deletes them. We must see this at the end of the day which opposition parties will vote for. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, because I do not want to get far, there is one amendment I would like to support and I ask the Minister to accept it. It is the amendment concerning expenditure incurred by the Ministry of National Defence on the transport of refugees and migrants. The proposed arrangement extends the period of time during which the expenditure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the transport of refugees and migrants shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of Article 74 of Law No.4375/2016, as urgency conditions are still in place to justify the implementation of that arrangement. This regulation will not impose a burden on the State budget, since these amounts are covered by the European Union's funds. That is why I ask the Minister to accept the amendment. In conclusion, I would like to say that this bill creates the TOMY and health sectors, as created by the National Health System. Those who choose not to vote for it choose not to have public health in that country and to live with private interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u24	Please come to Stepma, Mr. Vettas. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Mr. Comrade, I believe you will not leave New Democracy. I would like to believe that you will not leave, because someone must protect Greek society from the catastrophic bill that we bring to Parliament today. Look, we also have an illusion in SYRIZA, which the Greek people do not have. He's taken her out of his mind. He's removed her from his mind. There's no way that we'll find it with New Democracy and PASOK. Forget it! There's no way we can defend the same thing. We also heard in committee yesterday, but also yesterday in plenary, many and serious designations, namely that we are dangerous, that this bill is useless, that it is not necessary, that it is not financed, that it is obviously not, as their rapporteurs have said, abolished and that it has an end date. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, has only a starting date. It cannot have an expiry date, because in order to have an expiry date, this government must change. If you try to change such bills, of course having them as programming statements at the time of the elections, the world will treat you in the same way as in the previous elections. I would say to you this: to be honest to everyone, if you believe that in your powers there are people who have the same view as the leading group in the New Democracy, to table a request for a roll-call vote. But there is one condition. This request is not about co-government, but about you. Everyone here and tell us one by one that you really want this bill not to pass. I shall now turn to a small illustration of what I heard yesterday, looking at Mr Georgiadis, to justify what I said at the outset, namely that we do not match, we cannot find it, we do not have the same goal, we do not have the same direction. So I asked him if he was falling into the head of 300 million euros, whether he would buy Henry Dunnan to put it to the public body, in order to protect the people, society. He answered, 'No, of course.' Some people know better to close than to open health structures. So this bill is about - because people are listening to us and they will tell us that words are nice, but they must understand and - two and a half million people, two and a half million Greeks and Greeks, seventy-five cities and thirty-nine points. I want to know which MEP in Phthiotida, in the Law from which I come, will come to abolish an institution in which every ten thousand people will have a place of quality work in the health sector and will close it down. I also want to know which Members of the New Democracy and PASOK are going to go to their prefectures to close these structures. I'd really like to know. That is why what I told you before is that it would also be fair and honest on your part to the Greek people now clear this view and your position if you were to do so tomorrow. We have heard, of course, other things, such as that there is a deterioration. I bring back the example of my county. Two local health units will be created in Lamia. I heard about degradation. I ask this: is Lamia Hospital going to move away from where it is? Is it going to be a mile? Won't he provide services? Will it not be upgraded through recruitment of staff, by upgrading its equipment? He won't stay there? Is that not going to be the case in every city? So where's the degradation? Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to abuse the time. I will only say this: democracy also supports itself. So does social justice. However, public health has a way of protecting itself by choosing political forces that take it into their hands, opening hospitals and structures, protecting unsafe and not throwing them on the road. So in this way we have also come to what is called 'power' in what is called 'government'. I think we didn't give horns to keep the crumbs in the world, just like you did. In conclusion, I would like to say that this reform will be passed and upgraded. You know, let me say - there's a PASOK representative here - that we finally got to the point of the "branches" of public health and the national health system to defend them and not their political offspring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u26	Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u27	After the jokes of my colleague Mr Vetta, I would like to tell him that the jokes are good. On the defence of the national health system, I have to speak now, Madam President, and thank you for giving me the floor. However, I should like to refer to this subject below, first of all, since I refer to the programme brought by the government, which obviously did not remember all the legislative work that was not in the past three weeks, July and August. The multitude of bills comes before the start of the third evaluation and the installation of the tiles of the troika, the quartet. Obviously, she is afraid of control and is doing well in the way she legislates, but, ladies and gentlemen, do not bring us 'vote' again. On this occasion, we should remember that with all the things you voted on in the second assessment you had an excuse, 'we are voting for them because in the forthcoming decision we will take the final debt regulation'. In fact, here in the Chamber and in the channels you have all talked about - with the Prime Minister first - 'If we do not take the final arrangement, we will be voting against it'. "Tumpeki" from there on! Apart from the fact that there has once again been a postponement of the debate on final regulation, you are not talking about the measures of the 5 billion that you voted for 2018, 2019 and 2020 with this justification, with this justification. One more lie! The characterisation of fraud or delusion seems to be unlike you and admitted that you are liars by the Prime Minister himself. I don't know, do you like the expression "fake people" more? I don't understand. Do you think this crisis is more lenient? But in this time we also have the full disclosure of the goals of the SYRIZA-ANEL leadership. The revelations of Varoufakis and Petrakos, a parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, are, of course, very serious, but they concern the past and will certainly be considered by a committee. I would like, however, for today, for what you are trying to do and for the tertiary education bill and for the primary health care bill to refer to the status quo. You are attempting to set up status structures with the matching of government, party and state, in order to reproduce your power, you, the leading team. That, of course, is the pursuit. What will happen is another matter. This is where Maduro methods don't pass. At one time, before the National Health System and before the PASOK, before the Gennamatas said Mr. Vettas, before the "Fridays of Agerinos", to enter a hospital, into the subtle infrastructure that existed before the sixty prefecture hospitals, university hospitals, the 30 health centers, had to kiss peeping aprons of the parties and agents. Today you are trying to bring in another regiment based on which, first of all, you will no longer appoint an ICP - obviously on party criteria - in these units...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u28	Are you serious now? Are you serious? Is that PASOK's view?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u29	Yeah, yeah, he's serious. We'll get you the evidence, Mr. Manda. Okay? You will, therefore, no PSA - obviously, on the basis of party criteria - and of course, through the party appointed you will try to control and who will go to hospitals, allegedly claiming that this provision was passed many years ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u30	Oh, my goodness and Jesus! Hey, okay!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Mada, hold on, let the speaker deliver what he wants.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u32	No, it was about official structures. You're going to reinstate with another special regime, the situation that existed before 1981. So you defend Laskaris, Mr. Vetta, and that status of old-fashioned, not even of the right. So a colleague, who I think is from Magnesia, said that the National Health System is being complemented. Not at all! It's not a public TOMY system. It's a program. A programme does not complement the public structure. It is a programme that will be funded by the NSRP and can go well and may not go, it may help or not help, but it is not a national system. Far from the municipalities and self-government, which has shown examples of writing in recent years for primary health care. You're only asking for the buildings! I would therefore like to say to my colleague from Magnesia that through publicity we see the Volos Hospital having huge deficiencies and there is a government's indifference to serve it. This has nothing to do with primary health care. Gastrointestinal Clinic is not in the news program, because two and a half years now it's not run by any permanent doctor, only by an adjunct.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u33	And it used to be?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u34	The Paediatric Clinic has only one permanent doctor and in order to substantiately move doctors from nearby areas, such as Lamia, leaving the gaps there. The ORL Clinic also faces a huge problem, since without a permanent doctor it is unable to on-call every day. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Ophthalmological Clinical Clinics are only directed by a permanent doctor and also does not normally keep up. The Psychiatric Clinical, despite the prediction of being staffed by a total of six doctors, operates only with the manager. The Second Pathological Clinic also suffers from shortcomings of permanent staff, but further mention is already made of the serious problems in the logistics infrastructure. Finally, a subject also discussed in the Municipal Council, a subject that has been discussed in the local society, has stopped the approval of new chemo therapy. If that's possible! Thousands of patients were left without the necessary medical care. Ladies and gentlemen, you can no longer invoke the past, because you yourself are already two and a half years old. You must apologise first for what you did. And it doesn't cover you the fact that you say that in September 2015 the Greek people voted for you the second time, so just justify doing this. And so, is your own argument being discredited, "What have the previous ones done for forty years?" Our work is, therefore, obvious, public, resulting from 1981 and after, as PASOK has ruled. We have nothing to do with the others. It is also well known that you are mentioning and promoting today, in order to restore the regime before 1981, that people cannot really have free access and quality health services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u35	Now Mrs. Kozobol has the floor. Here, Mrs. Kozobol, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Madam President. It's been a long time since the last guy was here, as far as I can see. He's embarrassing him, it seems, too. And indeed, what a disdain for the New Democracy colleagues who have just appeared in their seats! And all the literature of these days...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u37	We're here for you! We're here to hear you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u38	Thank you so much! Thank you! I really appreciate it! So all the philosophy about the Soviet state of state that has been heard these days, all the things that the President of the New Democracy said, "I will vote against it, I will abolish this bill, when..." like yesterday's education, is really giving rise to questions. Why does this bill hurt so much? And the answer is one, because the truth is one: it is not that this bill creates a specific structure. That is not the value of this bill. Its value lies in the fact that it changes the philosophy of the patient, the citizen, the whole health system. That's what hurts most. And he spoke earlier, a colleague, about untouched machines. Stateism and the state are only good when we want to sell him things and get the supplies. It is good for the state when we want to get subsidies for our businesses and take them abroad and damage means. Because examples have been mentioned, I will say what I saw yesterday in Manland: in prison there were two huge machines, one surgical furnace and one radiological in gelatins. And when we asked, "does he have surgery? It has a radiologist; the answer was "of course, it has nothing". They were bought twenty years ago, because someone wanted to get a certain commission. Then it was a good state. Then we weren't Soviet. Only in this sense is the state good. Indeed, it is a question of wondering, but the truth, the reality seems, because after a series of legislative initiatives by the Ministry of Health, which healed many pathogens of the past, this draft law, whose value is exactly that, is changing philosophy. It's a personal health system. And you know, as far as that philosophy is concerned, it's not just that it gives the citizen a way out, that there's a unit that's going to be contacted, which gives weight to preventive medicine. There's a lot of the parameters that cut. It's not just the private initiative that people will go out and spend everything else. The citizen understands the power of his vote and the power of the tax he pays, because the taxes go back to him. He's got something to see in both health and education. The client relationship's off. He won't call the MP to get on the O.R. list. There's an objective O.R. List. There is a possibility for him to be indulged without going to the Congressman's door. That's what hurts, that hostage that the citizen was doomed to. This protection of social goods is their right and is an obligation for the state to provide them. The ESS is stabilised, upgraded, upgraded to all grades. He's resurrected, and the private initiative's business is ruined. There is a shift in the primary level of services, in prevention, in the protection of public health. The reform of the ESS has remained unresolved since 1983, that is, what the health centres that were set up at the time had to follow. There was no political will for certain reasons, despite the fact that nineteen attempts have been made since the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, culminating in its last cohabitation that led to the depreciation of public primary care structures and sent three thousand doctors out of the National Health System. Public primary health care is reconstructed in an anthropocentric model of health services. We move from the narrow therapeutic approach to the first time organised culture of prevention, health education and social care. New decentralised structures are being created, the TOMY - it has been said, not to be extended - managed by an interdisciplinary group with emphasis on preventive medicine, school health, vaccination, management of chronic patients, constant and holistic care for the citizen. At the same time, the role of existing care structures is being strengthened. Every citizen, insured or uninsured, will have his own family doctor, his own health counselor, his own electronic file, to have a complete picture of his or her health. The EEA will continue the contracts where necessary. Health visitors, the upgrading of midwives, which can also prevent uterus cancer and offer much more, as we know the contribution they can make in this area of prevention. Reference was made to the deletion of debts. I will not go again, but I would like to make a comment: Mr Mitsotakis himself read us here the circular that uninsured people could be hospitalized without hospitals. But he forgot to read below what he said. He forgot to read the multitude of prerequisites. He forgot to tell us how 28 million people were certified at the DU and 32 million who did not have time to make sure why the SYRIZA government came and made the arrangements in question. The institutional deficit, which has not been addressed in the time of the cows, is therefore dealt with in this bill and the effort will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u39	Thank you to Mrs Kozobol and to the truth of time. Mr. Xydakis has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Madam President. The second bill concerning the second major pillar of democracy and equalisation - we had the education the other day, we have health today - see that it sparks the word of the old bad right, a disgraceless, brutal and shallow. One reason that is against even a tradition of popularity that the Right, the People's Right, had, even when this popularity was expressed as compassion for the subordinate classes. One reason against rationalisation and the disposition of European confrontation, as expressed by the late Doxiadis, who attempted to lay the foundations for a national health system. One reason against democracy and equalisation. A deeply anti-liberal reason in the sense that it opposes and despises all the basic values of social and political liberalism. One reason that is deeply anti-grassy and, in the end, half-man and - you will allow me - a reason for brutality, which considers citizens to be permanently endowed and customers. In many of its elements, the New Democracy, as it has recently seen in this Chamber and in the public opinions of its speech, is an internal and some expressions, by some important officials and within this Chamber, its word is post-fascist. It questions all conquests of democracy over the last two centuries, since the French Revolution. And unfortunately, in this catastrophe of brutality and misanthropy, PASOK follows it, which bloomed on the popularity of post-war Greece, sweated the fruits of the lusts and agony of the Greek people and yes, in 2017 we can make an account and say it offered. He continued the vision of postwar gold thirty years after the war, starting with a conservative health leader, Lord Beveritz in 1943, who said that the British who gave their blood to keep their homeland free, deserves free public health, a hospital and a doctor. I am ignorant - I am talking about the domestic unravelling of social democratic tradition - the conquests in France, Germany, Scandinavia, the European South after. He forgets the tradition of the 1980s with the National Health System. And we see this tradition being received by modernists, neoliberals, all state-run, appointed by soft nails, whose modernism and modernisation is the degradation of education and health, public goods, namely, on which the post-war Europe of peace, prosperity and democracy was built. So we see how traditions, the socialist vision which they have implemented and conservative governments in post-war Europe, are degraded by those who have until recently said that they are social democrats, so that the rest of the PASOK is now a 'washer' of the past and a 'washer' of black money. I would appeal to the scrupulous - because there are also people in this Chamber - to study what is being studied by all the serious analysts and those who are struggling for the future of Europe, the United States, the book of Piketty - there is a Greek translation - to study the book of Branco Milanovic - the world's greatest mind - the first comprehensive study of inequalities, to see how many unscrupulous and brutal people and misannouncements they say have any contact with our own societies, especially in the society of Greece that suffers from the Economic Commission and from bankruptcy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In this setting of brutality and extreme right I'd like to make a few exceptions, of course. They're not all the same. We're not all the same. Last night, Mr. Costas Javaras from New Democracy set up his stature against the vulgarity of a chrysayite and spontaneously few members of SYRIZA applauded him. I think it's a sign of parliamentary behavior. It is a model of democratic ethos for all of us, for those who are listening, for those who are speaking, for those who can conspire to the least common denominator, which is the defence of democracy and the defence of the public field of confrontation with arguments rather than fists and iron fists. Let all of these be heard in this Chamber from now on. As far as the members and friends of the Ministry of Health are concerned, I know that there are difficulties in implementing such a programme in conditions of budgetary suffocation and in conditions of comitology. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thirty seconds, just, Madam President. Thank you. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We know that it is a mortgage to reconstruct social reproduction conditions for Greeks after seven - eight years of defeat, pain and defeat. We know that it is the necessary foundation for equalisation and equality. I hope that society itself, the first beneficiary, will understand the value of this project, of even imperfection, to appreciate the effort and to defend it in the difficult years ahead. I wish the state, in any form, with public officials, in elected - I repeat in whatever form - to support and defend this foundation of democracy and equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr. Xydakis. Now Mr. Kourakis, the first Vice-President, has the floor, who will respectfully keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, I would say that today is a very good time and it is a milestone of the establishment and operation of primary health care. I remember forty years ago, in 1977, the first pan-Central Congress had declared this beginning and had begun a huge struggle, which fortunately thrives today, and this is a very great conquest. Christos Karagiannides earlier in his speech, wanting to contrast the Left with the Right, said that the Left means an extension of the public space, while right is an extension of the private space at all levels of society. I would add that left and right are different and from which social groups they represent and whose interests they express. Our Left, our perception has a class partition and a class mark. How does it turn out? As you know, the debts of uninsured citizens have been waived. They have free access to our care and health system in general two and a half million uninsured fellow citizens. The separation of TEMPUS, local health units, has been chosen by certain criteria that measure socio-economic precariousness. They are areas of urban centres throughout the country where the ERC presents reduced possibilities where there are high unemployment indicators and more effective intervention by the ERC is generally needed. The areas of Western Attica, Piraeus, the areas of the entire region of Piraeus II, Keracini, Korydalos, Perama are characteristic cases of Lefkanopedio. The characteristics of the health system, regardless of the dissolution it has suffered, have remained for so many years since the 1977s. It is a health system centred on the hospital, it is a hospital, it is a health center, and as a result of all this distorting system, customer relations, privatization, even public structures. Because I know this is happening in medicine, in university, too - too many clinics in hospitals in fact are private beds of doctors, university doctors, not all, but too many. It has to go through their office, the patient in order to secure a bed in a public hospital, exceed the surgery list to be able to operate. It has to give the 'Figure'. This is the 'blankie', among all the others, and we don't say it. It has resulted in provoking demand for services, waste and corruption. Many people, in order to respond, had to sell their home, their field. This is the so-called 'destructive health expenditure' expression. With the primary care system, we recognize two concepts. A concept is primary prevention, that is to say, preventing those factors which will come into contact with the individual, the worker and the child so that the disease does not occur. The second concept is secondary prevention, i.e., when it occurs, we have the possibility of early diagnosis. The first may substantially contribute to health education, the cooperation of the Ministry of Health with the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education, so that all students in all classes, from kindergarten to high school, can take all this information, knowledge, lifestyles around very substantial issues that protect health in the future. Secondary prevention is related to the early diagnosis of uterine cancer with the PAP test. From a pressure diagnosed with a pressimeter that can and can prevent a stroke from occurring, you don't know how many intensive care units in hospitals we're getting away with. Alexis Benos, the professor of social medicine, of the primary health care system, had installed such a medicine in Triandria Thessaloniki and told me how many cases of people with sugar and pressure had been discovered who did not know it and how many beds, as I said before, beyond their suffering, had escaped. Are there any reactions to this system? Yes, there are. At social level, I would say that there is a part of the medical world, as I have explained, which does not want to change. There's, you know, one down there. It's the so-called medical conventions that companies do. Doctors make ten and fifteen trips abroad with all costs paid. It's supposed to be conferences. It's medical tourism. All this cost of hundreds of millions is accumulated in the prices of medicines, which are ultimately burdening individuals and insurance funds. This has to end. It's a disgrace really. It is a demolition of doctors, as it is also shameful for too many doctors to accept the company's representative to take control of recipes if so many recipes have been written to get out of the back door black money. This has to stop and it will stop. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] Give me a minute, Madam President, if you'll kindly. Finally, I would say that the existing system has the right to access - and this is a class mark - all citizens have the possibility, regardless of whether they are insured or uninsured, to prevent, treat and rehabilitate afterwards. But this, in order to benefit, wants to communicate with society. It needs a health movement through local bodies and local reasonings. A very important part of this whole strategy is to mobilise the local population through institutions, municipalities and local administrations, as well as collectives, parents' clubs and others. Let us not forget that we have not talked about a second level. In addition to accessing this first level, local health units are the reference system. You're being referred from there to the reference system, from there to the licensed doctors and the labs, and then to the hospital. Do you have the impression that in European countries one can knock on the door and go to the hospital for any problem he is concerned with if he has not been referred by a general doctor, such as the GP in England? That's what we're going to do. For the 85% of the incidents that are currently going to hospitals could have been very well resolved there, before the hospitals, at the units we are talking about, so that the hospitals actually offer high-level care in an uninterrupted manner. Let me make a reference to something that made me a very good impression. Mr. Ministers, we should stick to Mr. Kremastino's position. It was one of the few speeches I heard that was a model of parliamentary morality. He stayed in the bill, criticized where he thought, made proposals to improve it, and he really is a attitude that I welcome and I put forward as I can. For us primary health care is a progressive project where all the left and progressive health workers around the world have fought for it. Health is not the soul of the Left. The value and values of the Left are confirmed in health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Doussina has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Madam President. I heard yesterday from a former politician that the law on higher education that we passed is a political crime. What's that? To be a right to education and not a privilege. To be self-worth education and not to be a merchandise. Helping to create a democratic conscience is a political crime. And all this is said in Greece, in the country of Lambraki, in the country of the multiple political murders, in the country of the junta. I think that, in the traditional Greek sense, those who believe exclusively in private and privatization are idiosyncrasies. So we face two models, two ideological lines that conflict with the country's future. We saw them yesterday and the day before yesterday in education, today in health. They are two versions of social archivalism, namely that humanity is supposedly progressing through uncontrolled individual choices, by cultivating inequalities, by surviving the most powerful. In medical darninism, let me term, we have the survival of the healthiest and richest. Health is a privilege. It belongs to those who have money. The survival of others depends on nature and charity. A Republican politician from Texas in the recent debate in the United States on 'Obamacare' said: 'Where does the idea of being entitled to free health services? From Russia, directly from hell." My father, “the doctor of the poor,” as he was called in Piraeus, friend of the father of Thodoris Dritsa, the pharmacist of Piraeus, did not love England, but he told me, when I was young, that the NHS, the British National Health System, is the best health system in the world, model and may one day be in Greece as well. And that was one of the reasons why I decided to go to England, even though my father wanted me to go to France and be a doctor. I frustrated him, it was the odour! For the creation of the British ESS three things were needed: first, the great overthrow of the 1945 elections, when Churchill won the war and lost by the Workers. Secondly, a strong and visionary leadership. And thirdly, faith in social justice. The famous "Beveritz report" in 1943 and, of course, the charismatic Minister for Health of the Labour Party, Nai Bivan, created a pioneering health system that changed the way of care around the world in 1948. But Bivan faced rabies resistance from the big doctors and colluded with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u45	You've been behind for half a century!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u46	The British Medical Association, the BMA, argued that the state should not have any work with the health system. The independence of the medical profession and the relationship between doctor and patient would be undermined by substituting faith in the patient with obedience to the state. The medical profession was said to be on the front line of defense of freedom against the storm attack by the national socialist state. We have a moral duty to the public and our patients not to retreat. And in a further outbreak of this kind of rhetoric British doctors declared in 1947, that the medical profession would become a collaborative unit in the heart of the free economy. How much do these announcements look like the arguments we heard from the Opposition yesterday, but also from some medical clubs, seventy years later? The Medical Association of Thessaloniki argued that the bill, a left-wing idealization program, copys outdated models that were implemented post-war in the Soviet Union and the West, possibly in Britain. For similar ideas the Medical Association of Athens is also mentioned. But the Cassandras have been denied, and I hope - I am sure - and now the head of the Ministry of Health here in Greece. Because the pioneer doctors and the pioneer politicians have been vindicated and - we hope - and now. The British ESS, free of charge to everyone, was loved by the citizens and the vast majority of doctors. Today, NHS is the British's most popular and favorite institution. Even the right-wing governments, when they reduce funding or when with various structures privatisations are going on, are always apologizing, because they know that a government that deceives the NHS, the British NHS, is not coming out again. Of course, in Brexit's recent referendum, a great reason why the British voted were the wonderful buses that were returning all over Britain, writing in favour of Brexit, "more money to the NHS". So at the heart of NHS is the primary health grade, the family doctor, we say, G.P. and his office, Surgery or the local health unit. Today, 90% of patients' initial access and patient-doctor relationship is made to these health units through family doctors, but, despite 90% of access from there, they only absorb 7.29% of the total NHS budget. The British health system costs per head only 1/3 of what the Americans spend on health services. In other words, it is a good value for money. As my father told me, when being a doctor was a function and on his way, the world said "My doctor", only the family doctor who knows the patient's history, cares about him, understands his needs, can make a proper diagnosis. So that makes the bill, introducing the family doctor who is the G.P.'s analogue. In the United Kingdom, however, there has been a substantial increase in the number of jobless people in the Community. A bill that goes on again in this sense, in the past, at the most brilliant moment of the modern health system. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Madam President. So these are the policies that make health and education a right, regardless of the economic situation and establish institutions for its implementation. Because it is good to say "you have this right and the other right, it is said in this declaration and in this Constitution, etc.", but of course too many rights are rights on paper, it is not in practice. And you need to build institutions, mechanisms and, of course, give resources so that rights can move from paper to practice. The regulatory and real level should begin to convene a little. So that's what the law does today. That's what the law on higher education did yesterday. They represent a vote in the reconstitution of the social state, they represent the great honour of this government and what it will leave for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u47	Madam President, I would like the floor to make a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u48	Mr Paulakis will take the floor in order to make a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u49	As we do not allow anything to fall down, as we have shown, in yesterday's debate on unconstitutionalism because of the amendment No 1203/85 tabled, in the case of the second subparagraph of paragraph 3, we had formulated that expenditure relating to cleaning, feeding and storage services, to legal persons under public and private law, to cover cases where, on the one hand, contractors have blocked the notice of employment contracts for workers working there and, on the other, the Commissioners, the Court of Auditors Parkers do not sign the extensions of contract contracts, so the staff remains unpaid. We checked and put it like this because, as you know, several hospitals, "Papageorgiou", "One", "Red Cross", "Asclipio", etc., because of their past status and how they were built, were private law and we wanted to cover them. We have checked, and we have seen that there is no problem in these hospitals with regard to payment, whether they have done employment contracts or have not been brought before them to block some things. Thus, on this basis, the phrase ‘private law’ is deleted. It remains only for public law, which is the hospitals, which are such that we have the problem with the payment of contracts. So we are tabling this legislative improvement in the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Gasson has the floor for six minutes. Here you go, Mr. Gaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Madam President. I hope the fullness of the footsteps on the right wing of the House is due to the very good speech of my colleague, Mr Dousina, and not to my presence alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u52	Left wings are full.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u53	Left's always full from the beginning.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u54	The right one's folding you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a common remark once again that today, in today's debate, the substance is sacrificed to the destiny of political confrontation, which in many respects is false and is used to justify the injustices of the past and sometimes to strengthen a social reaction, through which - hopefully - social and political change. Primary health care is provided in the context of an integrated and decentralised system organised, managed and operated by the ICES, which is part of the National Health System. At the first level of primary health care services are provided by TOMY, local health establishments, regional hospitals, multi-purpose regional hospitals, special regional medical establishments, local medical establishments. Its own staffing organization is the health centres along with the other structures mentioned above. This means that by establishing and deciding that on each island a health centre will be set up, decentralisation and transfer of responsibilities is carried out in the health field. With the final aim of a decentralised and therefore more flexible system. This is why it can also be more effective in emergency situations, providing immediate assistance where possible, so as to avoid the congestion of hospitals and to be able to focus on their efforts to deal with serious or urgent incidents. We have an example in this case of the earthquake in Kos. And it is publicly worth saying a great boulevard and many congratulations to the whole structure of Kos Hospital that reacted and in ten to twelve hours it served more than two hundred visitors with an organization of distribution, disposal, activation of crossroads. And everything went well. So one can say that the decentralised health system is effective. And the new bill contributes to decentralisation and effectiveness. It also provides for a family doctor, as the colleagues, central diagnostic laboratories, special care centres, dental units in each health centre, a migraine and obstetrics network. Urgent emerges, a critical part of health. There are four hundred and sixty-five recruits for this category. There are also health visitors in primary health care, physiotherapists, etc. I'd like to stay in just two parts of the bill we're discussing today: Article 27 provides for the operation of the General Hospital of Karpathos. It's not ours. We're not saying we arrested or started trying to establish the General Hospital of Karpathos. But where we found it, we're finishing it. And that's a very big deal. The General Hospital of Karpathos "Agios Ioannis the Karpathios" - and this is why it is an offer of the Church that bears the name of Saint John the Karpathos - is administrative and financially self-sufficient in the Second YPE. What does the bill provide for? It provides that by a joint ministerial decision - rather than a presidential decree - of the Minister of Finance, Administrative Reconstruction and Health, following a recommendation from the CSYP, the single organisation and operation framework is defined and established for public primary health service units, as well as the conditions and manner of service, the setting up of posts and any other relevant topics on the basis of criteria of geographical limitations, thus island specificity. What does "slaughter specificity" mean in health matters? A Greek citizen, for example, is - I am not telling you on Agathonisi or on the Small Island - in Patmos, where the health centre is not responsible for all specialties. If a specialty is needed, it does not have the same right, as a citizen of Athens, Thessaloniki, to resort to and find the best doctor or specialist. So insularity wants backup. And the bill takes a step in this direction. I would also like to say that Article 61 recognises legality and compensates the state's extraordinary newspapers from 2014, 2015 and 2016, a debt of the state to compensate for this effort being made in the island country and especially in the major hospitals. It is therefore recognized that the Ministry today demonstrates this great sensitivity. In conclusion, I would like to say that, indeed, the area of activity in health is of enormous economic and social interest. The New Democracy and the mutant in the Democratic PASOK Partnership express consistently and passionately economic interests. We express with passion - and we will insist on this - the social interests, the interests of society. For today's mutated PASOK the vote of this bill is an opportunity to recognise elements that refer to his political history and to be derailed by today's neoliberal deadlocks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, too. I shall now give the floor to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Christo Manda. Mr. Mada, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, Madam President, I would like to begin my position today, as we say. So yesterday, Bernie Sanders, this emblematic figure of the United States Democratic Party, launched a public health campaign for all Americans. A struggle to create a National Health System in the United States, despite the strong reactions of the political and economic establishment, but also a significant part of Americans who still regard health as a benefit to the most successful. I'd be beg a little quiet, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u58	The speaker and the President are asking for a little quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u59	Within twenty-four hours Bernie Sanders got nineteen thousand messages of sympathy in this race he's about to give the United States of America, the most developed country in the world, for a public health system for all American citizens. Second example of this: a few months ago another flagrant figure, Jeremy Corbin in the United Kingdom, gave the election battle on a main issue, with a key issue in his election campaign, which had as the central title: "For the many, not the few", i.e. "For the many, not for the few". He fought for the National Health System for all. Among these, which were the main points of the issues he raised, was a new model of care with emphasis on primary, social and psychiatric care. I say these two examples to point out that anachronistic and ideological are the perceptions of those from this Chamber, but also in the social sphere, who believe that this flagship reform, the change we are trying to make to health in our country, is going back too many years. However, if you look at the Eurobarometer, which has other elements, of course, which we can comment on elsewhere, 20%, the third issue that concerns European citizens is health. I say all this, ladies and gentlemen, because I know very well that our efforts will be a long time, it will be difficult, but I think that at the end of the day and of the years that follow will be implemented and we will have a different - quite different - landscape in the country. It is an effort that is completely synchronised with key separatist lines around the world, which concern between others and the direction of the health system, and particularly the emphasis on primary health care, a public system in primary health care. That's the conflict. There are the dividing lines and not the smart so-called solutions of PPPs or other experiments, in any case, which have failed over time. I want to submit some paperwork to see, ladies and gentlemen, this flagship campaign carried out by Benny Sanders and Jeremy Corbin's health programme. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Mantas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I say this because, I think, these issues have been raised in this Chamber and in the public sphere in general. They have even been put in such a way that I think that almost very easy for us in a public debate - and I think that this has been seen from the debate - to oppose very specific arguments on what deserves, in particular, the Citizens' Opposition. But I also regret to hear from officials from other places defending it. I want to go ahead talking about the arguments that have been heard. I'm gonna try three of these four to deal with counter-problems, and I think I'm gonna convince you. I think that our concern and all of the Greek people is to make it happen. I always say in these things that we should always be concerned and always vigilant. For eighteen or nineteen or twenty times it has been attempted in this country to have primary health care, and we have not been able to do so, particularly in urban centres and to upgrade and any effort that has been made - I do not underestimate at all the efforts made at primary health care - in the countryside. What was the main argument, beyond the argument of anachronism and that you've been back for years? I think I've answered it in modern terms, with what's happening in the world today. Please, open your eyes a little and your field to see what is happening today in the world. I think I've answered that. Some other arguments were as follows: the first was that we were making the reform of primary health care, because it was a Memorandum of Understanding. Very good. Put things on their real basis and say exactly what's going on. In the medium-term programme, which has been agreed with the institutions, there is what the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative said yesterday as a great discovery. So what's there? The imprinting of this reform effort for the coming years in the years of the mid-term, was the result of the negotiation and of our own agenda, that of primary health care, both within and within the financial programme, within and within the medium-term programme. What is the difference which the parliamentary representative has diligently concealed? That the implementation of a primary health care plan can be done in various ways, of course. But we are bringing in a certain way and making a specific choice which is also included in this agreement. We are making a concrete choice in favour of a public primary health care system which is the only one in time and history - it has been demonstrated by many speeches on the part of Members of the House - it can ensure what we call universal coverage of the population in terms of dignity and equality. The second is that it has been said and indeed with extremes that I did not expect it to be said that we are building a party army through this process. Look at how evil a plan it is. We were told by a Member of the Democratic Alliance a moment ago. We'll put our own, three thousand people, scatter them into the urban fabric, and so by controlling access to secondary or higher health care, we'll control the population. Almost an orgyllian plan. It's a plan Orwell couldn't arrest. So a Member of the Democratic Alliance arrested it and revealed it at this meeting. I would like to table and see with coolness the fellow Member and those of my fellow Members who want, the criteria on which the recruitment is to take place. I'm filing it. It is the decision to set molecules and qualifications by industry and specialisation in the recruitment process. It is published in the Official Journal of the Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u60	Are we hiring with European programmes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u61	I've never interrupted you. I want a minute more, Madam President, if I may.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u62	Because of the interruption?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u63	Yeah. Mr. Comrade, you're interrupting my mind. What I would like to say at the same time is that, through this procedure, the network of doctors involved and the procedure by which contracted doctors from the EEAS will, of course, be involved in this system is being reviewed. It is common experience among the citizens that very quickly, early every month, it was covered in these two hundred visits, it was hating, above or below the table and various technical obstacles, and we know that, for access to secondary, if necessary, the qualified doctor, etc. Now there's going to be contracts with family doctors and specialist doctors. Family doctors will operate with a registered population of responsibility in a declared working hours within their medical profession and will be paid per capita, and specialist doctors will be compensated with fixed salary, so that they have specific hours on a daily basis in their medical establishment, which will be for the free access of EEA beneficiaries. This will therefore be the new system. I believe that very quickly it will begin to appear the qualitative difference that this system can bring to primary health care. And I conclude, Madam President, with this. What is the most critical of all this change we're making? The most critical of all is the change of example. We do not just want to add units to the public health system. We do not want to allegedly put an army of three thousand, who in an evil way will control the population. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] We want, in fact, to change the example. And we want to change the example, because there are clear, unfulfilled health needs. I'll tell you some of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Mada, please don't have that much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u65	I shall conclude, Mr President. Children's obesity, the possibility of detecting cancer, especially gynaecological cancer, are such interventions in public health that can only make them a primary health system, which has a different example in its functioning and of course a different quality. So I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is a challenge for all democratic forces and particularly a challenge for the Left, this system, which we are currently bringing to Parliament, to apply and bring another quality to health in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u66	The President of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Fotini Genomes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. "Ladies and honourable Members, the National Health System should be an issue that not only divides, but unites. It is regrettable, but it is true, that the most sensitive area for man was and is an area of conflict between two different perceptions, trade on the one hand and politics on the other with a centre for man, the one that we have been following over the years." George Gennimatas, 1987. That's our deposit. That's what we believe, that's what we've implemented, that's what we're going on. This is what we have done throughout our history, with the creation of the National Health System, with the creation of six university and thirty prefecture hospitals and, of course, a hundred and ninety health centers, with the expansion of EKAB throughout the country, with the establishment of the OKANA, EEAY, with the great reform of e-prescription and, of course, the reform of mental health, leaving behind the horrible images of Leros. These are reforms that have been undermined since the beginning and over time from the right. In particular, the system was effectively abandoned between 2004 and 2009. The debts of EUR 6.2 billion were left, while the waste on the drug and on the sanitary material reached unthinkable heights. At the moment, with strange silence, he is trying to cover the so-called left government. Unfortunately, today, with the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the negative situation continues. Public hospitals are being dismantled, health services are downgraded, patients are suffering, the funding of the EEAS is being reduced and party interventions are becoming a state of affairs at the same time and opaqueness prevails. This situation simply cannot continue. Our aim is to stop the catastrophe, dissolution and deterioration of the National Health System. The problematic functioning of the ESS today has a negative effect on the health of the population and especially on the poorest layers. They are the first to be affected, because they are the ones in need today. And unfortunately, it is not just the situation in the National Health System that creates problems for the Greek citizen. There are equally important problems in relation to the social state. You will allow me here to give you a parentheses, because I consider it my duty to convey to Parliament my shocking experience from yesterday's meeting with the Death Wifes Association "AXIA". We pointed out to you in time, ladies and gentlemen of the government, and ladies and gentlemen, that Article 12 of Law No4387/2016 will create dangerous situations, condemn people in despair and vote against the relevant provisions. Unfortunately, you leave deceased wives, especially women, without pensions or very reduced pensions and break families. You really lead them to despair, to dead end. You condemn young children who today do not even have the opportunity to study and see the danger in front of them if the family had a housing loan, to lose their home. The primary obligation of the state, fundamentally respecting these already afflicted families, is the abolition of the unacceptable and problematic provision for our people. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Here and now, ladies and gentlemen, this must be done to save the price of the political system. If you do not do so, we will shortly take the initiative to table a proposal for a law which abolishes this provision and ensures dignity to the beneficiaries of widow's pensions. And listen, because a lot can be written again, we don't do them a favor and it's not a rupee. Their spouses have paid their contributions for many years, their contributions to the scheme. I therefore call on all Members from all the parties to take a stand on this major social issue. I'm going back to the issue of the National Health System. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, after thirty-five years of operation and the abuse suffered by the ESS, it needs profound changes, on the one hand, in order to respond to rapid scientific and technological developments, on the other hand, in order to meet the new needs of the citizens. I am therefore talking about the regeneration and reconstruction of the National Health System. We need a new public National Health System, which ensures access for all citizens, covers vulnerable population groups and chronic sufferings, burdens prevention, finally provides comprehensive dental care, but in cooperation with clubs and federation, exploits human resources and technology, a system that is sustainable, functional, effective. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today in the House the much-advertised draft law on health care reform by SYRIZANEL. Does such an intervention take place, which will take advantage of the great reform of the creation of the 2011 EEA, but also of the positive steps taken with the organisation of the EERC a few years later? The answer is 'yes' without question. The first steps have already been taken, the new single benefit environment, the existence of an EOPY body that manages resources transparently and evaluates and selects service units, the integration of IKA's primary health services and funds and hospitals with the ESS. These are moves in a positive direction, on which we have to rely from now on. But that's not enough. The modulated reality requires that we move forward with new radical changes. Why, while we have health centers, units of PEDY, municipal health centers, diagnostic centers, specialist doctors, CT, magnetic tomographers and a series of other supplies and means, we do not yet have an integrated human-centered primary health care system. So what should we do? What is the necessary intervention that would be a sure, solid next step? This essential question is in response to our proposals. Create networks involving the units of the National Health System, PEDY, local government and the participating, certified private sector for the provision of primary care for family medicine and prevention. Secondly, the EEAS regulates and guarantees the use of public expenditure with uniform, transparent operating rules, taking advantage of all structures, public and private, based on their cost-quality and continuous evaluation, with the introduction of quality criteria. Thirdly, health centres in all rural and semi-publics and multi-powered health centres in large urban areas. Fourth, family doctor for all citizens with free choice and doctors of specialties in health centres and multi-powered health centres. These are the specific policies and interventions which, for us, the Democratic Integration, had to promote a draft law on primary health care. Ladies and gentlemen, if the government promoted these necessities, we would have no hesitation to support it. Unfortunately, however, the draft law only serves these objectives, first and foremost because it is non-legislative. This is only a communication trick, which is never going to happen. The report by the General Accounting Office of the State is revealing. Whoever hasn't seen her, please, study her. Its implementation is not costly and the necessary resources are not guaranteed. It's an empty shirt. And I'm on my way. What are you actually doing? Instead of taking advantage of the existing structures, improving them, extending them, proclaiming that you will create other things from the beginning, the TOMY, without studies, without spatial planning and - I repeat - without resources, obviously to recruit contractors, by financing the NSRF provisionally - do not forget that - contractors, of course, you will have to leave behind for the next government, which will have to find in every way money to pay and fill gaps when these contracts expire. Is there any plan for the next day? Toys, therefore, at the expense of people and health and, above all, with Community funds, which I hope we will not pay expensively as a country. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, while you make paper designs on primary care structures, health centers are seen. There is an unacceptable situation in them, revealed by the recent investigation by the WTO into sixty-five health centres: dramatic deficiencies in personnel, equipment and materials and funding that are not sufficient to cover basic operating costs. They say attributes: "People lose their lives on the stairs of health centers due to the lack of qualified doctors and the absence of the EKAB." At the same time, the Minister responsible says almost provocatively now that nurses from health centres do not have what to do and knit! According to the survey in thirty municipalities in the country there are no qualified doctors in the public primary care system. In forty-five municipalities there is no cardiologist. In a hundred and fifteen municipalities there is no gynecologist. Seventy-five municipalities have no pediatrician. In short, what are you doing? Close your eyes to the big problems and play communal and customer games at the expense of citizens' health. You are also trying, Mr. Minister, to convert the EEAS from an evaluator and purchaser of quality services to a government accountant and a blind executor of its orders. I repeat and stress: we want a public system. That means the insured doesn't pay. He pays his fund, i.e. EEAY. From there on, the service providers are in the same terms and public and private, certified and controlled, as is the case in all the advanced countries of the European Union, with clear terms and strong control mechanisms to ensure that social security resources and the quality of services to the insured are properly exploited, so as to protect the public from any provoking demand for services, especially for laboratory tests and treatments. We call for the existing structures to be strengthened and for primary health structures to be established, where necessary. It can't be all over the place from the beginning. But we have already talked about the establishment of networks between the National Health System, the National Health System, the Local Government and the contracting private sector structures. It needs national planning, a single one. Because it is not possible, for example, for the Ministry to ignore in its design the existence of four hundred primary doctorates from municipalities throughout the country and start from the beginning to build another parallel structure which does not have the ability to finance and support it. These things are unthinkable. They don't fit and answer the logic. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] It is not possible to ignore investments of millions of euros of self-government. I say, for example, the Municipality of Naples - Sketon in Thessaloniki, the Municipality of Athens, the Municipality of Larissa and so many others, who develop in urban-type health centres. Because it is not possible to create new structures, where there is a public and subordinate or where the private sector has overcompensation - because we also have this image - and at the same time there is nothing in island mountains and border areas, because there is quite simply no planning and spatial planning. Of course, even the doctors' industrial relations are getting worse both in the public and in the EOPY contractors. Finally, I would like to make a point. You are copying Article 5 of Law 4238/2014 for a three-year-old doctor. At least promise that you will implement it in a specific timeframe and that will not be left, once again, words on a card of yours. Ladies and gentlemen, the most important issue is, of course, that of additional resources to upgrade the system. Additional resources may exist in two ways: One is to limit waste, to tackle corruption in the public and private sectors, to rationalise the functioning of the system. This, of course, can be achieved, if there is a political will and a key to doing so, is the EEA. The second concerns the state budget, which, for its resources, presupposes growth, which is impossible with the current government. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the Democratic Reconciliation will not consent and will not contribute to bills that do not concern citizens and their problems, but to the communication appearance of Mr Tsipras in the Thessaloniki Exhibition. That is why these are voted through summary procedures in the summer. We will vote against this bill, beyond all else, from respect for the millions of people who are suffering daily in health services, with our commitment that a real, integrated primary health care system is and will be our priority and will contribute with all our forces in planning and implementing it. I close with two political remarks. There has been a lot of talk lately and the government is being cut off for transparency in the field of health. No problem. Our position is known: Transparency for everyone and everywhere. However, for the SYRIZA - ANEL, the issues of transparency apply only to others, while they are being literally 'hard' all about Mr Tsipras and his ministers, from the tactical and preparatory steps to exit the euro Tsipras - Baroufakis, until the non-issuance of priced medicines and what was done with known contractors - friends and night-time amendments that gave millions. One more word because I've been serious about defence industry and it hurts me. Recently, the newspaper "News", information for direct assignment with high prices of orders for two-night dictators by the HR. The issue must also be investigated for one reason above, because under no circumstances should the Hellenic Defence Systems be involved in the slippery and dangerous fields of the scandals. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased Mr. Tsipras still sees some ridiculous faces around him. I'm not going to introduce glasses, obviously moving on protected routes! In a society where youth is not smiling, Mr. Tsipras, there are not many smiling faces. Does it not say anything to you, does it not touch you that according to a recent survey of “Internationality”, 75% of young people want to leave this country, why do they feel they will live worse than the previous generations? Depression is huge in young people. So let go of the propaganda, let go of the fantasies, let go of polarization and division. The debt for the political system is one for the political world and it is for us all. Solutions to the problems of young people here and now, with regard to dignity and excellence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gennamas. Please, everybody keep the six-minute and the six-minute will be imposed so that we don't go to the five-minute, faster than we've thought of going. Mr. Syrigos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall start with two brief comments. The first is that the difference in political perceptions about things is not bad. When this is an attempt, however, in practice, issues arise. What are these? If you implement a policy that does not have the public health system, but turn to the private sector, to privatise, it weakens the system that is in place and the next one, which has a different perception of things, that is, it is based on a public health system, it comes to fill the gaps for which people are now indicting it. That is the philosophy that may have differentiations, but in practice it produces opposite results and the victim is society. It has been degraded for five years because of a different perception, I am not talking about gods and demons or about demonizing things. However, it must be recognised that what is now coming to address and structure this new system finds these things in front of it. It is therefore unfair for the government to be indicted at the moment on this particular matter. I shall start my speech here before you, putting a thought to your judgment, without wanting to provoke it, just to put it in your judgment, like all the thoughts and suggestions I come and make here. Ladies and gentlemen, the frequent use of Article 100, i.e. anti-constitutionality, is to be feared of destroying it and weakening it. It is made by substance in practice and that offers nothing. I was once told by a very experienced colleague - lawyers already know what I am going to say - that three usual things are always used by lawyers in every case, but, if they are used often, they weaken them. In the bourgeois the vagueness of the application, in the criminals the vagueness of the constitution and in the administrative administrations the unconstitutionality. Don't do it like that. We're weakening her. I am not saying this as a parole or as advice - I do not have such a chance - or because I am wiser or more competent or I draw a right more than the rest of you. I also make it self-criticistic, to show you my good choice. I would like to point out the following in the bill after this brief report. The bill we are discussing contains many useful and beneficial arrangements for the citizen, particularly the citizen who suffers and is entitled to care and retreat. It is for him that health systems exist neither for doctors nor for nurses nor for administration. In this sense, the draft law makes it a focus, i.e. the suffering citizen and the equipment of health staff, it appears that he is doing so for the same reason. This is clear from the first paragraph of Article 1, which concludes: '... the services aimed at monitoring, maintaining and improving human health'. I consider that to be an advantage for another reason that, unfortunately, xenophobic phenomena do not make it self-evident nowadays, man without any discrimination of any type, as our Constitution calls for. In this context, I list in addition to Article 1, which is a general framework, i.e. Article 3, for the public service units, Article 6, for the family doctor, Article 7, Article 8, with the central diagnostic laboratories, Articles 9, 10, 12, 13, 19, 21, 23, which is the establishment of the hospital in Aesthetic Karpathos, Article 28, which provides incentives for the medical staff of the General Hospital of Thera. Two words on this, because I saw that a lot of people stood. This cannot be seen out of Article 32 of the bill, which we voted on and became a state law last week by the Ministry of Interior, which also provides incentives for Otta officials in island and mountainous areas. The arrangements of these two articles are entirely justified and, if you consider them, in the case of Santorini, that Santorini itself recommends Santorini, the image of Greece abroad as a flagship island hosting millions of visitors and that is why it should not be disadvantaged in this area and that it also serves other Cyclades, you will see that they are very beneficial and useful and will help. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The introduction of this provision is not possible because it is an island or a frontier, but because it is Santorini, that is, an autism - there is much talk in our day about this concept - both Greeks and Cycladics and worldwide. Your tolerance, Mr President, just for a minute, to make a little fun of myself. In Syros, opposite the hospital, there is a café, which has the title "better here than across the street", meaning our health. Here I would like to tell you the following about the historic Syros Hospital, which is upgraded daily. I believe that, with this bill, we are looking for a certain amount of health, because the foundations are set for us to feel safe when needed - oh unborn! - to go across the street. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u70	For now, we're here neither across the street nor across the street. For now. Before Mr. Constantopoulos goes to Stepma, the Minister will speak. It would be good for him, too, to listen to the Minister for the amendments. And I say this because the Democratic Alliance has no more speaker to take it into account for his speech. Please, Mr. Xanthi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u71	We have a ministerial amendment, which I think has been distributed to you. I'm just gonna say a few words. It's got two legs. One is an amendment to the composition of a committee provided for by Law 4461, by the National Committee for Rare Diseases. Having changed the European framework, we describe the criteria by which a special scientist may participate in the committee. Secondly, it concerns the recruitment of health workers, health ombudsmen, etc. - in the pre-repeal centres, in the PICKA, through AEMY and what we are proposing is the procedures to be followed for AEMY and which have been applied to the recruitment of staff at the Santorini Hospital. That's the setting. That is the ministerial amendment. As far as Parliament's amendments are concerned, we are accepting them. The amendment with a general number of 1173 and a special number 82, concerning the Institute of Scientific Issues of the Hellenic Dental Federation, the parliamentary amendment with a general number of 1205 and a special number 87, concerning expenditure of the Ministry of National Defence for the Transfer of Refugees and Immigrants, the amendment with a general number of 1206 and a special 88, which is a regulation concerning Hansen disease-reserved, the amendment with a general number of 1208 and a special number of 89, concerning the integration of doctors - there was an unqualifiedness - in the ERM medical profession, the amendment with a general number of 1210 and a special 91 for the granting of a single prescribing prescription to ECHCRs, the amendment with a general number of 1211 and a special number of special exemptions for the allocation of 12ths to ECHCRs and the extension of 10th individual exemptions to ECHCR for the extension of 12th, the extension of the extension of the extension of the extension of the extension of the exemption of the scope of the derogations to ECHCR and of the scope of the exemption to ECHCR and of the exemption to ECHS. We are broadening the scope and adding some hospitals, which have been identified as not being included in the regulation. There are also two parliamentary amendments tabled by colleagues in opposition. One is from Members of the Centroon Association, led by Mr Saridis, who calls for the assistance by two years of the graduation course of doctors who have a PhD. It is something that we need to consult, to integrate it into an overall framework in which it will be discussed in the next few years, in the context of the upgrading of medical education and the way in which the doctors of the ERC are recruited and developed. We keep it as an opinion that we need to consider. It is also Mr Mavrotas' amendment, which deals with the exclusion of 'orphan' medicines and blood derivatives from clawback. It is also a debate pending. We have said that, first of all, we are looking positively at exempting from the clawback of 'orphan' drugs, thereby seeking to ensure that patients suffering from rare diseases are fully covered with these very life-threatening drugs. The patient associations know very well that these drugs have been explicitly excluded from the external filter, which we recently legislated, concerning Europe's countries of reference for inclusion in the positive compensation list and our efforts are those people, who are fewer groups of the population but are entirely dependent on these drugs, to feel the security that the state is doing everything it can to ensure their uninterrupted access to them. It is, however, an amendment which requires study and which will be included in a comprehensive framework of changes in pharmaceutical policy. At the moment we cannot accept it on these terms. We will also consult the pharmaceutical industry and the other stakeholders and I think that in the autumn we will be able to bring forward a more specific proposal. I also want to make a final legislative change, which relates to the amendment on the extension of ancillary staff contracts. There was a gap between the publication of the law and September 30th. We also cover this interim gap.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u72	But you didn't break her.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u73	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u74	This amendment has had a second part.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u75	This is about regulation for other ancillary staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u76	The other staff are about doctors. It covers about fifteen - twenty persons.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that August is the government's favourite month either to call elections or to bring a storm of bills to the House. We are entering a process, looking for the stakeholders to be activated in the summer. And all this because? One reason why everyone wonders what's behind this rush. A feasibility or a communication strategy? You are carrying out a plan for the degradation of the reformist changes and the divisions with a social mark made by the PASOK governments. We lived it yesterday and the day before, when the legislation on education was being discussed, we are living it yesterday and today, which is discussed in the Health Legislation. It's so much your obsession, you don't hear anything. That's why I talked about ears with walls. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill, the establishment of primary care structures can be summarised in a word. Adventure for unpainted waters. The report from the General Accounting Office also confirms the inappropriateness of your proposal. With the inability to implement a single framework to limit the waste that is to be done, to combat corruption, and of course to public real health. General Ministers have been set up by bodies, each being an autonomous health subsystem with independent working conditions, supervised by a different body and financed by different sources. Thus, of course, the health system is leading to a dead end. I should like to say here that it has not been possible to continue important institutional intervention in health by the visionary George Gennamata with Law 1397/83. A law, I would remind you, for the establishment of a national health system of a public nature, by providing health services from the State on an equal footing with all citizens, irrespective of the economic and social situation of each citizen. The great innovation of the law was and remains the establishment of an organised framework for the provision of health services for the countryside, with health centers as decentralised units of hospitals in the county responsible for providing equal primary health care throughout the world. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion of the 1994 Committee of Experts, the members of which were competent teachers, among other things, has proposed a 10-year-old reform programme, supported by the governments concerned, to establish a stable high standard health system in our country. They said, in fact, that it would otherwise be impossible, even if health expenditure increased. Ladies and gentlemen, it has also been sewed in the health sector, where each government cancels any work from the previous government. We are cleared in her report by the committee of firm policies for organising primary care in our country for a decade. Why? To make it work. It is amazing for a citizen of 2017, in view of these reforms that you are proposing today, to read how many interventions have been made in the field of health. Natural interventions which have never been exploited, such as the framework for the functioning of the family doctor, by the provisions of Law 2519/97 which have given particular importance to the development of primary health care by setting up primary health care networks. Despite the ambitions of the legislator, these networks have never been implemented. They have never been completed as did the reform of the public health of the then Minister for Health, Alekos Papadopoulos. Since then primary health care has been left to her fate. Unfortunately, of course, this is not your responsibility. Here the responsibility lies with the governments of New Democracy 2004-2009, and the responsibility is great. We are, however, coming to 2011, where we are moving towards a great change in the government of Andreas Loverdou, PASOK government. EEAY, where the insurance funds were integrated in the health sector, was created. Quality upgrades, universality in health services to all citizens, support for the social state, are among our fundamental principles. The establishment of the ENP in 2014 was an important effort, but it did not follow up, because it was not supported by your Government, Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is doomed to fail. Why? Because it is not part of a supra-party health policy and strategy. It is in vain to vote and vote again in Parliament in this way, a mechanism that works at the expense of primary health care. For doctors, family doctors, for the role of health centers, for the role of multimedicals, such major issues require wider consent. We need a policy of the future and a strategy of realism. Let us see where we can save resources, what modern European trends are. How are we going to adopt them differently? We'll be in the same vicious circle. Minister, I'm finishing up with two reports. The first relates to e-prescription, which I would say was together with the EEAS one of the biggest health reforms. In fact, it was made from own resources without a competition. Started by the OAE, it was extended to HRICA. Let me remind you that at the time, Mr. SYRIZA's ministers were not voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u79	Wait a minute, Mr. Constantopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u80	It was the basis for all policies to be applied to the medicine, even those applied by the current government. Secondly, the functioning of self-government structures providing remarkable primary health care. The sensitivity of each municipal authority is given in this area but is not sufficient. The problem with respect to the other EEA health service providers for their certification and interconnection with municipal hospitals is important. State intervention to complement the existing institutional framework must be done here and now. So do the thing. You rule. Ladies and gentlemen, education and health are pillars of the social state. It makes no sense for the government to look in the past, of course with reasonable degradation, because our bet must be the future of everyone, and there the Democratic Partnership with its positions and proposals shows the way. The bet, Mr. Ministers, it's not yours, it's not ours, it's our country. That's why we have to win it. Because all of us, Ministers, will be judged by the outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Constantopoulos. My colleague Mr Nikolaos Srmalenes has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are voting today on a bill, which is not just emblematic. In today's conditions of crisis and budgetary stability, I consider this to be revolutionary, for what it wants to promote and implement. By about 11:30, the room was monophoned. It was monophone because that was exactly what meant the inability of the Opposition as a whole - only with the prospect of their Heads coming - the ladies and gentlemen who, of course, will follow in a little while - had no arguments to oppose this bill. I would say that the speeches of both the Parliamentary Representative, Mr Economou and the rapporteur, Mr Foyla, are characteristic of what interests they serve in the field of health. So I wish there were thirty other speakers like the two I mentioned, to convince and listen to what the Greek people are, finally, the positions of the New Democracy. As far as PASOK is concerned, I listened carefully to Mrs Gennamata, and I would like to say that in addition to the saying of her late father, who was also one of the founders of the National Health System, all the others were completely contrary to what her father had advocated for an anthropocentric health system. He approximately blew up positions for primary health care, which PASOK never made sure to implement and implement while it was a government. There has been a positive start in the years 1982, 1983, 1984 and so forth, but in the course of the ESS has come to a collapse, particularly in the first five memorandum years this collapse has become holistic. I will not go into the arguments about parties, about the failure to implement the system we propose, and so on, because the arguments have been exhausted. All I want to say is that what party army, colleagues and colleagues? Is it possible to build a party army, when the ADP criteria apply to all recruitments? Where and how far do you think the recruitments made through an APA are customers of the government in any case? Do you want, or do you want, health hires? The nine thousand recruits that were made had to be done, yes or no? Teacher recruitment must be done, yes or no? Recruitment on the islands for which your mayors too are shouting, in the towns, in the municipalities, in the region and in other services of the municipalities, must be done, yes or no? You live in an inherent contradiction. But you say where your people are and you support things and others say here, because your neoliberal concept and the immunity of the famous market are revealed here. With the system that is being voted on today, the foundations for a real National Health System, which had collapsed in previous years, are being re-established. The tax notes of 28 million that were charged against the uninsured who were allegedly covered are deleted, as well as 32 others on the road and had not yet been charged. Now the real coverage of more than two million uninsured people created in your own governments is complete. On the substance, primary health care is founded by the establishment at first stage of two hundred and thirty-seven local health establishments, as well as by the strengthening of health centres, regional hospitals and multi-stakeholder regional hospitals. At first glance, this large section is mainly about cities, the urban population. However, health centres - particularly in island regions and remote regions - are also being strengthened in staffing, but also by extending responsibilities in the dental and maternity sectors. Furthermore, this aid is reflected in the qualifications of doctors, managers and nurses who can possibly be employed by health centres. The incentives for staffing and staying on the islands are also important, as is the effort to quickly cover with other doctors, in the event of resignation, movement, or termination of the term of office of medical staff. It is also important that family doctors may also be involved in the system in particular for remote islands and remote areas. With regard to Article 28 on the Santorini Hospital, Mr Syrigos spoke about this as well - it is indeed an incentive for subsidiary doctors too. It's a hospital that you fought and you fight every day. It improves every day. Installed and the CT scanner is constantly improving the day-to-day provision of services. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me a minute more, Mr President, I'll be done. I would therefore say that, in conjunction with the provision of the Ministry of Interior, which deals with incentives for officials and other servants outside doctors, but also with other specialities, the islands can actually be helped. In conclusion, I would like to say that two and a half years have passed now and we are not speaking in void. I challenge you to compare island with island, what existed in 2014 and what is now, a health centre with a health center, what existed in 2014 and what exists today, a regional medical office with a regional medicine. Come to the Cyclades on all the islands and make a record, tell us what you left and what there is today. Ladies and gentlemen, whoever does not vote for today's bill assumes historical responsibility for Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u83	Please, Mr. Armaclene, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u84	I shall conclude, Mr President. The Democratic Reconciliation - the present PASOK - has not only dismantled any social value, but has chosen a camp, the camp of future - is supposed to - coexist with the New Democracy of Mr Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u85	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u86	Unfortunately, for you the Greek people will not trust you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u87	Mr Ioannis Dessas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President of Parliament. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the provision of health services in times of crisis involves many and many difficulties and obstacles, but it also presents a visionary nature, which we as left-wing government have - and we have - an obligation and a moral commitment to give the Greek people a commitment. Designing philosophical policies is not just the incentive for genuine left-wing government intervention. The implementation of the measure on care and health care for our uninsured citizens, together with other similar support measures for economically weaker citizens, is a moral obligation for us. It is a moral obligation and a critical post in the work of the present government on health. It is a project that our country's economic juncture imposed, a project that gave life to two and a half million uninsured and refugees with the introduction of Law4368/2016. It is a policy that has strengthened this draft law with EUR 28 million for deleting the debts of our uninsured fellow citizens who have been hospitalized and who have been assured in the DUs with a final recipient of the citizen. This should be recognised by the opposition, which is constantly being suspiciously held up, against any government initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply convinced that this draft law seeks to promote important regulations, based on the tradition of a comprehensive system of services equal to access to quality and effective public health work. And he does it strategically for the future. So how can this be done? With the design of primary health care and at the same time the strengthening of the National Health System by legislative measures that enhance the realities, such as reforms in mental health, rationalisation of public procurement through the Health Procurement Authority and the creation of an electronic platform and the establishment of electronic sickness records, with which we leave our political stigma and an important reserve for all patients and health service personnel. It is a well-organised primary health system with its therapeutic arm and rehabilitation, with the help of the health team. So this option is not a consequence of ideological obsession, as many colleagues in the Committees have said, but it is a strategic option with scientific, medical and health criteria, because every national health system, if it does not involve health care, prevention and registration by modern means of the whole range of population morbidity, then on the one hand, no programming can be made, but on the other hand, the therapeutic sector, which will always be economically unpredictable and also uncontrolled. In particular, with our intervention, one could say that we are changing the centre of rotation of the system, that is, from medical center to anthropocentric. The proposed changes and the business sectors in the name of the necessary reforms are therefore considered vital for the public health system itself, which for decades had signs of incomprehensibility from Greek society, as it had been undermined by the government's policies of plundering national funds and separating public money, as they are currently controlled in the Committee of Inquiry into Health, while in the seven years of the crisis its collapse was established in the causes of the horizontal cuts in state sub-financing and lasting austerity even in the most necessary for hospital function. The interventions we are moving forward have at their core the constitutional obligation of the Greek state - Article 21(3) of the Constitution - to prevent the health and care of the citizens of the country as a fundamental human right and of the people living in our country as a basic social asset. There are two serious elements to which we must stand and must be pointed out when discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Health on primary health care. Firstly, it has been proved - or at least it has to be - that too much money has been wasted by the State over the years, without the patient being given similar levels of quality of health services either in the form of over-registration, in the form of either a demand-provoking or over-collecting of consumables. So the anarchist landscape of the supply of health services, which the public has so far, was neither friendly to the recipient of health services nor to the provider of health services nor particularly to the staff of health services. It can therefore be said that the recipient of health services was artificially driven toward the private initiative, in order to disburse money, whether he had it or did not, and often was borrowed to defend the right that the State was legally obliged to grant it. In Law No 1397/1983 on the ESS, public health care was provided for. It's never been applied. That is why we are now coming to supplement what has been for years, while nineteen attempts have been made to improve, it has not gone right. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. It should be noted that the private initiative on the health coverage of the population should be complementary and act in accordance with the rules of operation laid down by the State and not competitively. I don't have any more time. I could say a lot of things as a health worker in the National Health System and white-collared forty years that I have spent. But it is not time to quote it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Iyhan Kara Yusuf has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u90	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating in plenary today the bill on primary health care. Thirty-four years after the establishment of the ESS, the SYRIZA Government comes to complete the reform of health by institutionally completing the National Health System with emphasis on the primary level of services, a level that has been depopulated and shrinked in previous years, with responsibility, of course, of the governments of New Democracy and PASOK. Our aim is to bring citizens to the fore and to provide them with universal access to the health system under conditions of economic crisis. With this bill, the health units of the PES and rural health centres are strengthened, while local health units are established in remote areas. Local health centres will cover both patient health care and the promotion of community health by means of out-of-retrospective actions, prevention and information. In the Rhodope Prefecture, we have the General Hospital of Komotini, the two Health Centers of Jasmou and Soap, the Polypower and Regional Physicians and the PEDY of Komotini. Already for the city of Komotini, four local health units have been provided and we are waiting for their operation in the near future. TEMPUS will, in fact, help the inhabitants in the web of the city where the majority of the residents live in the prefecture. Citizens in any part of Greece will be able to have their own family doctor but also to enjoy dental and maternity care. The family doctor will be responsible for informing and guidance patients in the appropriate healthcare sector, resulting in the decongestion of hospitals and their more efficient functioning. Midwives will be able to prescribe gynecological examinations, thus covering the need for hundreds of women living in areas where there is no gynecologist in the ESS. An important element of the bill is also the widening of public health, recognising that the two-month system for private doctors is neither effective nor sufficient. This bill stipulates that general doctors, doctors, pathologists and pediatricians - operating as family doctors, will be paid on the basis of each individual's population of responsibility, and the other specialities will be provided for the commitment of time to their doctors, so that in a particular daily hours they will receive patients free of charge. The Ministry of Health has prepared the implementation of the bill over the past few months and has planned to ensure the financing of the first local health units, initially from Community funds and then from the state budget. In parallel with the next few days, a call will be launched for the positions of doctors and support staff serving these units. It is extremely important that a large part of the bill can be implemented immediately, while completion of the creation of the ESS took years. To highlight the burden our Government attaches to health, I would like to refer to some of the elements relating to the General Hospital of Komotini, which demonstrate the serious work that is being done quietly and effectively to defend public health. Within the last year, the General Hospital of Komotini has repaid all dues amounting to EUR 6 million and has reduced its operating expenses. At the same time, it has ensured funding for the purchase of modern medical equipment and for the radical renovation of its three surgical rooms. In addition to the financial data, it is important to mention the human resources of the hospital. In the last year he increased his doctors, nurses and subsidiary staff by seventy employees, several of whom under permanent employment. In an effort to curb the mass exit of young graduates abroad, SYRIZA creates jobs in the vulnerable health sector and this bill continues to support our country's scientific potential. The evidence I got from the General Hospital of Komotini is, of course, signed by the commander, who, of course, is not at SYRIZA's party "strat" as they are trying to...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u91	It's out of hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u92	Well done, thank you for correcting me, Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u93	That is the only sure thing that has not been done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u94	It's the only thing that's done, Mr. Economou, and don't twist it, because people don't eat hay. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] After last year's legislative section of the government, with which all our insecure fellow citizens have obtained free access to health structures, SYRIZA is coming to take another step towards the reorganisation of primary health care that provides citizens with an integrated range of anthropocentric care.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u95	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u96	The way you interrupt, gentlemen, show your level. So look in the mirrors and vote with us this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u97	Before Mr Vardakis takes the floor, the Minister will make an intervention, Mr Haritsis, who, by reason of the ESDP, has competence and synergy in the finalisation of the programme. Mr. Haritsis, you have the floor for eight minutes. I won't give you any more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u98	I'm gonna need less than eight minutes. Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the primary health care bill, which is a very important section for public health. It is the biggest health reform since the establishment of the ESS in 1983. It comes, in fact, to finalise the National Health System by creating for the first time integrated primary health structures. At the same time, it changes the philosophy of the system, emphasising the prevention and continuous monitoring of the health of citizens by qualified family doctors and established local health units. It is also - and for us this is very important - the result of wide-ranging democratic consultation with local societies and also introduces the concept of social control into the health system. It is in short a reform that comes to rationalise the system by dismantling the hospitals and reducing the costs in the medium term, while strengthening the services provided. The bill also constitutes a cut-off for one more reason. It has led to greater support for the ERC staff over the last ten years. More than three thousand recruits of doctors and other staff will be made directly in order to serve the two hundred and thirty-nine local health units provided. It is therefore also part of this reform of our Government's overall effort to halt the retreat of new scientists, young researchers abroad, to bring back the so-called Brain Drain. It is therefore a policy which is in contrast to what has been happening so far. Here I will not resist the temptation to respond to a criticism of statism made in this two-day debate, a criticism which, unfortunately, refers to an obsolete, primitive neoliberalism, which has already been overcome by the international debate. Unfortunately, it is also linked to the corresponding debate just a few days ago on the higher education bill, which shows that parts of counter-population do not, unfortunately, monitor international events. I would remind you, therefore, that very recently in Great Britain the great unpopular election success of Jeremy Corbin's workers was based very much on defending the most important public body that is NHS, the National Health System of Great Britain. Similarly, in the United States, where you know that the issue of public health lies very high on the agenda, a few days ago, the effort made to "remove" the reform, which provided for access to the system to tens of millions of unsafe. This attempt, in fact, also creates wider social and political consensus, which goes beyond the Left's limits and even the limits of the progressive space, as has happened in the United States, where even republican Members voted against this'revolution' of the Obama Government reform. You will also allow me to say that this also shows a logic that prevails in the Opposition, which is a sense of retardation of outdated and ultimately minority and internationally neoliberal logic. So I shall now refer to the question of funding. like, just like, and with the reform as a whole, which is the product of exhaustive dialogue and planning, so here in the part of financing this very important reform, we have proceeded through a process of consultation and dialogue with all stakeholders. So we start these first two hundred and nine local health units, having already guaranteed their funding for four years to 75 million euros a year, that is, at a total of EUR 300 million for the next four years. This principle is financed by the ESRB, for the first year from the European Social Fund and for the following year from the Regional Operational Programmes. This is where the question of consultation arises, as all the regional self-government authorities were consulted, so that they could be integrated into this planning. Slowly and gradually expenditure will be more covered by this reform than national resources. Already to start implementing this reform we have committed EUR 126 million from the National Public Investment Programme. This is very important to us. It is not just a fireworks, a rifle in the air - if you like - but it is part of our overall plan to strengthen the social pillar of the ESDP. Very recently we have done something similar in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and the Deputy Minister of State, Mr. Fotou, for the community centres. Very recently, too, we have also made funds available to increase positions in children's stations, as we have very recently, last year, we proceeded with cooperation with the Ministry of Education in ensuring all the necessary funding for the recruitment of assistant teachers on time to open schools in early September for the first time. So, in this case too, we are making sure that this very important reform is financed from the first day, so that it can be carried out unnecessarily. It is very important for us - and this puts, if you like, the big difference in relation to the past - that the design provides for the gradual impairment of European funding, the so-called 'exit strategy', the exit strategy, therefore, from European funds and the gradual gradual increase in funding from national funds. So we do not follow the logic of the past, which has seen too many times about social programmes starting with European funding and when it was finished, these programmes should be left in the air and abandoned. We, through the guarantee of national resources, are moving towards ensuring that this very important reform is implemented over time. At the same time, the resources that will be saved from the other levels of health by means of this reform will be reinvested in the ESS by expanding their capabilities and upgrading their services. Of course, this topical reform is not the only intervention we make in the field of health finance. Both the NSRF and national resources from the Public Investment Programme, we are financing a number of health actions from the construction of new hospitals, such as the Hospital of Chalkida, until the supply of new ambulances and the necessary equipment for hospitals and health centres across the country. Overall in the first two years of the new ESDP, we are implementing health infrastructure projects that exceed EUR 140 million, and in the next few years the implementation through the new Infrastructure Fund, which we created in cooperation with the European Investment Bank, an overall energy upgrade programme for all the hospitals in the country, is progressing. It is also an important reform that will lead to energy savings and reduce the operating costs of hospitals. As you can see, there is also a comprehensive plan at the level of funding for the health sector, with serious preparation and close cooperation with the relevant ministries. In this case with the Ministry of Health that is the policy provider, we create all these necessary infrastructures and we intervene with all the necessary actions to meet the increased needs that have arisen in the crisis. We want to create the social pillar that the Greek economy needs, so that this looting of the social state that has been in recent years is stopped by strong private economic interests. This effort is continuing. Cooperation with the Ministry of Health already bears fruit, and next time we will be happy to implement this rather important reform of our Government, the reform of primary health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u99	Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, I would ask Mr Vardakis, whom I had already announced, to come to Stepma. Immediately afterwards, the Prime Minister will speak. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gennamas referred earlier to the late genome and his work at the Ministry of Health in 1987. I'll agree and say about Andrew Papandreou. What Mrs. Genemas didn't tell us, is what they did from 2002 to 2014 and they rebuild, they really dissolved the health system, a health system that, in fact, tried to build the unmistakable Gennamas, and they restored in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately for the Greek citizen in the last ten to fifteen years at least, the health system has been inextricably intertwined with arbitrary cuts in health coverage, resources that have been looted, gaps in the administration of the services which have led to the substantial collapse of the system, depreciation, depopulation of public health structures. But the worst part of all was that over the years the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK have treated health as a commodity and not as a basic social asset, as a fundamental human right. In no case do we look at the image of the health system, nor do we claim that we have solved or solved at night the problems that have afflicted the national health system for years. We see the wounds that you have, in fact, left and see where the system is lacking, so that we can intervene effectively in the next period. It is now a reality to strengthen the health system once we have taken over the country's governance, with nine thousand people already in service since October 2015 and other recruitments are expected. We are renewing by this bill the term of the auxiliary doctors, the auxiliary staff until 31-12-2018. Our intervention with this bill will play an important role in the reform of primary health care services. We treat health, medicine as valuable public goods. We are establishing fundamental principles, guaranteeing the right to free, universal, equal and non-discriminatory access to public units. The Ministry's bill is an important and socially necessary reform step. This is a political intervention, which has been missing all these years from the health system. Our priority was, is, is and will be a functioning public system with emphasis on public hospitals, in the EKAB, but also on the entire range of health system services, including mental health care of supervised actors such as the CHETHA, the OKANA and other prevention centres. Our design provides for more than four hundred permanent positions of ESS doctors, which will be declared targeted at primary care structures, i.e. civil health centers. For the first time, a government does not hesitate to open the forehead with a very tough system of interests that has its roots deep from the past, of course. You can be sure that these roots will be cut off, because we have the political will, but we also have the courage. We did not hesitate to open an investigation at the scandal party in the field of health, through the parliamentary procedure, and you would be surprised when we have the results. We have taken a collapsed health system because of the inability of your governments, a system which has been unrelentingly looted and we are now able to talk about interventions and reforms that will reconstruct and reconstitute the health system. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, because comments have been made these days about 'black' propaganda, lies, let me give you an example for two minutes to see, indeed, who are today opposed to 'black' propaganda. I want to give an answer, because I am tired of hearing it, about the question of access for uninsured people to health. "Become aware, Mr. Tsipras and colleagues of SYRIZA, you must lie." I will therefore present in the minutes the joint ministerial decision, signed by Mr Stavoura, Mr Vorides, Mr Brutsis, on 28 June 2014, “the insecure Greek citizens and the legitimate residents of the country have full medical care”. It's from the Minutes, Mr. Mitsotakis' words from 3-7-2017, a few days ago. Yesterday: "You guys are unbelievable. In addition, Mr Paulakis has been proud of the committee and he comes to the second part as an article on the allegedly deletion of debts that you have made to uninsured citizens retrospectively. Which is originality, Mr. Polakis! You press on an existing provision, which has been passed by the Samara Government on Georgian Minister. Show me and bring me even a stripe, as you say, or an account with a natural person after April 2014, which concerns a Greek citizen or legally resident in our country, and I will tell you good. You won't even bring one. You are lying."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Fotillas says that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u102	It's your speech, Mr. Fotella, yesterday at the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u103	After April 2014?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u104	That's how you and the Chief of Officership are opposed. But the Greek people who have really, and have poorly oppressed, know that they will pay you with the same currency, because the Greek people do not forget and, as the previous colleague said, they do not eat ham.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u105	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u106	You may not like it, Mr. Bourra, but let me say it. Let go of me. You had speakers to talk, but they're gone today. You have never applied the ministerial decision you insinuated. We are applying this article today, which is why Mrs Gennamas obviously does not vote for it, as she said earlier. What can she vote for? What you imposed on the poor Greek people for his insurance that he didn't have?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u107	Please, Mr. Comrade, close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u108	We therefore support the people's strata, because these people are serving and we are not celebrating because they are very few in front of what we have to do. Because some people will tell us after "you know, it wasn't in June 2014", so I tell you, to know it and stop it, because it offends your own party and the parties. You'll tell me, these are...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u109	You're out of time, Mr. Vardakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u110	On 9-10-2014 admission to a hospital. On 11-10-2014 discharge. For two days EUR 1,358. On 14-7-2014 the same subject. On 15-12-2015. Do you know what's most disgusting of all? That you left families, you bound families in the country, they couldn't travel to their country, they couldn't baptise their children because of these debts in hospitals. This is your social policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u111	Mr. Vardakis, you're closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u112	That's what you blame us for. For criminal errors, you blame us today for the mistakes you committed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u113	Mr. Bardakis, please, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u114	One second, Mr President. One last thing I'll say. You're, really, sad. Of course I will testify, because Mr Fotillas, Mr President, said something.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u115	Yes, he said, but within six. You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u116	I will now deliver to Mr. Polakis the evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u117	Give it to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u118	They will, of course, also be tabled in the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Vardakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u120	No, Mr. Firela, there's no staff. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u121	I ask for a minute's speech on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u122	You're one of the few that you'll have in the end five minutes to talk to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u123	No staff are there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u124	No staff. Please. It was referred to in the minutes of your speech. Alas!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u125	To answer that question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Economou, you're older than me. The rapporteurs in a two-day debate are referred here and there on the two occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u127	He's not a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u128	If he's going to apologize, give him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u129	The names of the rapporteurs are heard so many times. Alas, if they were to take the floor to speak on personal grounds. You haven't been arrogant or anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u130	But this is where he says I'm a liar. Insolent!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u131	The President has the floor, Mr Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, I note the warm climate that prevails, which is not due, I believe, only to the fact that we are close to the rest of the summer for Parliament's work, but also to the fact that we are debating and voting here today on a very important reform, a comprehensive reform in the field of health, despite the differences which, of course, exist. You know, unfortunately, for our parliamentary democracy over the last seven years, there has been a reform with the ideological mark of one side or another, which has been outside the strict framework of the committee and has opened up the possibility of substantial dialogue and confrontation of ideas outside the framework of coercive. You will tell me that this has never happened almost ever, I would say, in the period 2010-2014, not only because it was not claimed by the governments at the time, but also because the memorials to a large extent have been a condensation particularly painful, a certain perception, a neoliberal concept, not only for the economy but also for many aspects of social life. Therefore, there has never been the wish, expectation, and the intention of tabling something else, because in many respects, particularly with regard to health and education, the social sectors, that is, - beyond the budgetary aspect, which are numbered and which need to be taken into account - the core of the memoranda ideology has often coincided with the core of a neoliberal concept, which at least today's leadership - not all the leaderships of the conservative party - are expressing it on substance and overlap, I would say. We are therefore coming today to discuss a comprehensive reform in the field of health, which is, I would say, an institutional supplement to the leading reform, which took place in the 1980s, which concerned the National Health System. I would say that, mutatis mutandis, this reform, for our own data, is also a station along the path of important legislative interventions, which change the country's image for the better. Here, allow me two minutes a more comprehensive report. We are implementing in a very difficult context, there is no doubt about it, but we are taking the step towards a strategic exit plan from the crisis with firm steps. On the part of the economy, confidence has been recovered. The country records positive growth rates. We have successfully returned to the international markets and are in a definite and irrevocable orbit - we believe - ending the period of the memorandum in one year from now. The end of this period, however, is not just a milestone, a date which the government and the citizens of this country must wait for cartoons and, above all, the government to wait for time to pass. The new era for the country has to be built and shaped from now on. We must fight to build the framework of this new era, especially when we have to heal too much wounds. And an organic part of this new era is what we call the'redeployment of the social state', which has been looted in the years in the memorial years and has not been so stable and substantial in previous years, with regard in particular to quality services and to universal and equal terms that these services will be provided to citizens, without any class or income barriers. There has been a very great debate in recent years - and it is still - on the concept of the credibility of the country and the prestige of the country. Usually, the dominant circles in both Europe and Greece have unequivocally linked the concept of the country's credibility, with the will, with the political desire - let me say so - of the Greek governments to obey the requirements of lenders. The pretext, of course, was the adoption of reforms - other than those which were necessary, other than those which were inappropriate, in terms of their hard budgetary nature - but I will present to you today a completely different view, because it has proved that it was not only the credibility and authority of the country - let me say it - of the political will and the extent to which the governments were convinced of creditors' attitudes, but it has proved that the exact return has taken place. There was no greater lack of credibility for the country than this 2010-2014 period, when there was absolutely no reaction, when this Step was heard, that even if the memorials were not there, one should have brought them, when this Step sounded like we had them together, when it was heard that it was a blessing to the Memorandums. But the credibility of a government, a country and a society - I would say - is a function of the ability to defend the dignity of citizens, the possibility of defending the public interest, as a result of democracy, transparency and the will to fight against corruption. Finally, it is also a function of the results you receive at the level of the daily lives of the citizens, whether the level of life is improved or downgraded, whether, that is, the citizens of the country as a whole have access to a number of goods and services, which are guarantees for what we call'solid social reproduction'. In this sense, I would say that universal access to the public health system for those living in this country, regardless of income, social order or origin, is a fundamental principle of Greece, which at least we vision of a Greece of equality and justice. We have repeatedly demonstrated, since the first day we have been on the benches of governance, in unprecedented circumstances, in the hardest, hardest conditions that have been found government in the place since post-Civilisation, and then that we have constantly fought, despite having a country and an economy in debt, an economy in debt, and we have received a country in an international disparity, we have given particular weight to trying to bring this vision of justice and equality closer together, with the resources we have had in the conditions of budgetary suffocation and now budgetary discipline. But it is another thing to share justice with you the resources you have and another to continue the party of interlocutory, squandering public money and insisting on institutional frameworks that favour private interests, for the benefit of a few and at the expense of many. Of course, in terms of health, our care and our concern are to create a system of primary care for all citizens, covering even in crisis conditions - how much easier it would be to design this in conditions of well-being before 2009 - thus covering a timely shortage in the construction of the National Health System, the deficit of a primary care network, which can contribute decisively to the non-violence of two fundamental distortions of the National Health System. Its hospitality, health care and non-existence of a national strategy for prevention and health education. The consequence of these two distortions was to create a landscape for years in the country, which had been degrading the health sector as a whole - and even long before the crisis - a landscape with, unfortunately, two features for Greek citizens. The suffocation of emergency departments in regular external hospitals and the uncontrolled presence of private diagnostic centres, private hospitals and rehabilitation facilities. So this gap in the architecture of the health system is today coming to restore a gap which, in the years of the crisis, the governments of PASOK and of the New Democracy have dealt with it as an opportunity - consciously, I would say, and I can prove it with your statements today, I will do immediately - in order to facilitate particular private interests in the field of health, without any interest in the disastrous consequences that such a policy may have, especially in the period of crisis, to the whole of society. Therefore, it has been organised in recent years and has maintained a status of non-documented scientific medical practice, a provoking demand for examinations, medicines and nursing operations, a transaction with strong interests in health and drug supplies, the lack of mechanisms to control the cost and quality of services, the tolerance and often the cover-up of social criminal phenomena of waste, corruption and exploitation of citizens, of patients who come to the health system. The effects of this practice are fragmented and inconsistent health care, inadequate health prevention and treatment, the negative development of population health indicators, unlike other countries in Europe that invested in primary health care, the expansion of the vital area for private business intervention, particularly in the field of diagnosis and rehabilitation, and, of course, the creation of an extensive area of health poverty in the population, health poverty in Greek society. This situation came to nothing, when the emptiness of primary care, which was covered free of charge by the IKA doctors and later by the EEAY, reached its peak through the constant interventions, solvent interventions, commemorative interventions in the five-year period 2010-2014. So today we are trying both the necessary corrections to the architecture of the National Health System, but also a comprehensive change in the model in the orientation and functioning of the system. We are seeking, in other words, an approach that upgrades early diagnosis and prevention rather than just strengthening the last stage, which is to address the patient's problem. That is precisely what I would say, and the fundamental principle behind the reform that we are voting on today, namely, that, through direct contact with the first level of the health system, the citizen may have the possibility of an early scientific diagnosis, the possibility of avoiding chronic impulses, which are likely to exacerbate an absolutely confrontable health problem, and, of course, of not being forced to address doubtful quality, I would say, and dubiously adequacy diagnostic centres, by paying out of his pocket for examinations, which are very simple and can be given free of charge. Now let me tell you and compare it theoretically. Because it is a good thing when we talk here about interventions relating to the daily life of the citizen, to highlight both our ideological and political differences. I am pleased that we have, on the other hand, a leadership that - I do not hide it - favours us. It favours this ideological controversy and is a good thing for the citizens. Because what I have described to you so far, namely the possibility of equal access to and coverage of the whole population, the possibility of prevention, diagnosis, and not in private diagnostic centres, this is our vision of health. What exactly is yours? Let's see the corresponding vision of the New Democracy. I see here in the first row the health chief and the deputy, two retranslations of the New Democracy. I do not know, of course, if it is the Messie and Nemar level, which is now in the transcript book, but it helps with their statements, that we have a real dialogue and that the opinions are clearly opposed. In order for us all to have an image of what the vengeance of Officerial Response is, especially in the field of health, I will recall the statements by the member of the department from here at the Step that the New Democracy will come and put "h" on those who were recruited under normal procedures, with ASP procedures. The governors who for the first time have been in place by means of an interview procedure, which is essential, open, and not inconsistent with appointments to the "four - two - one" system will therefore put "no". Okay. Fortunately the Greek people will not give you this opportunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u133	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u134	Today I have also seen the Deputy Health Officer come out very clearly - a new translation of the New Democracy - and say: 'It is utopian that the government wants to set up health centres in every city. Instead of creating local primary health units, private hospitals and private doctors could be awarded contracts in order to move money into the economy and create jobs. The way to dismantle public hospitals is to channel patients to private clinics." Yes, sir. That is your opinion. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You're helping us, Mr. Lightla. It's your interview at the 24/7 radio station, if I'm not mistaken. It's the transcript. You can't deny me and you mustn't deny me. Controversy with honesty. We're happy. So you are the party, which is currently clearly and firmly serving private interests in the field of education, in the field of health, in the field of social welfare. We have another perception. We have a perception of equality, of justice, of universality. That's why your Chief can't come here to this Step and report to the citizens of Western Attica. What do you have to say to these people who have been unemployed in the years of the crisis, who have seen their incomes looting in the years of the crisis? You'll have the opportunity to go up and say your opinion. It is a rhetorical question, and I think it is of interest to hear it. So how can you talk about these people, who in the years saw their incomes either zeroed or degraded, their dignity to be lost, and at the same time the party to continue in the field of health? They saw public hospitals sold out. The party of the CEDEFOP and the ‘NOVARTIS’. Nowadays, when we are in a situation of budgetary difficulty in bringing back social care, social protection at levels of dignity, European levels, you are coming and saying that the solution is to channel patients to private clinics. You can't hide. Even if you want, your joy won't let you hide. You say things by their name and we're very pleased about that. The same happened two days ago in the debate here on education. You have fully adopted the modernist and neoliberal concept of Ms Diamantopoulou, which you voted for in the PASOK, New Democracy and LAOS parliament. And you referred to a political crime, because we brought a bill, which allows young people who do not have economic potential to do postgraduate without paying. That's our crime. You are going one step further today in this incredible populism - because this is populism - and you are making a huge issue, you are becoming signifiers of populism, because for you excellence is, if we in the children seven and eight years old our national symbol will only hold it the best ones or not. This is excellence to you. You who have closed schools, which have made our schools not have books and run photocopies by December and without professors, who have made public universities run photocopies and reduced their funding by 40% and which, through your policy, led the vast majority of young scientists outside the country, you are talking about excellence. And you track her there. While for us excellence and assistance to excellence, it is not who will hold the flag at seven or eight years. Because the national symbol is all capable of keeping it and not of distinguishing it, highlighting the standards of tough competition over eight years. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] For us excellence and the opening of a road to excellence are schools to open on time, it is to open up instead of closing libraries, to enable young scientists to stay in the country, by increasing the budget for research to 1% of GDP, while you had shrinked it. It is to give five hundred scholarships to young people with high qualifications and postgraduate studies to stay in the country. It's about trying to set up public education on her feet, because that's what we've been doing all this time. But I come to health and the bill. After an extensive study of all elements, it appears that major deficiencies in primary health care are mainly observed in urban centres. Congestion in hospitals is also caused, with 70% -80% of them being treated by primary care structures. This is why, with today's bill, we are moving forward to the creation of two hundred and thirty-nine local health units in sixty-five urban areas of the country. Each unit has been geographically identified in such a way that it has a population of some ten thousand to twelve thousand, covering the highest number of needs of each city, of each major urban centre. Each local health unit will be made up of ten to twelve staff. It includes three main specialities for doctors, pediatricians, pathologists and general doctors, who will be framed by the necessary nursing and research staff to provide a comprehensive care for individual citizens. This makes it possible to guarantee citizens' access to what we call primary health care. The patient has a constant and constant care. The doctor may have the possibility of continuous patient follow-up and care for the patient’ s progression, thus strengthening the appropriate and timely management of the problem. Many, of course, have rushed to question whether such an extended health plan is possible under budgetary constraints. What those forgetting this criticism, however, is that our government has the political will and the plan to secure the resources that will be directed towards meeting social needs. So we have achieved this programme, which in the first phase will have a four-year duration, mainly covered by Community funds. The objective is gradually to replace the part of European funding from resources entered in the State Budget so that primary care after the end of the four years continues to exist as an integral part of the National Health System. Ladies and gentlemen, between SYRIZA's policy on progressive social policy and the policies of the New Democracy, conservative policy with a neoliberal sign, there are huge ideological, political and practical differences that, as long as this great adventure, the legacy of the memorials, are unfolded into daily confrontation. In the health field, I would say that these differences are even more obvious. The health sector - and it is historically proven - is indicative of how a government perceives its role and its social interests. Our worthy load, our political identity, our own authorities are registered in every of our health interventions. On this occasion, I wish only to make a few points from the many positive points in the draft law. We are moving on to establish another new hospital in our day. The General Hospital of Karpathos, which will cover the provision of primary and secondary health care for all citizens of both Karpathos and the closest islands, is founded. We proceed to staff the emergency departments of the public hospitals with four hundred and sixty-five new specialist posts that we recommend, as these were not provided for in existing hospital agencies. Our aim is to deal effectively with hospital emergency situations and this will be achieved through the development of autonomous administrative and operational emergency departments, which will be managed with doctors specialised in emergency medicine. These recruitments are part of our strategy to tackle the subsidization of the ERC. I would like to remind you that so far they have come to the National Health System since we have undertaken over nine thousand people, doctors, nurses and other paramedical and administrative staff, while the procedures for staffing with an additional nine and a half thousand people are under way in the next period. We are also moving on to extending the term of office of subsidiary doctors and other subsidiary staff, which expired on 30 September. Our aim is to ensure the proper and undisturbed functioning of the hospitals in the country, and that is why all subsidiary staff contracts are extended, while recognising the great work that these people have done, to keep our country's hospitals upright. I would also like to refer to an extremely important intervention, which is one of our most comprehensive concepts in the area of health relations. For us all health employment relationships must be complete and stable both for reasons of legality in the labour market, but also for reasons of respect for those who exercise this function. That is why we are moving forward in converting the working relationships, by concluding full-time contracts for doctors, dentists and pharmacists from the EEA. It understands, therefore, the abyss, which separates us from previous health interventions, only if it compares this initiative with what was brought by Law 4238/2014, when, in its vote on all the permanent and working relationships between the medical and dental staff of the health establishments of the Agency, it was placed on its own initiative and left the health formations of the Agency. That is why, in fact, our differences are very great. That is why we are indeed day by night in the health field. We have received hospitals overcompensated with huge deficiencies even in elementary materials. We managed to house their finances. We now have surplus budgets. We believe that the daily needs, which are difficult needs and complex needs, with dignity. We have received a regime of deliberate depreciation and semi-privation of public hospitals with 5 euro tickets, with a ban on our insecure fellow citizens, even with a high telephone charge in private five-digit call centers, so that the patient can book an appointment. We've reopened the health system to many. We abolished the ticket. We replaced the private call centers with the online dating platform, we opened the system to our insecure fellow citizens. Today we are moving further. Mr. Mitsotakis, welcome to the Chamber. You got into my speech. You're not here long. Now you're here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u135	I've been here sometime. Did you see me now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u136	You got in the middle of my speech and I'm glad. I am pleased to keep you in Athens, I am cutting you off your baths and your holidays, and I keep you here alert, to come and stand up to me on an ideological level. I am very pleased that the people and people are watching our differences. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So you, Mr Mitsotakis, came to this Step here a few days ago and told us once again that we are lying that we have restored access to our insecure fellow citizens. Well, today we are not only restored, but we also erase the debts that you have imposed on all those who have not been able to pay and go to a public hospital. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Instead, for crowns, I would suggest that you, as a minimum act of honesty today, apologize to all of them, one and a half million who have lost access to equal services of general interest and, above all, to health, because they have been unemployed and uninsured and have been humiliating. They were going to a public hospital for a serious incident and you asked them to pay, or you billed them to the tax office. Today, they not only have access but also have the opportunity to live with dignity, with pride, because this means a public health system, which means a universal health and social care system. You claimed that fines do not exist. So today we're erasing them to find out there were and there were a lot of them. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We are, ladies and gentlemen, at a historic juncture for the country. The dynamic recovery of the Greek economy gives an important impetus to our vision, to trying to get out of the crisis and the great adventure of the monuments. We must not forget, however, that the recovery is not only measured in the indicators and statistics of economic sizes, but it is measured in the very living reality, in the daily lives of the citizens. We are working and will continue to work stubbornly, with a plan, so that the welfare of numbers is accompanied by what we call the real welfare of people. Our contributions to work, education, welfare, health prove our commitment to the above principle. The National Representation today has to vote for one - I will repeat - flagship health reform, which will improve the lives of hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens. It is important for both the credibility of the political forces and the prestige of the House that the debates in plenary should not only be made news when difficult measures come here, or when political conflict is exacerbated, but also when reforms come with a clear sign, and I would say clearly the ownership of these reforms, whether they relate to the progressive figure and the ownership of the progressive forces or to the conservatives. I'll close, say this. We're twice proud of bringing this bill now. Because we are doing so in budgetary and comitology conditions. They could all have come to the conditions of growth, prosperity, much earlier. We do it now, and that's why we're proud twice. But we will be even more proud if, in two years' time from today, when this has become a law of the state, it will work in society, it will have understood the value of the citizen in his everyday life, the citizen - who has lost his dignity in the years of crisis, who saw his job being lost, his income shrinking, his dreams being crushed - can then compare and say, "yes, they have fought with honesty and determination and despite the difficulties, they have built infrastructure for our life, our dignity". [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] When others were sharing the clothes of the National Health System to private individuals, when they had a party with the CPRP and NOVARTIS, when they used the "Dynan" to hospitalize themselves there for free and their relatives, when they did all this, came and said that they would end the smuggling of public money, the strand and we would be interested for the ordinary citizen for the first time. We are interested in the citizens and not in the customers of private diagnostic centres, the gentlemen of the New Democracy, for the citizens, for the unemployed, for the low-wage, for the low-wage, for the poor, for the many. This is our pride, this is our vision and we will do so despite the difficulties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Dimitriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u138	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u139	No, you can't. Mr. Dimitriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u140	Do not speak personally, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u141	What staff? Please, we're not co-chairing. I won't say it again in this Chamber, Mr. Georgiadis. Reporting a name is not personal. Most of you are many older than me and I recognize your experience. Woe if you were married, if there's something new, take the floor, not like that. Please, Mr Dimitriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, since the first time we have taken over the country's governance, one of the biggest and most difficult problems we have faced was the collapse of the public health system. - a situation that was echoed by previous governments and served two strategic choices of the then dominant bloc. The first was a pursuit of the domestic establishment and concerned the transfer of huge sums of health expenses from public health to private space. This version presupposed the complete tradition of corruption, the complexity and overcompensation of supplies to what was left of the public health system. The second was serving the required financial adjustment to the lenders, decommissioning and literally throwing half of public health on the road. It is "emble" the act of the neoliberal space, to expel three thousand doctors from primary care into one night only to achieve the budgetary targets required by the lenders, who have meanwhile constantly deteriorated. They had installed a path of economic disaster without a return, where every year the country was losing around EUR 12 billion from GDP, or EUR 60 billion in five years. One realizes that the rescue operation of public health imagined difficult and its improvement was impossible. However, from the first moment we have been committed to the strategy to save the public wealth of structures and democratic, political and social rights, as well as to the strategy to recover the wider public space and thus public health, together with the resolution of supplies. We've had a declared strategic objective since the start. Ensure the right of all citizens to public care and rescue the public health system together with its qualitative upgrading to the services provided. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] Our primary concern in this effort was first and foremost, and then support for secondary health, our hospitals, namely, the support for hospitals from the collapse and the upcoming closure of clinics, which we faced with the recruitment of thousands of doctors, nurses and nurses. At the same time, we increased budget appropriations in 2016 by EUR 700 million and in 2017 by approximately EUR 500 million. The government's decisive breakthrough in the health system is the universal insurance cover for citizens uninsured and uninsured. Nowadays, medicines are prescribed by private pharmacies worth 12m euros and 5m euros laboratory tests, compensated by EEAY for more than a hundred thousand uninsured. In the past there were no laboratory tests and the cost of this pharmaceutical expenditure for that period was up to EUR 1 million per month. That was the cover of all that was provided. But our regulatory framework for this intervention is also the basis for the completion of our forthcoming legislative intervention today, which concerns primary health. Its creation is, therefore, the progressive reform that is evolving and socialising the ESS. The bill provides for the abolition of the ETA and its replacement by a new system at two levels. The first level includes local health establishments the TOMY, regional doctors, multi-powered regional doctors, special doctors and local doctors. This includes health workers in the ESS and also private health providers associated with the EEAS. At the second level, the benefits offered by health centres are included. The TOMYs develop a new model in the National Health System, form family medicine units with emphasis on preventive medicine, school health, constant and holistic care for the citizen. They are the first point of contact of the citizen with the National Health System. Every citizen who is uninsured or insured will have his or her own family doctor, health adviser, responsible for monitoring and managing his or her health problems and will have an individual and electronic record. EEAY will also continue to contribute to private doctors who will provide primary health care. A biomedical team will be set up in each health centre and maternity care will also be upgraded in the ERC. For the first time, the concept of public accountability and social control of these units is introduced. The primary health bill is a change, for example, for the ESS. The responsibility for seeking appropriate health care for each citizen is now assigned to the network that we are building and, therefore, it is collective responsibility. The primary health unit system is anthropocentric and puts the citizen at the centre. This is an intervention, which regulates the scope of competition between the public and private sectors, clearly reflects the main reason for the public health system and the complementarity of the private sector. The bill has an aura of anthropocentric care in a modern democratic system, transparent, participatory and social rewarding. It is both legitimisation and implementation. However, the fact that we have succeeded today in bringing this bill, which consolidates and upgrades public health, justifies our political choice for June 2015. The compromise we have achieved at that time, not only did not lead us - as many would - to universal defeat but enables us to support social rights and public wealth, to remain intact, that is, the core of popular and democratic conquests, to pursue social policies which at that time seemed impossible and some people were looking after any act of resistance. They were characterized by ideological obsessions and left - hand ideals, all those today in this depressing deadlock. But we leave them behind and we will continue to bring them forward to the Greek Parliament - the necessary initiatives of hope and perspective, such as health reforms today, education yesterday, digital policy tomorrow. The reconstruction of the public sector and production goes through these social policies and society upright. The exit from the crisis and the committee is not a technique, it is not a one-way defined by their lenders and willing domestic friends. It is a social and political battle to defend the rights of the people, the public wealth, the public space. It's the battle for the social state...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Demetriades, put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u144	We inspire from this perspective and insist, because we are the ones to take the country out of the crisis, ensuring the social state and public control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, too. Time limits are strict because we have another bill, as you know. So we have to apply strict time limits. Mr. Selchas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, yesterday the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy called the "left of old cutting". You're fine there and you're old cuts, because the new cuts in these benches are, and I mean the same. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the new law on primary health, which instigates a new system of medical care, focusing on the prevention, family medicine and the decongestion of the movement of large hospitals. The great challenge of this project is to be able to offer more decent and effective medical services to the Greek people, despite the enormous health age diseases and the monumental restrictions that have been imposed on us. It is true that public health and, in particular, public primary care are severely understaffed and have been effectively degraded in previous years. The incomplete and fragmented primary care system, which we received from the New Democracy - PASOK government, is trying to cover it with today's legislative initiative. This bill, however, is also the greatest example of the government's social policy aimed at alleviating our weakest fellow citizens. This law is the implementation of our pre-election commitments to develop a national primary health care network across the country based on decentralised neighbourhood health units, health centres, personnel doctors with a particular population of responsibility and the multidisciplinary health group. It does not only ensure equal and, in particular, free access for all citizens to the health system, but introduces the concept of integrated, anthropocentric care, which includes health care, prevention, vaccination and necessary controls, regular medical monitoring of chronic diseases, treatment and rehabilitation. That concludes the great incision made by the government to the health system with the possibility of medical treatment for our insecure fellow citizens. Then we adopted and prioritised the rules of intervention. Today we are supplementing the legislation, in order to widen these possibilities of care, by actually strengthening the National Health System at its base. This is a very important regulation, which has come after a wide debate with the relevant health bodies, the World Health Organisation and the members of the European Commission, which will cover a structural deficit in the health system, which has helped to strengthen the demand for health services, unreasonable prescriptions, waste, corruption and, ultimately, the quality care deficit for citizens. The immediate implementation of the reform is based on European resources and will contribute in particular to changing the philosophy of the health system, with new structures and new scientists. In particular, with the Ministry of Economy synergy, with resources from the European Community Fund of 75 million per year, we have guaranteed the financing of the first two hundred 30 local health units for a four-year period, with an integrated policy of gradual exit from Community funding and a responsibility from the state budget. This financial intervention gives the State the opportunity to move from one system to another, beyond the suffocating financial limits imposed by the financial perspective. I would particularly like to focus on the newly established institution of local health units and the two hundred and nine new primary care structures that will work directly as family medicine units, with the aim of promoting the health of the registered population, the hierarchical advice and, above all, the rapid service of citizens. These structures will be served with a family doctor per two thousand registered adults and a pediatrician per one thousand five hundred children. Thus, for the first time, the concept of effective accountability and the responsibility of doctors and the health team for the particular population is introduced. Every citizen, insured or uninsured, has free access to care services, will have his/her own family doctor, his/her health adviser, the health care officer, and the management of health problems. This will help to create an integrated health service system. It is also important to use private doctors who are enclosed with the EEAS, which are expected to increase by two thousand people. Their scientific presence will be helpful to the extent that they serve needs in areas where public primary health structures are not sufficient. They will also serve uninsured citizens, who have the right to enjoy equal health services with all other citizens. For the first time, so much emphasis is placed on the provision of dentistry services, so that in the health center there is also a dental unit. Another very important provision contained in this draft law, which is our moral obligation to provide for the deletion of debts that had been established in taxi by uninsured citizens, who the years of previous government visited the hospitals... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u147	Time's up, Mr. Selcha.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u148	They are debts secured by tax, which are largely eradicated and relieved by citizens. The defence of the social state, an upgraded and integrated public health system, free access to quality public health services, is the right of all of us. It is our firm aim in this direction that we are moving today. Our supporters in this effort want people who work in the health field with vision, consciousness and, above all, the citizens themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, too. Mr Vassilis Leventis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u150	I should like to welcome the President-in-Office, the Ministers and the ladies and gentlemen. I heard Mr Tsipras saying that he abolished the 5 euro ticket, opened the health system for everyone, for uninsured people, and gave the debts to those who had been charged. This is all very well. Next to them, however, other things have been done. The pensions, which the Prime Minister must not forget, have been cut off. They've got harder criteria for allowances that've downloaded the number of beneficiaries. If I'm not mistaken, that's subtracting from poverty. And there's been a lot of other things that have to be taken into account, because when you look at just one thing - a good thing you do - and you ignore the rest, then you ostracize. And he said that they founded the TOMYs, that there will be three hundred TOMYs across Greece, which will have every TOMY for twelve thousand patients, and this is a primary health presence, and it reduces hospital work, so it's good. So I remembered being in my office the merciful genome, the father of Phophy, who was accidentally visiting him on another subject when he was at the Ministry of Labour. Speaking politically I said to him that PASOK has been ruling so long and has done nothing and said to me: "One of the mistakes I made is that I set up three hundred sixty primary HSH units in Greece and did not accept doctors to go to work." Because wages were low, because taking a doctor to Grevenna or going to Crete to work on it considers it coming out of the possibility of earning more money, being informed etc.. And he continued with this: "And I made this mistake. I founded some primary units, but I had not calculated the reluctance or weakness of doctors and finally remained the buildings." From that huge expense that the then government of Andreas Papandreou had done, the buildings remained. You must remember them. It was about three hundred primary care centres. So he should notice that Mr. Tsipras is not the second one that at some point if I visit him, when he is no longer a Prime Minister, who will say to me: "My lord, I made the same mistake. I founded primary units and had forgotten one another, I had forgotten the other, and expenditure remained, because expenditure is being spent. It's not Chipra's money. It's all in Greece's money. When you set up primary units, you must have renovated the system, reformed it, so that people are willing to serve it. You might keep in mind to do something and society doesn't agree and eventually spend money on the rain. And Andreas Papandreou had made a ship - since my friend Mr. Loverdos is here - to return and provide the islands with emergency care, instead of going with helicopters to carry them. The ship was built, it cost many millions, it stayed a ship and it was sold as a shipwreck. It was a shipwreck, too. It was great that plan to turn a ship to the islands, to have doctors, surgery, to be able to offer care. That's a big plan, and a lot of money was spent there too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u151	And now they do it on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u152	Now they're on a boat? If Tsipras makes a boat and wants to be a shipowner, I don't know. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u153	They are volunteers, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u154	The Central Association is of the opinion that with a simple display of identity someone should enter hospitals. It is simply because we need to reduce expenditure, because it is high expenditure, that we need to introduce private insurance too. In SYRIZA, you may get sores when you hear about private care, because you also have such ideas, but you know that the only way to substantially reduce state health expenditure, without reducing the level of services provided, is to reduce a percentage in the direction of equal quality of health provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u155	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u156	Is that a mistake?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u157	We have the largest proportion of private spending in Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u158	Mr. Madda, I don't know in your party how you appreciate everything, I know that whatever we have, we have a huge and costly state system. In relation to GDP, we have a great deal of public health expenditure, which foreigners say should be reduced. How else will it be reduced? Or lower drugs like you did. You lowered drugs in many and no drugs are written. You also took a list not to take any medications. You are the government that took out a list of unprotected drugs forbidden by doctors. Not everyone can lie and only you can tell the truth. Is this the only place you can tell the truth? You're the only ones who are honest? Mr. Tsipras said he was making reforms in favour of the poor. The government that makes such reforms can cut pensions? Answer me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u159	I told you that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u160	You know, when a tree is saved and the rest of the forest burns and the cocoon tree stays. Please, with this particular attitude and not everybody! Politics is all, it's not specific. It is very wrong for your eyes to share in something that you only think is good, while the whole country is being destroyed. I told you before, the three hundred sixty health centers established by the Gentiles did not work. I told you that Andrew Papandreou's boat didn't work. Have we been chasing anyone for that money that was spent, Mr. Mada? Have we chased anyone? You've done a health committee of inquiry and you imply that the previous ministers were thieves. Wait when your government falls, too, for you to go indictments. That's a loan. Do you think you're the ones who bring in the previous ones for consideration and you're never going to be tested? Unless you're Franco and you'll be ruling forty years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u161	At least!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u162	Unless you're ambitious, Franco.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u163	Franco was a dictator.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u164	I can't talk. This is where dialogue is taking place. Get up on the Step and disprove me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u165	Please! Mr. Mandash's already up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u166	I'll tell you an incident to see how good health is right now, for which you're on your way. He called me a man from Corfu with a hollow she's come down like a melon and he's about to eat him, and he told me he went to the hospital and told him he can't operate immediately, nor is it really urgent. The man, however, couldn't scream - I'm sorry. He went over and over again and came to the conclusion that there, although he doesn't know what's going on, they don't want to operate on him. He called me and said, "Mr. Leventis, is there a doctor to surgery me?" Why can't Corfu do the surgery? I don't get it. Is he lying too? Is he a bad man? He wants to get the tumor out of his belly. What are these things? And he's lying? He's right, and he's telling me things, he's talking about fairy tales? Is that where we're going to get it all? I told the previous health debate that in Zakynthos doctors did not work, they were under hospital dissolution. Wasn't it under dissolution? Then I heard that Mr. Paulakis went to operate in Zakynthos himself, to prove - he says - that he has a personal hospital in Zakynthos. So the complaint was true.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u167	That the hospital isn't dangerous. That's what I tried to prove.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u168	Oh, it's not dangerous for a hospital that the Minister is going to operate, where the Minister arrives to go to surgery! Mr. Polakis, I respect you and I love you, but are you going to operate in Zakynthos? You're going?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u169	The political leadership, Mr President, is responsible for taking the proof of the functioning of the system on its own, when it comes to dealing with para-state, and that is what I have done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u170	They're para-stated in Corfu?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u171	As I say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u172	If they are para-stated everywhere and we accept that view, that everywhere they are para-stated, Mr Polakis, that view is not so beautiful.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u173	Do you know how much surgery has been done after me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u174	There may be circuits of doctors who do not want any surgery to keep their privileges, but this general devotion that everywhere is parastated does not honor you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u175	That's what we went and broke.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u176	The mission of a minister is to find them with the employees concerned and not to renounce them. If the entire Ministerial Council comes here and renounces everyone, please tell me whether the state will operate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u177	He didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u178	What didn't he say? That's what he said. That there are para-states in Zakynthos. Anyway! You opened a topic, the flag thing, the draw. What if a student who doesn't want to get out of this draw comes out, and we'll force him?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u179	Let's get the next one in!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u180	I'm sorry, what's wrong with the present system? I'm also against parades personally to explain. I think all of these fanatics are out of place and time. That's what I think of them. Hellenism is what it is today, not parades, to explain ourselves. Erdogan's doing this. Unless we envy his reputation and mentality. But I'm telling you, what's wrong with you? Is that the big one? How are we going to replace the perfect guy with the payroll? Is that the big one? Solve the problems of the economy. Solve more, let's say "bravo"! You raise a topic that you are creating yourself, unless you are looking for such a disorientation of society, if that is your purpose with councils, parades, amendments, bringing bills of parrot, bills that include all disease and every desire! You say you do it to solve the problems of the world. In other words, anyone who enters the Minister's office tells him something the Minister thinks is fair, makes it an amendment and brings it in. Is that how we solve the problems of the world? The world's problems are being solved by a plan, with study. We don't solve them by knocking on our desk door by anyone. You liked old politicians who accepted - like Rallys and something else, I had these cases - for rumbles and had made a request reception office in Zaloklosta. And that was then government policy. That's why the whole world knows what it thinks about that time. But it's supposed to be 2017 today. I'll tell you what George Rallys had done to my father, whom I appreciated as mild. My father had sanctified twice in the Atlantic, and he didn't want my mother to continue to be a sailor on a boat. After the second time he said: "You got away both times, but now I'm going to get you out of the ships." And we took him to the then CEC to work. And he was a Chef commander.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u181	General.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u182	Well done, General. So, what's this general doing? After my father worked five to six months there at the C.E.C., one of his days comes paper that he gets fired. My father was one of the most conscientious, headed down with such a family, with four children, destroyed by the Germans, in Kalamata had come. My father used to have been devastated and destroyed because the Germans set fire. While they were taking peanut and rice while it was in the Occupation, they set fire away and was destroyed. Then he goes to the Quechea and says to him: “What is going on? Why did you fire me? I'm the most consistent worker. Nor do I deal with others, nor do I know anyone." So it says Queches that he came from Rally's office a forty - eight - person painting to put them in, and because I can't get others, I accidentally removed and it was your name. So he goes in the same afternoon to Rally's office, he goes in and says, "I want to tell you something" - he accepted it in his honor - "You fired me." He says: 'From where?' ‘From the TEC. A paper came with your own forty - eight new ones to replace forty - eight employees. He says, "Actually, we had a list of people who have to work." “Yes, but you got out of work people who have more need to work than they do. I have four children." Rallis stood up and said: "This political system must change. I didn't intend against you, Mr. Leventis. I did it mechanically. I asked for some to be replaced and someone else to come in. Quechas made the choice."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u183	Is he still here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u184	No, it didn't, because the whole order had to be withdrawn. He didn't stay. In any case, he went to the Scaramaga shipyard and worked on a job that was not high-paid, but was stable. He was on Niarch. Niarchus had a Drakopoulos, his nephew, as director, and even though he was a capitalist and had the interests of the employer, if the old man - Apostle Leventis asked for an advance payment from the next wage for the children’s pencils, Drakopoulos gave it to him. This does not mean, of course, that he has given more or that he has given the same. A decision has been made by the Marios Ice that when a company does not pay the employees, it is not declared to be a unilateral loss, because then all workers will be entitled to compensation and because companies are unable to compensate if they are ready to die, they will be forced to go bankrupt. And when it becomes bankrupt and someone else takes over the company, it only takes over its assets. She doesn't take her passive hand, so the workers will never get the money. Some of this Chamber, parties and newspapers said: "Oh, that's bad. The worker must be able to receive his allowance." But how? From a company that doesn't exist that has gone bankrupt? The only thing that's gonna make such a team move from the employees is to shut down the company. Another success cannot be achieved by a dying company that has no capital. The "MEGA" has 30 million in the bank, but it owes 200 and the bank in the name of the 200 million it owes does not release 30 million. So the workers aren't paid. If these workers make such a one-sided self-intelligence move, where will they get money? It'll just go bankrupt "MEGA" and they'll never get anything. We must be careful, therefore, because when the worker is protected more than the country can protect him, then we are destroying him. As long as I tell you, Perama worked twenty-three thousand workers. The cuts went up, and now they're working, at the most, five hundred. That is what we have achieved by raising the wages. Papariga was saying to give to the worker, I don't know how many thousands. I want to say double, but Papariga will come and give it up. I say we put it for a week, Prime Minister, see how many will increase wages and how many companies will remain open. So the political problem in Greece is complex. You're saying you're improving health. I tell you that the first time elections are held and a new government comes, the law you are voting on today will fly into the basket of unusables to bring another one. The same was stated for education. So, what's this room doing? Legislation for a quarter, four months? Aren't we respecting at least our time? To respect our time, ladies and gentlemen. I told Mr. Spirtzi about the tolls. I went to the Hood the other day. There are people who, to go to their mother or to their work, pay twice for five miles. So I said to Mr Spiritzis: 'The provision of services for a kilometre of distance to the place of residence or proceeded immediately to the kilometric charge, because society cannot stand'. Unless you have time, why do you want to serve the contractors you complained about. Didn't Mr. Spirji know? Should I come to the Step to explain? And it is not only the Ororos, it also happens in Pieria, which occurs in four or five parts of the national road. So we built roads to move ghosts and people unable to drive their vehicles? Is that what we've achieved? That's the way we want progress? Be careful, ladies and gentlemen, a lot of governments have been through from this Chamber. The government has always made a mistake. They forgot they were on deadline. And forgetting as a government that you're on deadline is arrogant. Please never forget it in what you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, too. Mr. Excellency has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, today we overthrowded media constants saying that there are no news in August. And yet, the restructuring and regeneration of primary health care, the out-of-court compromise that has been opened today, confirm that there are news and indeed good news. Ladies and gentlemen, you pass the hospital gates to the emergency services with angina symptoms or intense abdominal pain and your staff will give you first aid. It's just the same as getting in a supermarket in a hurry and asking the officer on the meats to cut off a mosquito! You're entering a hospital with severe respiratory insufficiency and your doctor is performing tracheotomy? It's the same thing as asking the supermarket employee to cut off a watermelon in the middle. Incident and one, incision and the other! Supermarket business, business and hospital! Occupational doctor, client and consumer. Medical activity. This is the New Democracy's philosophy of health. We were told by the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Adonis Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u187	Thanks for the promotion!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u188	She wanted to say "skidow".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u189	If you have to buy, live, if not, we're sorry! Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, it is time you got serious. The talent in the shadow theatre has unfolded it with the above in recent times. But you're tired. The challenge of today's bill is the health of the Greek people. You don't get one more show. I have listened very carefully to your representatives in this debate. I do not want to reduce the value of Mr Fotilla and Mr Economou, two politicians from transfer. But I wonder where the health ministers you have had so far to show the work you have done on health in previous years. Two words are a number of colleagues: a craving place. That's what you delivered. A well-balanced health system. Two and a half million Greeks uninsured have no access to the health system. Where do you draw so much nerve from? You, New Democracy and PASOK, didn't you fly out in one night three thousand qualified doctors and break down the structures of primary health? You of the Samara government - Venizelou didn't blow up health services? What do you say to the insurers now being examined and treated for free? What do you say to the unemployed doctors and the nursing staff we hired? What will you find to say to the three thousand to be recruited in the TWGs, by means of a call for positions and under the supervision of the AACC? What about the EKRD that we are running every day despite the individual problems it presents? What are you going to say about the ICUs that we opened up and the hospitals that we operated? But of course you will. You always find something to say. In words, you're inappropriate. But you're in vain. There are exams that reveal a complication, remulsions and lissverica over your days. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, the word 'dream' has migrated because of you, but it has so far been. It's not washing anything away for you. They don't launder either obedient parrots in the media or the beloved leadership of the WTO. It is such a cursor of the WTO that has come to bring us a post of the British newspaper "GUARDIAN" for the lousy image of the ESS, except that the post was not today, it was 2012. We know who they ruled at that time. That's so much talk. This is where the numbers and actions speak. But people who, slowly but constantly, are beginning to feel citizens in a country of isology, in a country that doesn't kill horses when they grow old, in a country where everyone has the right to access health, in a country where the bag is being persecuted, in a country that no longer forces women into caesarean. The New Democracy and the PASOK are afraid that the public will be able to implement its obligation to ensure equal and universal health services and to block or remove private interests that plunge the health sector from the public fund. We introduce local health units into the bill, the basic cell of public free universal health coverage of the population. In the initial phase, we import two hundred and thirty nine units. These together with health centres are the local primary health care network that provides quality services. With the institution of the family doctor, we ensure constant monitoring and care of the health of the population, while gradually stopping the trend of easy and pointless prescribing. The citizen has the right to choose his or her family doctor, who can navigate the person to the ESS through reference. The multidisciplinary group of TOMY is there not only to deal with the disease, but also to prevent the community, to provide social information and support. It is there to cooperate with other bodies and services, to address social marginalisation, environmental degradation and unhealthy living problems...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u190	Your Excellency, finish. Time's up! It's an eggy news, too. Time's up!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u191	I shall conclude, Mr President. He's there for every issue of public health. The system that we are inaugurating is not - and we do not want it to be - an ambulance, such as what the neo-democrats are advertising, that is, a system of patient production, but anthropocentric. The neoliberal farts of New Democracy are not going to stop us!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u192	Your Excellency, please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u193	For us public health and public education - I conclude - which we voted on two days ago are pillars of a society of people and citizens, not of a society of customers and consumers. The philosophy of the New Democracy 'homo homini lupus' will not pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, too. The floor is held by the Chief of Officer's Representation, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u195	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I imagine that there is no human being in this Chamber who disagrees with the observation that the country needs a reliable and effective primary health and care system. The big question, which we have to answer today, is what is the most effective way to provide citizens with universal free primary health. And we are discussing today a bill in which the way the government operates is fully mirrored, but also the ideological core that governs all your recent political options, namely those that move outside the suffocating framework of the memoranda, which you have tried to sign. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] It is a draft law on public primary health, which is rough, unrealistic and does not really address the needs of society. I noticed from Mr Tsipras' speech, which lasted more than thirty minutes, that he spent a few minutes of his position at the core of the bill, to what is exactly what you are going to make. And above all, it is a bill which once again expresses your insistence to divide society, confronting the private sector with the public sector. We have also seen this in the recent draft law on education today in the intervention you are enacting for primary health. What exactly, Minister, is it what you are baptising reform? I will tell you what it is: the unreasonable financial burden on citizens through a system which actually restricts their free choices in primary health. And it is also a piece of legislation, which - for reasons I fully understand - does not go on with important reforms that have taken place in the field of primary health by previous governments. I will mention, for example, L.4238 of February 2014, to which Mr. Tsipras referred and who defined our own perception of how primary health care works. But I will also make a special reference to Article 5. Article 5 of the law, Minister, established the institution of the family doctor. You have had full legislative authority to go ahead with this important innovation. Why didn't you? I believe that you did not do so because, in paragraph 4 of Article 5, the doctor is an acquainted doctor unless he is already working in a structure of the EMS. In other words, the system that we had built was a system which provided for harmonious cooperation between the public and the private sectors. And that's something that really bothers you deeply. So what do you replace it with? With a large, heavy, pharaonic - I dare say - structure, which - in our view - is unnecessary. And the most impressive thing is that, once again in this Chamber, you are acting with no sense of budgetary responsibility at all, without costing and without a sense of real resistance to our economy. And it is something that once again proves the bad political position in which you have come. You add, ladies and gentlemen, to SYRIZA and ANEL additional burdens that our country today cannot raise, with the sole purpose of creating political customers. If I had to summarise the bill in a phrase, I would say "many new recruitments in unnecessarily unnecessarily structured structures". This is the main feature of the bill we are discussing today. I have told you many times, I repeat today: division is not a solution, and clientele policies have died, social and professional groups know that ultimately we all have a common interest in getting out of the crisis, and that will only happen if we are united. I will also tell you that the logic that you enter into your bill is a logic that is completely outdated by developments themselves. In all the serious countries of the world, public services - look, public services - are not necessarily provided by public officials. It's the state and the government. And everyone knows today that public services can and must be provided by the private sector, but always, on a basic condition, that we have cost savings and that there is constant and effective control of the results produced and the costs. I will return to this issue, to see how you understand and how we have the issue of cost control when these services are provided by the private sector. So everyone realizes that, all except you. You are creating without any plan many new structures in primary health, for which I have serious doubts that they will ultimately improve the services provided to the citizens. You know, in our country today we have several public primary health care structures, in fact - I saw an analysis - more than many other European countries. I have to tell you, too, that some of these structures are operating really exceptionally. Let me briefly quote a recent experience I had from the visit I made to Mani and specifically to the Areopolitan. I visited a health centre in Areopoli, which is head of - and I would like to mention his name because he is a worthy and great civil servant - Mr Marios. It is a health centre that was exemplary, with much less staff than you judged the need for health centers, with dedicated officials, with a sense of duty, with accounting data, which I have had the opportunity to see, with an extremely low percentage of stays from the primary health center in hospitals, below 2%. So the health center has done its main task, which is to provide primary care services and not just be used as a center, where patients will be transferred from the health center to the hospital. Your concern, Minister, should be how you replicate such successful structures throughout the country, not how you add new ones. Two hundred and thirty-nine TOMY, new structures in sixty-five urban centers, but covering only 30% of the population and not taking into account specific geographical characteristics. How many workers, then, Minister? I ask you why the Prime Minister does not honour us with his presence in today's debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u196	He was here, but he left because he had a date.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u197	Yes, sir. Okay. I imagine he doesn't know the issues in great detail, so I'm asking you and because his mathematics is also a little distorted. With your mathematics that three thousand employees only need three thousand employees for the TMGs, of which a thousand three hundred doctors, the cost is about 80 million euros. But there is another question here: How many municipalities do not have health centres, Minister, which you will be building? According to our data, about ninety. Multiple ninety forty - five workers in every health center you will make and another four thousand recruits arise for health centres in those municipalities that do not have. You're telling us you're going to finish the first phase with three thousand recruits. Nor do you know how many recruitments are needed to implement your proposal. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr. Tsipras, although an engineer, with numbers, you know, doesn't do very well. And of course I am not talking about the total cost of your proposal, if you consider that in order to fully implement this TEMPUS pharaonic network, which you want to implement, it will be necessary for the seven hundred units. This means an annual cost of EUR 300 to EUR 400 million. Add it and understand how many hires we're talking about, because that's where the cigarette is. But of course, we have the magic solution! The money will be found from European resources, which of course are also finite. They could be used for other purposes or for health actions with more important added value. Instead, European funds are being used up once again on the payroll of civil servants. Of course we know that and you know it very well too, but you have not given any response and Mr Tsipras did not give a reply either, these resources have an end date. European resources are development resources and not to provide for infinite funding for the client state that is going to build the present - SYRIZA. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So how long can we sustain such a costly and irrational system? And the question is crucial, because in the short term, when European funds are exhausted, the citizen will need to bear the cost of these uncompromising structures with taxes, the many taxes he is already paying, and even though he will not have the freedom to choose the doctor he trusts and who is now a collaborative doctor of the EEA. Of course, the public will be punished by a number of officials and the way in which they will be recruited is questioned and whether the criteria will be truly pragmatic. Known the fabrics you set: Officials you want to convert to SYRIZA hostages to blackmail their vote. I have listened with particular interest to Prime Minister Tsipras referring to the electronic platform, which replaces - as Mr Tsipras has already said - the telephone centres to close an appointment in the primary health system. When you write these things to Mr. Tsipras, because he does not know them, at least make sure you give him the exact information. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I would aside the fact that this morning, when I opened the TV, I saw an ad for '14884'. I imagined you'd already abolished it. I sought evidence from curiosity. How many dates in total, Minister, have they been closed since the first January 2017 in the existing primary health system at the PEDY? Do you know the number? Let me tell you: 3.584.143 appointments. That's all closed up. How much have been booked with the online platform? Do you know, Minister, how many were closed? So let me tell you: 106.688. Stop mocking the civilians! And then you're sad when we call you liars! You're either lying or not relevant. One of the two. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I will not go any further on the issues of the bill. We will have the opportunity to present our overall proposal for public health in the autumn and, of course, to cover the neural sector of primary care in great detail. I will only stand on two points, in response to what Mr Tsipras said to us, that you are the ones fighting the dialogue party which others had set up in cooperation with the private sector, which was oversimplifying health services purchased by EEAS without any control at all. I have here a ministerial decision with FEC 28 July 2017, signed by Mr. Paulakis. I would like the Minister's answer on this. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It is a suspicious ministerial decision, which causes the insured and harms the EEAS, and finally it is a decision that shows how you actually understand the exercise of public authority. Many crowns in favour of transparency, but in practice you close your eyes to all kinds of corruption and promote businesses operating outside the framework at the expense of the EEAS and its insured. I would like to explain that the previous leaderships of the Ministry of Health over the previous governments had rushed to protect the EOPY precisely from this phenomenon, which you described, the overestimates, the clinics that received a lot more patients than they could accommodate, in other words, those who were actually stealing the state through the EEA. Indeed, there were many of them. Penalties were imposed. These sentences were also accepted by previous ministers, Mr. Demopoulou, Mr. Kurublis. And suddenly on 28 July Mr Paulakis decided to abolish these penalties. Why? Why do you acquit them? Who benefit and what notes do you pay back and to whom? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Make as many gestures as you want, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u198	You won't leave as soon as you speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u199	I'll go whenever I want! You won't tell me what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u200	You won't leave as soon as you speak. This is where they made you the funeral.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u201	Minister, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u202	Do this elsewhere, not me. We have tried to put order and have selected pilots from five renowned international audit firms to carry out audits. Indeed, these checks have achieved significant savings of EUR tens of million. We put brakes in this way to unreasonable excesses by means of strict sanctions and controls, by rewarding those that are consistent and punishing them, who were rich at the expense of the Greek taxpayer and of the EEA. Instead of continuing this effective action and saving tens of millions of EOPY, you have devalued the process. You have actually benefited the offenders and opened the way to new unacceptable excesses at the expense of the EEA and the taxpayers. I would very much like Mr Tsipras to be here and to answer what I say to him. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Of course, you also tried to do so with the infamous amendment concerning the CEDEFOP, in which you wanted to legitimise expenditure that had been denounced and controlled by the Corruption Prosecutor. In fact, you are so amateurs who have revealed yourself, because in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, the CEDEFOP is mentioned. You have not even been able to do so. You corrected it, of course. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I am presenting the report in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You have tried to legitimize a number of expenditures. But when we caught you 'with the sprout on your back', you brought a corrigendum to remove the term 'private legal persons' from the relevant regulation and not to take over the regulation as a whole. But here there are a number of questions: What are the awards that have been made? How many are there after all? How much money was directly allocated? How many companies did they get these assignments? Who put his signature on and with what authority? I look forward to the relevant information with great interest. I should like to close, ladies and gentlemen, with the following remarks: The government of the perpetrators from today's debate, Mrs Tsipras, continues to be poor and insulting the Greek society. We had a great debate yesterday on education and higher education. You haven't learned anything. You don't just take the country back, but you take her anywhere. You take it, in fact, where there is no incentive to become better, where the effort to make progress is not recognised but devalued in the most critical environment in schools. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the President of the New Democracy is ringing.]] The masters will no longer be signifiers, according to the education tradition of this country. The signifier, according to your own government, will be chosen by a draw, that is, his choice will be a matter of luck. Look, the fact that you are being bothered by the good students we knew since the beginning of your government, when your chosen Minister of Education had opened up an ideological front with excellence. Have you put Greece toward you trying for the best? Why? Why are you being bothered, after all, by those who do it? Why does it bother you that there are new children with dreams and goals? He who holds the flag doesn't do it by motive, but the flag is offered to him as a reward for the effort he's made. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] Really, what do Annells say about all this? You're putting the chair over the honorary? In fact, where is Mr Kammenos all this week of dense legislative work to tell us his opinion and whether he agrees with all the good things you're doing? [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] I think the Prime Minister has transferred his irritation to SYRIZA's colleagues too. I get it, because... You don't have a vision for the country. You don't have any inhibitions. You do not have the basic sense of democratic responsibility in exercising power. This, unfortunately, occurs in every direction. On this occasion, why do you not condemn, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, everything that is happening in Venezuela these days? Isn't that a coup called what Mr. Maduro does? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But, of course, Mr Madour, Mr Xanthi and Mr Polakis are the same person you wanted to meet in order to support you in your plan to get out of the Eurozone. Is that the real reason why you object to the imposition of sanctions by the European Union? Is there anything you're afraid of? Are you afraid to go against Mr Madour's regime, why are you afraid of what they know and publicly can say about the understandings you have tried to make with them? But don't be afraid. We will learn all this in the Committee of Inquiry that the New Democracy will do with the other parties, to find out not only what happened in 2015, but also in 2013 and 2014. We will all be here to listen very carefully to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, I want my dentistry now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u204	Mr President, Mr Mitsotakis, before you go, I would like to say something about what you said that the Prime Minister is not here, that he was absent, etc. I must tell you that as soon as he finished his speech, you left and did not say that you were going to speak at some point. Mr. Leventis spoke, so he reasonably thought he could be absent and left. It's not related.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u205	The Prime Minister judged the President of Officerial Representation because he was not present without informing anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u206	What are you, and you say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u207	It's not the President-in-Office's job to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u208	Please, be quiet. The Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Paulakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. I'm using my dentistry right now. I feel the deep need to respond very specifically and with evidence of a number of things that the President of the New Democracy, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, mentioned, has caused me to remain to answer, but he has chosen to leave. Unfortunately, the information received from the 'insurgent' policy in the health field is information from the 'LIDL', literally. You're really exposing your President with what you're telling him to say from here. In order to catch one - one - and because in the areas of corruption we do not lift any fly, but neither sneeze on our sword, I shall refer to the decision that has been mentioned and I shall start with it. What is the decision to which the President of the New Democracy who just left referred, which I signed on 28 July? It is about claw back, i.e. the automatic return amount of the year 2014 and not of 2013, as you informed him. In 2013, private clinics checked. I'll say a word about it to go to 2014 where the fat ones are. What have you guys done? You gave the job to five companies to pay the clinics to check on them. So I, for being a business, will pay the man who will control me against the state. That's what you did, and that's why they were all in court. That's why they gave a minimum claw back in 2013. We ended this last year in an agreement and negotiation. That's the truth number one. Do you understand how you expose him, Mr. Georgiadis? And you dare say such things!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u210	You're ungodly!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u211	Mr. Georgiades!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u212	I'm doing a parentheses here. You'll hear it until the last word and it'll hurt a lot. Before I came to 2014, Mr. Vorides was confronted - I'm going to do a parentheses, because you threw a conversation at me. You have made us dizzy with the subject of excellence and incoherence. They've come out now and they're talking about excellence. Who? I'm now forced to make it a little personal. I finished high school with twenty, closed. I made 1,960 molecules in the pan-Hellenic.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u213	Were you a signer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u214	How much did Mr. Mitsotakis get out? How much did you make?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u215	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u216	Yeah, you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u217	I entered Athens Philosophy with 19.4. You want more?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u218	Second, the School of Medicine ended it in six and a half years, and that's because I kept a 40-page course, because I had to stay at the HR, because I was and I was soldiered. Didn't you do a couple of fifteen years to finish the Historical Archaeological?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u219	You're a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u220	The Jamer who comes out and talks, has he obtained a degree? All this symbiote, talking about excellence, has he obtained a degree and dare to address us for excellence?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u221	We've got it, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u222	I'm talking about some people. Let's go down. Let's go to 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u223	Shall we make a comparison?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u224	As many as you want. The 2014 claw back was first arranged with an evil ministerial decision, signed by Mr. Vorides. It's obvious he couldn't have the knowledge included here. He is an evil brain that he made this ministerial decision, with all the coefficients he has made to calculate gravity of incidents and clinics to calculate the claw back that he will take from everyone. In fact, because the accounts did not come out and because in 2015 until October we had another job in our head and could not have arrived in such details - but now we have arrived and found one - the then administration that you, Mr. Near, amended your ministerial decision, changing the percentages that you had put as gravity and signed it by the Minister who was in the course of the election. Not Mr. Kourublis, the Minister of Service. It is a fairly large conversion in gravity rates, based on which the automatic return rate is calculated. So what do we see, oh of the miracle? That's why I'm telling you what information you're making to your President and humiliating him. Here is the list of calculated claw back by combining these two decisions, by Mr Vorides and as amended at some points by the serviceman, who comes out and says. I'm saying this so the people who listen to us can understand. The limit, for example, allowed by the memorandum to spend the EOPY in the care of his insured people in private clinics is, say, 250 million, 220 million. Everything that goes beyond this amount becomes automatic cut. This is the claw back, so people he hears. And the 2015 and 2016 and 2012 claw back -- why in 2013 became this mess with the companies that ended last year - we go with the market share, i.e. if they exceed it, if instead of 250 million we deposit 300, that is 50 million more, how much more of that is in the total of 250 million? Is it 15%? This 15% is cut from everyone horizontally. One who has testified 30 million will cut 15%. One who has deposited 2 million will cut him 15% and earns the sum of 2015. What did you do with these two decisions? And here it probably must be a Maniadakis finger from behind and specific contracts with specific clinics. I'll read names. Health Hospital. He filed 26,517,000 euros. Rebate was kept, which is the volume discount they make, EUR 1.770,000 in both ministerial decisions, had to pay claw back, cut, EUR 11,759,000. Watch out now. Clinical ‘IO S.A.’. He deposited 30,219,000 euros. He had a rebate, a loss of EUR 1.334, and how much would he pay claw back with this calculation, which I changed why did I make contracts? He was going to pay 1,062,000 euros. Who performs contracts? One pays 48%, what he testified and "Health" is not a microclimate that had no serious incidents. Claw back 48% and the other clinic pays 7%. Who did you get these from? Tell me about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u225	You're ungodly. I'll explain later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u226	Explain what? And we said this. Of course, here we have clinics that pay for, as you calculated, 83% claw back of what they deposited. And we have other clinics that pay 7% and 6%. That was the job you did and we changed it. The decision I signed is: How much did you deposit in 2014? How much overrun is that? It's 15% horizontal to everyone, because that's fair. This is the "flake" that you put us on the back to hide the many "flakes" you had on your own backs. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Let's go down. You told him wrong again. You're dragging him into humiliation again. You said yesterday you caught us. I answered this morning. Didn't you tell him? You said about the amendment we made. The amendment was to allow workers working in contracting workshops who have blocked us with judicial decisions and we cannot open the tender and the Commissioners are not signatories to the extension. That's why he got in. We also put the N.C.D., not the C.C.D., but hospitals, which are also N.C.D.s, if the problem appears there. That is, when I say opposition from the LIDL, say, and even worse! This is the report by the General Accounting Office of the State concerning the other amendment to the EEA. What's he saying down here? He says: "True-term obligations of the EEA," to tell them, that Juliarakis knows what he's signing. This is the subsidiary and has under ‘Assistant ALP’. You are talking about the other amendment to CIF. Yes, because he had the first issue with the president and the vice president of the ERIC. So much for the discovery you've done everything you've caught for having the CDC underneath! I mean, that's the definition of poorness, say, of opposition. That goes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u227	But you got it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u228	Why didn't you check earlier, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u229	I checked. Mr. Fotella, didn't you hear this morning? Didn't you hear? I checked that there is no issue in a hospital, so we don't need to include them in the setting. Now we're going to two other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u230	Minister, how much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u231	Another two-three minutes, Mr President. Now listen, because according to your opposition, I understand that you probably shouldn't have good relations with geography. [[Noise in the Chamber]] I know very good geography, excellent geography.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u232	And know the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u233	Now listen. Okay. Learn Greek first. You've taken out a number. Yesterday she said eighty-five and today she said ninety municipalities do not have a health centre. The Municipality of Sfakion has no health centre. He's got a powerful regional medical office. The Gadus, a municipality, will not have and will not have a health centre. It has a two-seat regional hospital, in which for the first time after many years, with the motives we have given, two doctors went. Antipalea doesn't have a health centre. It's a municipality of Astypaleas. It has a powerful regional office with two positions of doctors that are both covered. The Municipality of Sikino has a regional hospital, which is covered - it was from a general doctor, now is from a rural doctor - and does not have a health centre, such as too many islands, for example, Tilos is a municipality. These municipalities are counting. These mathematics the perfect ones know! And they count the Aegean islands, which by the law of Ragosi are named as municipalities. And they say, "How many municipalities do they have no health center?" They do not count on regional doctors or the multi-powered ones, which in any case do not need anything else and which we have strengthened with these incentives that we have given. And they make the account: "Eighty municipalities don't have it." Because the sixty are islands, let's say. Callamos and Castos were missing you. They've got farm medicine. ‘You should make a health centre.’ Forty-five, that's four thousand. What opposition is this? "My Lord is shut up, you are perishing," that is, really. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] These were, therefore, the components of the speech made by the President of the New Democracy, a historic party. What do you put in the man's mouth? Do you understand what you're doing? I mean, at last! And I close, Mr President, with that. I'd like to say a word. We have another perception of the obvious. We have a different perception. We do not want the resources of the NRP to go to the Voucher training centres, where 4/5 was the one who had the JEP and 1/5 the worker. That's not what we do. We do not want these various programmes of consultants, communication strategies, studies and study counters, which were never translated into real work, which was the mechanism that you distributed money and made a client state. Because we want and direct these resources to really support work, health and education, by giving decent work to people and scientists, who have driven them out, and we have to turn them back and not to our friends and friends, who have the JEPs, or are the various consultants for the European Projects, who have taken a mess of money through these procedures. And I will end by reading a text - and that is extremely dedicated to you, Mr Georgiadis - I will not say his name because I did not get permission to do so. It's from a fellow doctor to see who made a client state and who makes a government policy, what you did and what we did. I shall read a text posted a few hours ago which concerns you. I won't use the phrases he uses, he's more impervious than me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u234	Is there? Is she a real person?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u235	Yeah, she's a real person. I'll show it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u236	Are you friends?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u237	No, we're not friends. We have a lot of ideological controversy. We're not friends. He's just a man with a big social offer, a doctor is in a metropolitan social office, who had done a lot of work in the past few years, because now what we're doing is too little work has been done there. I want two minutes of your patience, but it has to be heard, to see what one client state is and what the other one is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u238	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u239	It says, "January 2014. Minister for Health, Mr. Georgiadis. Since November 2013 we have sent a list of ten patients with serious health problems to be introduced into a hospital for surgery, such as by-pass, aneurysms, removal of malignant tumours. They don't give a damn about it from the Ministry. The patients, knowing that debts from the hospitals will go to the tax office, refuse admission. We leave the metropolitan press release describing the analgesia of the government and Georgiad personally. That day we learn that one patient of the ten dies. It's a bad mess. Georgiadis from the channels yells at his well-known style that we play political games and that he has called us many times to talk about all the issues and we refuse. It sends us an invitation to go to the Ministry...'
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u240	Minister, we're not going to end any time. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u241	"Potents claim that debts from hospitals will go to taxis, refuse admission. We are deciding to go a delegation. We're three people. As soon as we enter the Ministry, to the right and to the left, we are accompanied by 'flyers'. We're getting to Georgia's office. The atmosphere is frozen and particularly charged. Once we enter his office, he sees me and he says, "I'm glad you're here to show you that you don't only have sensitivity, I have one." "We have not seen it until now, on the contrary, we have seen analgesia and indifference to human life," I answer. He rises up from his chair and tells me when he comes out into the lobby of his office: “Do you see these people? They are sick and I will arrange for them to be introduced for treatment." I turn my gaze in the direction it shows me and I see around ten patients waiting for Georgian charity, faces pale, painful. My blood rises to my head, I move towards him, has my mind blurred: “Are you not ashamed? These people should be in a hospital room and not in your office begging you to do them a favor of entering. And you are fascinating, old tweezers, and so on." I don't have time to say. I am removed by inflatables’. Who made a client state? We're the ones who set up the universal coverage of these people, or do you call them in your office so they can owe you later? Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u242	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u243	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds to be answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u244	I'll give Mr. Georgiadis two minutes and Mr. Voridis. I should like to inform you that we have ten other speakers and Mr Lazaridis as a parliamentary representative. We have to vote...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u245	And the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u246	And let's take a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u247	We have a hundred articles to vote on. We will also give the rapporteurs time if they want to add something with a time economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u248	And then they'll talk for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u249	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We must be done by 18:00 when the other bill begins. But you understand we'll have to square the circle to get all this out! We can with a restraint. Nobody will be deprived of the right to speak after I ask Mr Georgiadis and Mr Vorides and Mr Polakis to stop this intercystinda. We are listening to Mr. Georgiadis, then Mr. Vorides and we are entering the list of speakers with Mr. Igoumenides first and we are closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u250	I shall begin, Mr President, if he has done five - six different things personally, I will take them in turn. I start with the last one, just because he mentioned the doctor from the Metropolitan Social Doctorate of Greece - Argyroupoli, who was or where he was, because he said he was also a great ideological opponent. No! No! It's the doctor. It was you until you became SYRIZA Minister. Together you were for the drachma. You have no particular ideological disagreement. You were together! So you bring us the so-called complaints of an ADARTARSYA doctor, with whom you were together in favour of drachma, then and together you were setting up the shows!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u251	On the substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u252	On the substance. Listen, Mr. Colleague, we'll find them, the writings are left! Law 4238/14.Laws are written. Article 1: The overall and universal access of all citizens to health has been established by my law and two ministerial decisions have been followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u253	The 70 million...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u254	Paid!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u255	In turn, don't interrupt. Two ministerial decisions were followed, one of my own at the beginning of June and one of Mr Voridis's own, the full access to hospital treatment and Mr Vorides' medicine. The only thing that you have changed in these decisions was the issue of immigrants and chronic diseases. Everything else our legislation has provided for. I have a written reply to the Greek Parliament in May 2015 that by May 2015, Mr President, two thousand uninsured fellow citizens had made use of our public health system without paying 1 euro, and this by law of our own government, and I have the honour to say from me, as Minister, personally. So what Mr. Paulakis said doesn't touch me. Now I'm going to the major for the bill. Mr. Paulakis says, in fact, the immeasurable. They're begging, it says, the Chief of Officer Response with health centers in the municipalities, on the islands. That doesn't count. I could tell you that Agios Dimitrios doesn't have a health centre, Alimos doesn't have a health centre, he doesn't have a health centre.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u256	That's where we'll have TOMY.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u257	In turn, don't interrupt me! Mr President, the Deputy Minister of Health said from the Step of the House that we have confused the Chief of Staff, because we did not understand that the sixty of the ninety municipalities are islands. Excuse me, what article in your bill are you saying the islands are excluded?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u258	Urban centers, he says. The islands...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u259	You vote for a bill that each municipality says will have a health centre and inside you say that every health centre will have at least forty-five people, so Gaudou and the two of you, your law doesn't work.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u260	That's where he'll have multi-powered health centers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u261	If, sir, you want to make a law what you said from there just now, you will get a partner, because you can't write it down, and he will write it to you in an article. Because what you are voting on now is different from what you said from the Step of the House, if you do not understand, sir!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u262	No, I don't. You don't understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u263	Now let's go to the claw back. The other one, I'm leaving it to the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u264	Aren't I going to answer you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u265	The Chief of Staff Response made a complaint. Mr. Paulakis cleverly didn't answer her and went to the claw back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u266	That was the decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u267	Don't interrupt, Mr. Polakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u268	The government decision you abolished has inside the claw back, but in Article 2 it has had the penalties for those who would be arrested by the companies to steal from the EEA. He was depriving him of a license, interrupting a contract with EPPY, and he had a fine. These have been abolished by your ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u269	You're lying again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u270	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u271	Put her in the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u272	Here it is. The sentences were in 1913, the ministerial decision in '14.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u273	You abolished all sentences to thieves.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u274	You're ungodly. You don't know what's going on with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u275	And leave the voices to me, because I have shown you that health I know it better than you do. Unfortunately for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u276	You're lying. The ministerial decision, by which I applauded, is 2014. You're a liar.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u277	Minister, we're not making any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u278	You removed along with the claw back and Article 2, which are the sentences. If you don't know, you've been lured. Article 2 is the penalties for thieves and you removed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u279	Mr. Georgiadis, proceed further.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u280	You've been lured. Article 2 is the penalties for thieves and you removed it. And let's go to the last one. And that is extremely personal. First of all, I do not want to answer anything, Mr President. Because Mr. Paulakis asked me, I entered the university with 19,200 molecules. Obviously you'd mean 19,400 and not 1,900 you said!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u281	A thousand nine hundred and sixty (1,960), i.e. 19,600.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u282	I had 19,2 out of 20, to get together, and I entered the Historical and Archaeological Athens. I did, in ten years, get my degree. Do you know why? Because I lost my parents in the middle, and I had to build a business and live my family. If you're really interested in my student skills, in the Minutes of the House, it's the eulogy that your Deputy Minister of Education, Mr. Peglerin, had me as a student, and for three minutes he made me blush by saying why he made me "excellent". So you're inexperienced. But can you, Mr Polakis, submit to the House the diploma of intensifier you have?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u283	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u284	The degree! In the Minutes, I want to. I've searched all medical clubs in the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u285	Oh, you were looking for them!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u286	Yeah, you went to intensive school. I want the degree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u287	Oh, are you looking for it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u288	Me, me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u289	Is there an intensive school?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u290	There is, there is. There's a good one! I want the certificate that says you completed this specialty. I want the certificate. Do you know why?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u291	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u292	Why did you do the intensification director without having the legal certificate? Unless you have it, so bring it to the House. I haven't found it anywhere. Well, because I know you and I'll put you in jail, know I've studied you very well. Today I don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u293	Mr. Georgiadis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u294	...for the CDC I've caught you with the sprout on the back. Your friend didn't give him the 2.5 million, lost the trial. And because he lost the insurance measures, as you accused them yesterday, and the temporary order yesterday, you sent the Economic Police at that time to take the records away from him. You've done too much damage to him! Two and a half million would give him. We ruined it here yesterday! Take a good look at me, Polakis. You're not getting out of this from me. You're acting clean, but you're too dirty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u295	How a punk one can be! How much punctuality can one hide in him? Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u296	Minister, you don't have the floor. Mr. Vorides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u297	Mr President, if I may make a small contribution to this debate on excellence, the criterion we are in the Greek Parliament is the vote of the Greek people. And that is the major in the debate on the political process, Mr Polakis. In the political process, the people will decide how Parliament is to be formed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u298	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u299	He decides, he judges with his own perception of excellence. So I guess this is not a terrible thing to do. Either someone has good studies, or someone has less good studies, or someone has no studies. There's no place where we're going to have an academic contest. Here are other competitions, they are of another type, and they are other criteria that apply. Mr President, allow me. Mr Paulakis referred to a specific ministerial decision which, to say the truth, I did not know, but I saw that changed it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u300	Done at Brussels, 11 November 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u301	We are talking about, I imagine - to be an informant - in Ministerial Decision C3c(EC) 96176/11-11-2014. This is, in order to reach agreement, ladies and gentlemen, what this ministerial decision has done and what it has been trying to deal with. He was right to say. There is a closed budget for expenditure on providers and private clinics. Whoever this is. However, a major issue which arises, Mr President, is how this allocation of funds is internally implemented. In short, what will each private clinic get from this internal budget? Of course, this ultimately depends on the total submissions they make, and of course it also affects the return to the claw back. It's all self-evident. The one approach that was in existence is what I would call an equalisation approach. So what did he say? How much is the overrun? How many submissions are there? Depending on the extent to which the excess is exceeded, it shall be deducted percentagely and uniformly to all. That's extremely unfair. Why is it extremely unfair? Firstly, there may be some who make very large excesses. By applying the principle of equal treatment, this is actually the same thing as those who do not go too far. So here you need to find a way to deal with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u302	We found it. Except it has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u303	You'll see, Minister. Secondly, we have identified problems. This process, referred to by the Chief of Officerial Response and President of New Democracy, is a process in which we did what we did? We put in and checked with private audit firms the submissions that private clinics made. What did we see in that? We have seen - and I am not going to be equitable - a number of problems, some in my opinion, of a criminal nature. It's completely false. There have been frauds. They have to be checked. I had forwarded these to the EEA in order to carry out audits, to make dossiers and then to proceed with criminal proceedings, i.e. to make divisions. That's a matter. However, there were also the so-called ‘differences’ which are differences between counterparties. There should be a negotiation with the EEA in order to reduce the amounts. What happened to these checks? That there was a constant infringing behaviour in some cases. By collecting all this, Mr President, what did he do? He was trying to set criteria for budget allocation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u304	Don't talk about it all. Finish your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u305	I shall conclude, Mr President. What criteria? How well she did her job a private clinic. How many reimports he had. If he had an IF. He was trying to see if he had violated the law and that was going to work for the submissions. So what did they do? They rewarded good clinics and punished bad clinics. That's the ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u306	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u307	I'll be 30 seconds, Mr. President. Thank you for your tolerance. One can say 'I didn't want this criterion to have so much weight, to have another gravity'. Maybe it shouldn't have been calculated with 5%, calculated with 7%. This is a political debate. However, what one cannot say and, if that is not the case, is a big mistake, is very unfair and ultimately affecting the patient, the nurse, who has a claim for his money as an insured person, and there is a system in which no money is wasted, but that the performance of private clinics is mobilised, since you have not followed and returned to a level playing field - I say'returned', because I have not seen the ministerial decision and I do not know what you have done - is that, however, this is a good thing, it has worked and should not be touched on by his philosophy and his logic. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u308	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u309	Not now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u310	Listen to me, I'm not taking it to staff. I'll answer that one. I have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u311	I'll give you a minute. Strictly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u312	I'm not going to answer the previous stories. Everyone is his story and his path and he is well known for all what he deserves and what he is not worth. I agree with the reasoning you said that the people decide not on the basis of the '20' level. Others have started this story with excellence trying to prove that others are not. Listen, Mr. Voridis, in essence. Because, really, with you, I can talk to you no matter how much we disagree. That's what they told you. This was not done in practice, though. Maybe they told you this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u313	It's the ministerial decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u314	Listen, yeah, the point is, when you're messing with the coefficients, you're pulling out other things. Because if you mind the numbers, the twenty, the ten, the five, the thirty, the gamma, the delta, etc., you get something else. Watch me now. All that you would say and that on a theoretical basis we could accept them would be true if it hadn't happened: Watch me, "Health" is not a small clinic. He's doing a lot of heavy work. He pays 48% claw back. The "medical centre" and that's the same gravity it's over - down, but it pays 38%. Metropolitan and this is heavy, but it pays 45%. Some other middle clinics, which are not what we now say are changing sheets and which are just nursing homes or I don't know what, decent middle-age clinics paid 75% and 80% claw back and others with corresponding large-scale cases paid 7% and 9% and 20%. Is that right? They are severely clinically and at least comparable to the others. So here -- and I don't know if you guys got it, someone did deal. To get that result out, someone here made deal specific and because they didn't get the numbers out of him, when we weren't up, they were the servants, they passed it, they said, "Come and change the percentages a little." Because it was done and signed by the Minister, who was unable to understand. I know about medicine, and so on, I've had too much time to figure out where the story is hiding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u315	Good, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u316	Wait a minute, one last one. Our answer now is different. Because there is a problem with what you say and we said: not all hospitals enter a bucket. In other words, if it is EUR 200 million what we need to provide, the EUR 120 million will be the general hospitals, the EUR 40 million will be specific hospitals, where only those who have and can provide this service, i.e. embolisms, interthracy valves, by-passes, which we cannot cover from public sector infrastructure. So those who can provide these will enter this bucket. Same as the intensive care units that the private sector gives us. Not everything's in the bucket. We split up a piece of it and say that those who give beds and have contract will fall there. So is the therapeutic or radiotherapy medicine. They're apart from the codes in them. So, a clinic that has all this stuff, deposits separately, however, audited invoices, which, for the first time, EEAY checked in 2016, because until then, like the insurance funds, what did he do? You testified to me 100,000? Take 90,000 and the 10,000 we'll find it. Find what? These are the EUR 150 million in the IKA that we owe.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u317	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u318	And now, you file the separate codes and claw back falls only to those who have deposited in that code.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u319	Good, Minister. Understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u320	That's salvation. This is how it is solved without the 'berdeways' that had the percentages here, which it is clear that some business groups favoured them and others threw them. It's clear about the act now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u321	Thank you. Mr. Igoumenides has the floor. To beg everyone for absolute respect in time, for the process to take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u322	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that I have too much to say on the issue of health, I cannot avoid the temptation to comment on the faces of the indignant excellence we have seen here today. I see, Mr President, in the face of the indignant aristocrats all those who opposed the use of elementary school, because we would be vague. I see those who opposed the abolition of school aprons because it would promote sexism at school. I see those who reacted, if the best student were to be the origin of Albanian immigrant, about what happens to our national identity. I see in the face of the indignant excellence the anachronistic fearful right. I see in the face of the indignant excellence the true moderates, who really can't understand that the perfect ones don't need them. Ladies and gentlemen, the Left has signed with its struggles its strategic objective of building a public health system. We wanted, we are fighting, we want and we are fighting for a health system that ensures universal coverage of the population, which will provide free and equal access for citizens to high quality health services. We are fighting for a health system that is subject to social control and has controlled costs. That's all the politician has to see, Mr. Leventis. In fact, it's not all, it's half. It also has a backwards bank. And you have to deal with one of the two. The opposite bank, the conservative party, the subordinate to the economic interests of the few, brings an absolute subjection of health to the economic interests of the private initiative. This means lowering public care, shifting the cost of care to the citizens and means, when decisively the economic criteria for accessing our health service, uncovered needs and exclusion of our fellow citizens are highlighted. This is the hideous neo-conservative package, which, in the hope of the New Democracy's party making it attractive to our people, wraps it up with the wrapping up of the free choice of doctors. Ask, gentlemen, the two and a half million of our fellow citizens, who within four years of implementing your policy in circumstances of crisis, have thrown them out of insurance. Ask last night a million and a half or one million of our unemployed fellow citizens today. Ask the poor and the weak of this society. You'll tell me - I know and we all know - that you are not concerned with them, like all those people in society, the majority of our society knows firsthand from its everyday life and can explain very well how disabled the freedom to choose a doctor you are feeding to her. Mr. Mitsotakis came today and, to prove that SYRIZA once again cheats on the workers and Greek citizens, he said that " ninety health centers for forty-five people" do not arrive. In other words, recruitment promised by the Ministry of Health is not enough to meet the needs. Of the ninety municipalities - I will not dwell on the sixty of the islands - in Heraklion, we have two that have no health center. Let me get them in turn. Municipality of Hersonissos: twenty-five thousand inhabitants, a thousand four hundred forty hotel units. It's a lot of money to keep them in the public health system. That's why he doesn't have a health centre. That is why they left the municipality on the private initiative. However, in this municipality there are six doctors, with two doctors each, with two nurses, that is, six health units covering the population in this municipality. It is a municipality whose population is growing, a municipality that is becoming part of Heraklion's urban fabric. We have worked out a proposal and discussed it with the city council. We talked to the citizens. At the moment, only the reorder of the forces is left, so that these regional medical services can be integrated into the system of urban tissue that we are discussing. So not only is he uncovered, but we also have five medical establishments, which we basically didn't count at 100, thirty-nine. Municipality: twenty-five thousand inhabitants. It is also a municipality without a health centre with five doctorates, which work. A proposal was presented to the municipality, on the municipal council, where we discussed where these health units will be placed, because this part of Heraklion's urban fabric too is. We talked in July 2017 -- so "wrong" is the bill that came - with workers in the municipal social policy structures. Their sum is ninety-seven. The needs of the health establishments - if Mr Mitsotakis wants us to talk about them - are a hundred and a half. In July 2017 we discussed. Really, where did you see, Mrs. Gennamas, sloppy? This is a rough bill when we've been working on it since 2015? Is that a bill written in the leg? Where did you see that we are not working together and that there is no synergy with the municipalities? What can I say? A rough bill or opposition of the leg? Virtual opposition. We're building a system as we want it, we're rendering it to SYRIZA and we're getting bored.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u323	Please, please, because we're over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u324	To conclude, I would like to say to Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Georgiadis, in addition to removing two health centers from the uncovered population of our country, adding ten doctors, five to the Municipality of Hersonissos, five to the Municipality of Malevizio, ten to the outskirts of Heraklion, which, with the development of the city, have now been included in the medical professions. The political decision is the only one left by the Ministry. We have twenty other medical establishments, therefore, that don't fit into the two hundred thirty-nine. I will simply close by thanking the partners who helped me as the commander of the healthcare region yesterday, but also today as a Member of Parliament in the processing of all these elements for primary health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u325	Thank you to SYRIZA MP Nikolaos Igoumenidis. The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Theodores Dritsas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, strange things are happening. There is such a serious bill - not because the title says so, but because it is an announcement and a expectation of the Greek people that the reform of primary health care - is dealt with by the Opposition with the participation of nine MPs, yesterday and today. In addition to the rapporteurs and parliamentary representatives, SYRIZA had sixty Members declared themselves in this debate since yesterday, New Democracy nine, Democratic Incorporation four, Golden Dawn four other and two Independent Members. This, alone, captures who is really interested in the health system and the peak of this juncture in primary health care. And while we have a New Democracy, which even in the anti-constitutional plea, had only five to ten Members present to rise, unprecedented in the functioning of Parliament. They come because the president of the government speaks and they are being recruited. In the middle of the speech of the Prime Minister, the Chief of Police Response comes, who does not inform the House of his intention to speak. Then she leaves, leaves and comes afterward, when the Prime Minister is not aware of his planning, to say that in September the New Democracy will announce its own dreadful and dreadful health care programme. Do we realize what foolishness and deception both of health and of politics are we talking about? And the Chief of Officer's Reconciliation comes to this Deputy Minister of Health, co-rapporteur of the bill, in the government seated, to tell him, "I caught you with the sprout on the back" and to leave. What if they're both Cretans, the island of Lebundia? Where's the elementary talk, Mr. President? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It wasn't a general charge. He said, "I caught you with the sprout on your back, Paulie" and left. All right, we understand that the authority of the Chief of Officership is usually safeguarded by the fact that it is only chosen with the Prime Minister. Hey, so much compost now? Such shallow behavior without a leaf? From that point on, he resurrected what we heard from the Members of the New Democracy, and from some PASOK Members, not everyone, not everyone, because PASOK, the Democratic Alliance, as I understand it at least, should not have had a single view on the matter. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall be brief, Mr President. And what issue did they raise? That we have a Soviet-type system here, because it is abolished - it says - the right to choose a doctor from the citizens, a right that has been abolished for many years now. Because I don't want to talk about marketing, which defines a lot of citizens' choices for doctors. But that's what I'm leaving. It's another conversation. The very system of private doctors who are contracted to their doctors is by definition undermined by these two hundred visits per month, which are immediately closed, which the citizen is unable to serve, which we all experience, and we all know. And they're coming to say what? In paragraph 4 - says Mr Mitsotakis - of Article 5 of the 2014 Law had provided for the family doctor. It's over. Not within a primary care system, but by the name that there will be a family doctor. I don't have time to discuss it in detail. I won't abuse time, but it's very typical what I mean. Let at least read Article 1 of the draft law describing this new system, because it is a system. And that's exactly where the doctors, nurses, the rest of the staff, and even administrative, are involved to function as a system. What do they tell us about the free choice of doctors? We were told before, Mr. Mosialos, some other health technocrats. We've heard it before in Parliament in the past few years. What are they telling us? They tell us that we will individually assign individual doctors - fifty, 100, three thousand, ten thousand - to operate as a magic system. Do you realize what this is about? It is this, which confirms what Paul Paulakis described yesterday very well, that the New Democracy has a social alliance with those health actors who have economic interests with small or large and operate with economic profitability targets in the health field. It's a hard structured social alliance. He embraces this alliance, the River, the Democratic Alliance, and I don't know who else? We don't like her. And, of course, quite rightly the existence, but also the prospect of our new alliance are all those people of health who will serve and frame this new effort. And I want to believe that there will be very rapid difficulties - because there are difficulties - thanks to them, but also to the overall awareness of health people - not of the WTO - but of the Greek people as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u327	Thank you to SYRIZA MP, Mr. Theodore Dritsa. The President of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u328	Ladies and gentlemen, I feel the need to say a few things about the issues that have been raised in the debate on education, on the functioning of the House, to create impressions, but also on other issues. I will start from this to finish with some political comments. I am sorry that the Chief of Staff Response made a trick two days ago with a package of amendments, which he left here, half of which were amendments to the Response. Half of these were parliamentary amendments by the opposition parties. They were neither government nor parliamentarians nor ministerial. Of the hundred and seventy-nine, only eighty-eight were amendments that had been tabled by the ministers or by the Members of the Co-Population. In this sense, the eleven bills that had come - because that was where Mr Mitsotakis was referring - represented eight amendments to each of them. I'd like it to be four, five or six. We are working on this, in consultation with both the government and the Conference of Presidents. However, what this picture has to do with and at the same time the targeting and non-suspension of communication supplies, with friends of close media, who, instead of dealing with the real debate this week, which has been made here, the signal given is that the House is degenerating, almost illegal, the House is about a ballast and there is a good amount of amendments that come for personal interests, etc. It's completely out of reality what happened the other day as a trick in this Chamber. I want to be very specific. In 2016, ninety-one bills and three hundred three amendments were tabled. In other words, we had three and a half amendments per bill and no single act of legislation was published. Keep the evidence. In 2017 - and the report will be completed after the end of the year - so far in forty bills there have been forty-five amendments, and in particular, as I said, in the last eleven bills of eighty-five ministerial amendments. So, in this sense, I repeat, the whole propaganda, which is being done for poor legitimisation at this height, to this extent. I repeat, a lot of colegislative problems I first say that we have, that we have, and need to be corrected every day that passes. But not so, because this is how the House itself is affected, democracy itself. And anyone who does not understand that, that this netting "they did the same thing, you do the same thing, so it all happens" helps another wing inside the House, makes a very big self-destructive mistake. This agenda does not lead to an improvement in the working conditions of Parliament or democracy. This is therefore a clear answer with figures which can be considered. You also need to know and we must be proud of all of us - because all the parties contribute to legislative work - that our country was placed in the fourth best position and that it was one of the eight countries that were kept below the 1% deficit threshold in relation to the incorporation of Community directives, which was sixty-six last year, forty-seven. For a decade, if you remember, there were Community directives coming - you know them, the current Members of the New Democracy - and after three, five, seven years, they were ratified here. Who is European and who is not? It works in this Parliament and in contact, despite the pressure we all have, with the European process. Still, you should know that extra measures have been taken. There are seminars for the better legalization within the House, in the services, in the parties, everywhere. I repeat. I invite all of us to work together so that things can improve even further. There are ideas about that. But the political, cynical use, in many cases, of evidence to create an image that SYRIZA operates unconstitutionally and the Bureau is acting unconstitutionally, first guilty of the person presenting to you, is totally wrong. Of course, I had the political experience not to say this yesterday, but to have the debate on education progressed. Let me mention two - three other issues. Ladies and gentlemen, today - and Mr Dritsa said before - we heard again in twenty-five minutes about Mr Madouros, Mr Varoufakis, about Ruvikon, about the flagrants, about everything, about two amendments, which are suspicious of the ministers, so that they have the websites and channels and the headlines of the next three-day period in cold blood. We have also heard a phrase, which says: 'But on the programme we will tell you in the autumn, which we shall make absolutely.' Absolutely respected. What did the previous ones need? It is absolutely respectable that it should be set up then, that it is thorough and that the debate that has been started here should take place on substance. No objections. The rest, why did they need it? For the debate to go again, not to say today - as they did not talk about education, not about health - the channels, radios, newspapers, etc., but about going to another agenda called 'law and order', 'Venezuela', etc., which, in my opinion, are totally unjustified at this stage. Two issues are therefore raised, ladies and gentlemen. You should know that for the first time in the Greek Parliament within 14 days, even in the regular procedure, seven bills came to a debate in plenary and were voted on. 'Why now?' several colleagues have asked. I, who's not a governmentman, want to answer. To a very large extent, the second assessment has been completed late. I want to be honest. In fact, there is a horrifying effort on the substance of governance, which is exactly what is meant by the closure of the second assessment and the exit into the markets. This essential process means something for the people, something for society, something with regard to media regulation, something with regard to the lack of GDP, something with regard to the statement of the OSH and the mess in transport, something with regard to the economic issues and the outstandingities that were in the other bill. We had seven bills of settlement, in a line, in an intervention line. This means that the second evaluation has been carried out. The rest is for technicians. It's for Mr. Chakaloto and the negotiating team and the Prime Minister who's in charge. It's for the ministers who do their job every day. It is for us Members that we are legislating. It's not for the people. The second assessment case that closed and that we got out on the market for the first time are elements of a positive roadmap that can go somewhere, but that's for the generals, it's not immediate for society. It doesn't mean that it's something that the citizen can think of, about my child, about my family, in September, in October, in the new period, what to expect, what to do if a matter was settled etc. So this signalling, which has been on the road map, is very important. Unfortunately, what seems to be absolutely two logical and two corresponding poles of politics and society - I would say - power for the programme of the country after the memorandum, how Greece will come out after the memorandum. Ladies and gentlemen, are we going out to heal, lick our wounds with conservative folding? It's possible, if these powers are left, that they take the upper hand. It is possible, because a country eight years, a post-crisis society that starts thinking from metaphysics to micropolitical or anything, is trapped in a defensive survival posture. That's not what the country needs. The real exit from the markets, the real exit to Greece, the memorandum, wants a progressive political, progressive programme, a leading role in a Europe that will change and, of course, a discriminatory social relief for those who lost in the crisis and not all Greeks in general. This programme is being shaped and implemented through this House and, unfortunately, in this programme, New Democracy, Dedicated Opposition hides words. I shall conclude with that, Mr President. I want to be clear. This derby of excellence and equalization is the window, is the flawless copy "we work for the few or for the many," "we work for the public and collective and the public good and the public interest, or we work for the self-interest of the few who have the standards of socio-taxation to do what they do in their lives". They don't want to say that, but that's what it's all about. And they put the issue of excellence and, on the other hand, a concept of equalisation at every opportunity - but, at every opportunity, at the edge of the globe now to discuss it - precisely because the other, the real dimension of opinion, who represents who - and I am not talking about who is neither a agent nor an agent of whom, nor what is serving, I am not talking about - and what interests are increasingly transparent, more and more active on the surface, as the gloomy of terror, fear and pressure which they have been exerting and will carry on the memorial and restrictive policies for a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u329	Thank you to the President of Parliament, Mr. Nikos Voutsi. SYRIZA MEP Ms. Merope Jufi has the floor, requesting time limitation at five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u330	Mr President, I would like to ask you for your kind understanding and as a justification, and it will also be the fact that I have served for over thirty years in the public health system in all roles: as a rural doctor, for over two years in Akronica Konitsa, at all levels as a doctor of the National Health System in the hospitals of Ioannina, and then as a university doctor and a teacher in constant communication with the space and the new generation of candidate doctors. So I think I am entitled to attempt some answers in my own way to questions that have been put to the public debate and which, of course, have been answered in many ways. In the main question "Why now, on these hot days of August, did you remember bringing these critical bills?" He answered before the President of Parliament. I'll try to say it in my own words. Because we have achieved, with the continuing sacrifices of the Greek people, the hard budgetary targets that allowed us to close the second assessment, with painful measures after 2018, but also positively equivalent social support measures and why we have successfully achieved this exit on the markets, but with the aim of getting us out of the memorandums in 2018. So now it is the crucial time window to build our defenses by building the social state that is demolished by you. Yesterday, according to the Minister of Photocopy, the old communist minister legislated for education. And today the twin of the middle-aged left-wing politicians, according to the aggressive parliamentary representative of old-fashioned politicians, legislates for health. But you should know, ladies and gentlemen, that we are legislating with the consent of the great social majority, who, although tired and at the limits of her resilience, expects, as the President of this House has said, serious changes in her everyday life and prospects for her children. Is this reform important? No one's questioning it. But why has it been pending for so many years since 1983? Some of us are old. Do you know what her name was then? Urban-type health centres. They've never been implemented. Why? Because the priorities of social democracy have changed since the 1990s and in the development phase it was found that this area was an important area of profitability and business activity. We will all remember the insurance packages, which were aimed at healthy citizens, because the seriously ill people went to the public hospitals. It was and is still a time-consuming demand of the serious and time-consuming hospital movement. I really do not understand the current WTO policy here. For years now what was the hospital movement saying? That we need to make primary health care, which can be sorted out of the incidents, so that only the ones we need to get to the hospital to take care of them. Is this the European and international priority that speaks of a shift towards prevention, health education, Community medicine, which the interdisciplinary group should take, and which also has serious economic parameters, which one cannot ignore in times of crisis? Is the answer - and this has to be done here and now - to depreciating and shrinking public primary care structures that were preceded by the governance of the New Democracy and PASOK, who giggling these dysfunctions and extinguished three thousand doctors on their way out of the health system? The answer, of course, is positive. What are they telling us? Okay, fine, you do. But why don't you make the other structures? You'll disorganize them. Is that true? Oh, no. There is an attempt to strengthen rural-type health centres and to have the ETS, while remaining at the second level of services of the system and to establish - a request of too many years - central diagnostic laboratories and to ensure public dental care and there are networks with health professionals, such as midwives and health visitors serving public structures, but even where there is a need to renew and increase the networks of contracted doctors from the EEA. They remembered the graduation and the primary doctors. Have they really been licensed, certified? Are they providing those services as an alternative to the need to finally set up, at least in the urban fabric, a reliable primary health care system? Can there be problems? Has this system been tested in other countries? Yes, ladies and gentlemen, there may be problems. However, efforts were made to consult and discuss experts and medical schools, as did the World Health Organisation. So we said to start at first, not covering the entire population, but taking a step in implementing this reform and judging it, assessing it, if necessary expanding it, revising it, and, of course, linking it to the national welfare system we are planning, and to the decommissioning policies. As far as the issue of Sovietisation is concerned, I would just like to say what happened after the collapse of the medical model in the Soviet Union, which the life expectancy came down by ten years and which had disappeared, such as polio and diphtheria. But the model in which our opponents are - let's say so - fans are the American model. These figures were submitted. So what does the budget for Congress say? Thirty-two million Americans will lose their insurance cover by 2026 and if a battle is taking place - Obamacare is abolished without being replaced by another insurance law, seventeen million Americans are expected to lose health benefits and remain completely unsafe. Is that the model we want? We tried it during the crisis. The Greek people have responded negatively. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude with the subject that concerns me personally. Will we be able to serve this system with a generation of young doctors and health professionals? In my opinion, it's the big bet. We need this new generation to get it on its back, the generation of our children working in and out of Greece. Deep inside I believe, however romantic it sounds, that the new generation wants romance and vision to invest not narrow hearts and misery in difficult conditions for it. We cannot yet promise them permanent and well-paid positions. But if they invest in caring for the world of hardship and honest work, they will be rewarded with gaining rich knowledge and experience. The first phase of their career is very important, but the world's love, which is an inalienable value over time, and the rest will then come. If the governance of the country continues to remain this concept and not the failed models of privatization, then we can really face with optimism what the new generation is doing, that is, the direction that is going on in both Great Britain and the United States of America, which young people are gathering around left-wing social democracy and left-wing prospects and denying the path of privatisation in health, welfare and education. Because life is worth it, not only if you share it, but also when you respect it and defend it every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u331	Mrs Stuboulis has the floor. I would ask you to be consistent in your time. It's no different. I don't want to interrupt yourourourourism, but in five minutes I'll beg you to have your thoughts completed. Here you go, Mrs. Stuboulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u332	As far as possible, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am also obliged to spend some time with the atrocious excellent people - they should have been left absent - who are cut off on how the flag is taken into parades. By arriving at the F grade, I was informed that whatever tens I could collect, the flag would take her a boy. How can I not be a feminist after that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u333	Well, it's good for you, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u334	It was also good in society that it changed after '81. Arriving in the third high school of maids, of course - with a degree of 19 and 12/13 (tenth and twelveteen thirds), I did not parade with the flag on 25 March 1977, during the great strike of Olemen, because my high school mother - at another high school - was strikering - even conservative beliefs in general, had the morality to strike - while the high school of my own was not strike and demanded that I attend the courses of reason and philosophy that she did every day in two - three girls, because the rest of the class did not go or at least promise to follow them from there and then, as long as the strike lasted. Of course, I didn't make either one or the other, and I kept abstaining. However, I am not confusing Russeus with Voltero and may I go practical, unlike some indignant excellence, who I imagine never took part in any abstention, nor in any occupation. A draw again, therefore, until the day when our youth gets rid of these hollow fanatics - I agree with Mr Leventis. As for the bill, I have to admit that last night I preferred instead of reading something more about it, to read Aegeanou's memories in his special enlightening book entitled "The change ended early", which gave me an excellent university colleague - a doctor I mean - who continues to offer multiples of public and private health. However, the exception confirms the rule that these sectors must be distinct and their framework of operation clearly described and correctly followed by the relevant articles of the draft law. We are reminded, therefore, of the second part of the book on Friday of Agginos, which met with the lyrics of every proposal to create a public health system that would cover all the people of the country. And I stress the term, because we are talking about people in the country when we talk about human rights, such as the right to health, education, food and shelter, and social solidarity. Of course, we are talking about Greek citizens in terms of rights such as the right to vote and to stand as a candidate. The reactions are therefore described, which also met by the attempts of Spiros Doxiadis, which was, indeed, influenced by the declaration of Alma Ata of '78 and the plans of the Friday of Averynou himself. We are, indeed, lucky, Mr Ministers. We live at a time when the world has moved on. And it has moved on from the ability of many to pay for services that could have been badly paid before, but it has happened - and as we can see, in addition to the culminations of the parliamentary representative and the rapporteur of the Civilian Police Officer, that the fingers are mitigated by colleagues and colleagues who are, indeed, opposed to the bill. Something is bleak about free choice, but we are not even told by the most recent former Minister of Health with the well-known style and morality - what a free choice the people who in the crisis lost their insurance rights. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me give you a reply. They had to choose between dragging from the ERs into their three-member committees, which we do not know every time they met and on what criteria they rejected or rejected requests, and resorting to social hospitals, where despite the limited within, solidarity, doctors and non-medicals, they provided everything they could, without at least degrading them. The conclusions on how uninsured the issues of the uninsured Mr Georgiadis' decisions arise on the one hand from the movement of social doctors at that time and, on the other hand, from the confirmed and non-demanding requirements of hospitals you are now abolishing, Minister, which I propose despite the workload that this will add to some, to inform the interested parties... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. ...to be aware of what this government has relieved them and finally to be taught by your undoubted predecessors that they can make fun of all people for a little and a few people forever, but they can't make fun of all people forever. Gate keeping will be done by the TOMY, the fans of the right to choose - for the having, of course, the others don't count. Preventing access to the hospital will be made to local health units, as if it is bad to treat tonsillitis, the vaccination of the child, bronchitis and the regulation of hypertension of the smoker grandparent, the dysmenorrhea or micro trauma by the doctor known in the neighborhood, who will follow and advise then, instead of going a few miles and waiting for hours in a hospital - because in the face of the asthmatic crisis and the stroke or the stroke, it is not so much the order - until a good colleague has been able to deal with them, who has never seen them ever again, ever seen them again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u335	Finish, please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u336	It's not that gate keeping. Gate keeping is what is done by some JEP officials who misunderstood, I believe, the legislation and continue to deny the performance of AMKA, so also access to care, because they connect it to the job find and refuse to hand over AMKA to asylum seekers and detainees, who, as we know, if they have been fired under conditions, have been banned from leaving the country for some years. I would mention that, Mr Minister, because such behaviour has been denounced by organisations dealing with the rights of refugees and migrants at the last meeting of the Committee on Youth and Human Rights, and I am sure you will do the same at the Ministry of Migration Policy in principle, but also with the Ministers of Labour and Administrative Reconstruction involved, in order to implement the spirit and letter of No.4368, which we have voted on last year and which we all know very well and that all ensures that the health coverage of all people in the country is covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mrs. Stuboulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u338	Allow me, Mr President, to refer particularly to half of this population, to the female gender population, because in this bill there is a strong gender dimension in public care. The networks of midwives and obstetricians, which, through their regular presence in local health establishments, will provide care for pregnancy and pregnancies in order to eliminate the phenomenon of pregnant women entering a social hospital in the fifth month, without anyone having seen it, or the on-call that reaches the emergency to give birth, also without anyone having seen it and is not always foreign uninformed and excluded. She can be our fellow Roma...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u339	Thank you very much, Mrs Stuboulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u340	Let me finish my proposal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u341	But please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u342	But you've spoken for nine minutes! Even your rapporteur has not spoken for this long!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u343	Please! She may also be our fellow Roma and we were supposed to be honoring the memory of the respective victims of Nazism in the past few days.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u344	Okay, fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u345	They will therefore provide information on family planning networks of midwives and obstetricians, as was the case in the 1970s, that information on sexual and reproductive health, on contraception and, more rarely, on fertility information, which, apart from the purely medical section, necessarily replaces the sexual education that our schools are not yet giving, while Europe's schools have been giving it for decades, which does not bother them "We are Europe".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Mrs. Stuboulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u347	Also, they will guide...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u348	But it's not possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u349	I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u350	Please! Five minutes have become nine and a half!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u351	All right, all right, I had to add something, not repeat the preliminary diagnosis of cervical cancer...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u352	At 6 p.m., we're starting a new bill. Respect the process! It's not helping what you're doing right now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u353	They're familiar and I don't insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u354	What should you insist on? We've reached ten minutes. For God's sake, that is! Please! Mr. Minister wants to make a legal improvement. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u355	Thank you. One last - and I hope very much - legal improvement I would like to put forward. It's a little dramatic change. We add the phrase 'psychiatric field' to Article 31. You'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u356	We'll see. We'll distribute it right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u357	Mr. Ilias Kostopanagiotos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a surgeon and I've always been a hospital doctor. All my career, I did it in one of the "nariarchs" of the National Health System, in the General State of Athens. I've lived through the neutron - to the unexistent - health system that existed. I have experienced the remarkable effort of Professor Doxiadis to make reforms that encountered a lyric reaction. I have experienced the great effort of the late George Gennamata to establish the National Health System at last. He also met a lyric reaction and took him two years to implement it, to put it forward, even though he almost had the universal consensus of the citizens and an economic comfort. Many views have been heard in this Chamber today. It sounded like a sterile, woody opposition speech. There have also been proposals, depending on the ideological view of everyone and their personal views, and they are respected. That is what the citizens have heard. I have heard colleagues from the Opposition report saying that we have seen the shortcomings in health centres, hospitals and others. How easy this is! However, we have not been told who delivered the hospitals and health centres with shortcomings in this situation. Did they forget? They didn't dare say it? The Ministry of Health within two years with nails and teeth tried to keep hospitals up and stabilise them, so they wouldn't collapse with incalculable consequences. And he did it. We don't triumph. He did it. Now he dares and makes a very important reform in the field of primary health. What did he answer and what did the establishment respond to this effort? They tried to degrade the Ministry's leadership. But Andreas Blonde said about the medicine and the others, but the misinformation and the danger was announcing. They tried and targeted my friend Paul Paul Paul. It is what Nikos Philis once said, "they attempt to kill characters" and I will add "the murder of ethos". It is known that Paul Paulakis is not of the French school, he is of the Cretan and indeed of the carpet school. I want to ask and answer me what they care about, how Paul Paulakis says it, or what Paul Paulakis says. Do I repeat it, what does it say, or what does it say? They have not dealt with what Paul Paulakis says, for they are not interested in. They're dealing with how he says it. My friend, Dimitris Emmanoulidis, said that he was becoming a pussy in health. No, I disagree, she was very diligent. In the food they eat, drink dirt, and leave residues and some crumbs. Here, friend Emmanuelides, he's a little fucked up! And when we say we're fucked, we mean fucked-up. It is what the people say, 'the tengers have even taken'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, Mr Kostopanagiotou, for doing a surgical placement in time. Now there is the floor for Mrs Olympia Tyloridou, SYRIZA Parliamentary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will start with a comment on excellence. It is true that it disturbs many of the right of every child to be able to raise the Greek flag. They, you know, who have as the criteria to defend excellence how good you are in lessons they could say that Macrygiannis, for example, was not excellent, because Macrygiannis was illuminated. Makrigiannis, however, was the one who raised the Greek flag, when writings of his time did not honour this destination. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be understood that we are talking about a social state without talking about education and health. That is why I consider it very important yesterday and today, because two very serious bills are being discussed, which are the pillars of the formation of the social state. And it cannot be understood that we are talking about these two pillars, when they are inconsistent with the public character they must have, but they are aimed at guaranteeing profit. This bill in his philosophy emanates from this assumption, public and free health, without any "walkers" for folding and corruption phenomena, with no "walkers" in order to have those phenomena that in previous years were taking advantage of private interests. And these are recent events. It is recent that the neoliberal anarchy that prevailed in the field of health, the conclusion of national and European resources, the transformation of this top good into goods and a vehicle of enrichment. A simple example is the 'NOVARTIS' case. Simple cost: EUR 50 per piece in our country, when the same company at the same time invoiced the same product to Poland at EUR 8.2. And the committee of inquiry these days shows that we are not talking about phenomena of simple enrichment, even in the context of neoliberal deregulation, but about phenomena of illegal enrichment. This explains the fact that there is, but also the targeting towards the leadership of the Ministry of Health, which is trying to prevent these phenomena. We are determined to defend the welfare state, because it is the highest democratic concept of creating the welfare state. The other state, the state of the best friends, the state of spoil, the one that sends citizens not just to individuals, but to private deceitors, is not in our aim and perspective. Obviously, the private health sector can develop, but through rules of sound and genuine competition, not through rules and phenomena of oligopolisticism and oligopolistic cartels. We must set another example today. For two years the government has been trying to implement this. From my constituency of Kastoria I will mention as an example that another perspective has now been set at the Kastoria Hospital. Repayments of EUR 2.5 million were made. They were repaid for EEA hospitals over a period of 1.5 million euros, contracts were made for cleanliness employees with a profit of 30 thousand euros per year and with more than seven doctors and fifteen people as assistant and nursing staff. And that's just the beginning. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. The bill for primary health care, with the family doctor, the cooperation of the local and regional counties, with the efforts to decongested hospitals, with the support of remote Greece, as symbolized by the new Karpathos Hospital, is just the beginning. From now on this government and for as long as it has power in this place will continue its efforts and it cannot be stopped by any interest. So we start and continue a very serious effort so that in the health sector we have equality, universality and transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u361	Thank you to SYRIZA Parliament, Ms. Olympia Telloridou. Mrs Vayonakis, a member of the SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u362	I'll just talk about the bill. Today, then, we are discussing a good bill, a bill that, in times of economic crisis and poverty, comes to complete a project launched by this government at the beginning of its term, which was to support the collapse of a public health system, prioritised by the public hospital and with free access to it for uninsured citizens. That was where the large number of doctors hired and the rest of the staff headed. Today that the system has more stability, which has gradually changed the image of public hospitals, which is first of all the workers in them, but also the patients, we are making progress in supporting and upgrading primary health care, in which in fact in the early years of our government has been delayed. Today we are attempting to reform primary health care by supporting existing structures. In the autumn, four hundred permanent positions of doctors of the ESS will be called and will be directed to civil-type centres, as renamed the PEDY, and to country-based health centres, which provide for the operation of a dental team. Apart from this, we are building a new network of structures and services around the existing structures. In fact, the government is facing a critical institutional reluctance, which was already in existence since the implementation of the emblematic law 1397, which provided for the development of public primary care structures and - I stress this - in urban centres. Obviously there was no political will, and as a result the primary care area became privileged to develop the private sector. Yeah, we don't hide it. We are part of the public health system and this whole debate here shows very clearly, I would say, two different and divergent views. The starting point for the institutional intervention that we are currently working on in primary health care lies in the primary role of the public system, the upgrading of its function by complementary and complementary to the role of the private sector. It is indeed worth wondering how we can talk about detention in a country, in which 35% with 40% of health expenditure is private expenditure, much more than in most European countries. But let us come back to our proposal. Therefore, new regional health centers, TOMY, local health units, directed to a particular population, are created by a multidisciplinary health group involving family doctors and pediatricians, nurses, health visitors, social workers. They constitute family medicine units, with emphasis on preventive medicine, school health, vaccinations, care for the elderly. The TEMPUS are the first point of contact of the citizen with the ESS. At the same time, however, they are developing extroverted interventions, such as population information activities, visits to schools, CFPs, workplaces and so on. Each citizen will have his or her family doctor, his or her health adviser, the person responsible for managing and monitoring his or her health problems and the person responsible for keeping his or her personal electronic file. There is an expanded working hours for local health units, which will work not only in the morning but also in the afternoon, which makes it easier for citizens. It also plays a role in local government represented in the three-member management committee of the new structures and carries the climate, the needs, the priorities that society has. For the first time, too, the concept of public accountability and social control of primary care units is introduced. Central diagnostic laboratories are established, along with existing laboratories, on the subject of specific examinations - hormoneological, etc. - where citizens in an electronic way and without suffering will get the results of their examinations. Finally, because things have been said here, I say that this design is serious, it is not paper design, for two reasons: First, because it is planned to be staffed with three thousand employees, of which a thousand three hundred doctors and pediatricians, with curator I, which helps to resuscitate Brain Drain. Secondly, because it has also been guaranteed the funding of the health system in the first four years with European resources at the beginning by 100% and then gradually by national resources. I think that is a serious development by the Minister of State, Mr Haritsi. EUR 126 million has already been committed to this reform. Colleagues, I call on you to vote in favour of this comprehensive reform of primary health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u363	Thank you, Mrs. Vagonakis. Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks, Mr Lazarides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u364	Thank you very much, Mr President. In a society, two are the most sensitive areas in its operation that relate to the life of the people of this society. It's health and education. These two parties that have ruled the place for forty years have taken under the base on both sides. We heard earlier shouting and trying to create impressions, without any argument at all. What was the sensitivity of these two parties? I am talking about the five years that have ruled in the crisis. First, two hundred and fifty schools were closed. I start there because I didn't get to write to the speakers yesterday. I'm just gonna need a minute for that. The New Democracy and the PASOK therefore closed two hundred fifty schools in the five years of the crisis. That's the first. Secondly, two years in education in our home country, where students did not have books in 1946, when Greece had two years that came out of the war and was in the heart of the Civil War and in 2011 with Minister of Education Ms Diamantopoulou. These two years, the students stayed without books and in 2011 we ran - because I am a parent and I have my child and I in a public school, like most of us - and we took photos to ensure that our children had books to read. That was their sensitivity, colleagues. As far as health is concerned, I will tell you what has happened in Thessaloniki. They closed the "PANAGIA" Hospital, which was a jewel for Thessaloniki. As far as operating costs are concerned, the cost per patient credit was one third of the average and there was absolutely no complaint of doctor financing. The hospital shut down. The "GIOS DIMITRIOS" Hospital had completely abandoned it. The plasters fell. I went there once, and I really scared myself. I mean, I got depressed about where they let the hospital get to. That's how they sent the patients to the private hospitals, which they know they charged. We do not have to say this here and analyse it, because we do not have time. The "PAPAGEORGIOU" Hospital in Thessaloniki reached it on the verge of closing. Minister, the debts since 2012 have been EUR 240 million. In 2012, this government did not rule. It was 240m euros! They on purpose left it either to close or to suboptimal, while this hospital serves a lot of people from Thessaloniki as well as from the neighbouring prefectures. A few months ago, therefore, this government paid over EUR 70-80 million and cannot blame the hospital for mismanagement, because 70m euros were the hospital debts to suppliers. So it had 170 million positive results. Why would they let it close? Why did they cause him these problems? Because that was their target. That is the philosophy of neoliberalism, because the New Democracy Party has left its roots, where the ideology put in by Karamanlis was, that is, the ideology of radical liberalism and passed into neoliberalism. They mentioned different areas of Attica, but also other cities, that there was no health centre, that was not the case, that was not the case. Forty years they ruled. This government has two and a half years that govern and even two and a half years in crisis. Forty years they ruled, had the funds at the beginning full, and they got everywhere. And what did they do? Nothing. There were only problems. And they come now and blame and move the finger to this government because it has not done all that they have not done in so many years. I mean, that's their sensitivity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u365	For the signatory, tell us about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u366	I'll tell you about that. Look, I'll tell you about the zipper of excellence, without underestimating excellence. Those who highly invoke excellence do so to hide their modesty. When one is excellent one does not have to constantly invoke excellence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u367	So, do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u368	Cobbles usually invoke something when they miss them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u369	Is rewarding good?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u370	Go up to the Step, Mr. Comrade, when your time will come and develop your arguments. I didn't interrupt anyone while they were on the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u371	You're right, and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u372	I would now like to say something that happened now, in 2017, at the "Theagenio" Hospital in Thessaloniki, which has not been able for so many years by previous governments to give the room to happen. The “THEGEAN” received the first prize in an international competition held in the United States. We're talking about the Thoracic Hospital's Thoracic Hospital clinic. Amidst a crisis, we have now had this result. Ladies and gentlemen, the changes, the areas and reforms that are being promoted are considered to be extremely urgent for the multilingual public health system, which has been in disrepute for many years - and obviously not by accident - in appropriate and appropriate conditions for transactions which are also being dealt with in the Committee of Inquiry. That is why we welcome the interventions of the Ministry of Health, as they include areas of importance that organise the primary health system for the benefit of the family and citizens in general. So let's see how. Public primary health care is reconstructed in an anthropocentric model providing services through the placement of a family doctor, the establishment of local health units with a registered population of responsibility and the application of a referral system to specialised doctors and hospitals. The role of existing primary care structures, hereinafter referred to as ‘health centres’, is guaranteed and strengthened and special care is provided for the upgrading of their laboratories. They have doctors almost all specialties in order to provide specialized care for patients who either address themselves to all of them, or are referred by local units. At the same time, new decentralised structures, regional health centres, local health units, directed to a particular population, are created by family doctors and pediatricians, nurses, health visitors, social workers. The aim is to develop something new in the National Health System, as they constitute units of family medicine with an emphasis on preventive medicine, school health, vaccinations, that is, on the constant care of the citizen. This is home to the health team made up of doctors, nurses, health visitors, social workers and administrative staff. The 2020-2023 medium-term programme provides for the development of over eighty young TOMY, aiming to cover 60% of the population and finance the full development that will be carried out through funding from the state budget and the ESDP, while the administrations of the IPP took responsibility for finding economic buildings in public buildings or municipal buildings. In addition to this, they undertake to organise special treatment, physiotherapy, orthodontic, mother protection, children, adolescents, home care, data collection, electronic dating and e-government services. The state, ladies and gentlemen, has a responsibility to provide universal health coverage for citizens, something which has not happened in the past, since the political agenda and private interests have brought public hospitals to deterioration and hundreds of thousands of citizens to the limits of economic impoverishment. However, every citizen, regardless of his or her social and economic position and place of residence, has the same right to equal and high-level care and social care. Health protection is an exclusive responsibility of the State. The draft law comes to cover any gaps with the regulation of urgent and critical issues relating to the area. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. I ask for your tolerance, please. Article 27 establishes a nursing unit in Karpathos, with a capacity of twenty-two beds, the construction of which is at the final stage of completion and is built with resources of the Southern Aegean Operational Programme, co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund. I speed up my position, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, uninsured citizens, for whom so far the prediction has been that they should only be able to address public structures, too, to contact the contracted doctors of the EEAS. Every citizen, insured or uninsured will now have his or her own family doctor, health adviser, responsible for monitoring and managing his or her health problems, for keeping his or her personal electronic file, for quality care, for even greater population coverage. Ladies and gentlemen, with the development of family doctors in TOMY, with the reorientation of the work of general doctors who serve until now in health centres and in regional medicine to prevent, treat health and quality care, but also through the development of targeted and complementary new ECHPI conventions with family doctors, a health adviser is placed next to every citizen. Unfortunately, the citizen in the past used health services, mostly when he was ill. Our sole aim is for the state to provide universal coverage and care for citizens at their homes, in a way organized and referring them to higher structures of the system, if necessary. These changes that promote new, best practices for the benefit of the community as a whole, the Independent Greeks support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u373	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks Mr George Lazaridis. The speaker of SYRIZA, Antonio Balomenakis, has the floor. Mr Balomannakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Mr President. I shall speak unscheduledly, because Mr Mitsotakis, apart from quoting unrelated issues on the issue we are discussing today, has brought back to the debate an old dilemma that really separates the Left from the Conservatives, that is, whether health expenditure is or is not development. Mr Mitsotakis accused the Ministry and the planning of the government that this money, he says, of the European Union should be spent elsewhere, more developmentally. Indeed, it is a question of what is ultimately developmental. For us, as everyone sees it, development is to meet human needs on an equal footing by preventing, curing, without discrimination, which is, in the end, productive. Everyone understands the economic dimension of this choice. The gain we look forward to, ladies and gentlemen, spending money preferably on public health is precisely the good health of the population with - I repeat - good economic performance. On the contrary, for New Democracy and the followers of neo-conservation it seems that the only profit they value is this profit of private initiative and, indeed, divides us abyssed at this point. I believe, however, that Mr Mitsotakis also made revealing, once again, a person's dimension of the New Democracy's policy which, if one combines it with the past, with maritime loans, with Ghost companies' grants, with companies that have never been completed, with loans to 'former' and unsavoury, will complement the image of a truly 'philolologue' party. I'm telling you that in a lot of quotes. I think most of them have been said about usefulness, with the political choices that this bill has, of course, public health choices. It has been stressed that the starting-point difference is, indeed, supporting public health. It has been stressed that the framework within which this design is incorporated is indeed the ESS and that this design is intended for the operational restoration and completion of the design. The last comment is certainly addressed to the PASOK colleagues who prefer to be drawn up with the ghosts that the New Democracy sees, rather than with the innovative choices of the initial design of the ESS. What it will also mean for a poor, insecure, pensioner, low pensioner, reform has become clear. It became clear how close public health services are to be provided in this part of the population. It will be decompressed by misery, by the need not first of all to go to the doctor, when something serious is not to be done, rather than begging for him to be the two-tier or take part in illegal tax evasion transactions - not to forget that - to beg for elementary and self-evident things. Now he'll have - one of the prisoners - the local health unit. This is a system which is created without delay, without mediation, inclusive, a truly democratic, equal system, which will be as close to the citizen as it needs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I want to make two comments on two articles. The first, which I believe is very important as innovation, is the provision that local health units will be linked to health and safety services at work. It shows a government's orientation to link and support the most vulnerable in the relationship between an employer and a worker, who is the worker. Other colleagues have referred to Articles 19 and 20, where the innovative element is the accountability they import. I would like to end within my time by saying that this initiative by the Government goes along with the other great initiative of elastic character to investigate scandals in the field of health that is under way and already bears the first fruit. It reveals unfair transactions with a view to harming the public interest in private individuals, transactions where protagonists are alleged to be top executives and for many years favoured by parties of interactive, major economic interests and victims, as usual, equality of citizens with regard to law and economic and unobstructed access to health services.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u375	Did you get a conclusion already, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u376	I'll talk to you later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u377	But is it right what you're doing, Mr. Balomannakis now? You're president of the exam and you're getting a conclusion?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u378	I haven't come up with anything, Mr. Comrade. I'm describing the findings so far. You're making a huge mistake.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u379	What are you talking about? The process is under way. For the first time I hear that, I hear that, that he comes to the chairman of the inquiry and that he gives us a conclusion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u380	You're making a huge mistake if you think that thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u381	President of the trial to come and give us a verdict!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u382	Do you want me to repeat the wording to see how careful it is? To repeat it to see how careful it is, with the president's permission, why do I not like this convenience with which I am accused? May I, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u384	Listen, Mr. Economou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u385	You're the ones who blame you. You're getting a hit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u386	Listen, but if you don't like it, it's reality. Will you listen to me? Can I repeat my wording and see how careful it was?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u387	Repeat, Mr Balomannakis, what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u388	You don't have to. We'll see her. It's registered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u389	You say you don't have to, but don't blame me later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u390	It's been recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u391	Of course it's been recorded. They were careful one by one all my words. You don't listen well. What can I do to you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u392	You're legal. You're a lawyer. You can't do that!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u393	With these two parallel initiatives - and I have finished - we can well hope that the next day of health in Greece will be much better, that the country will finally become a modern democratic state, a servant of the citizens' social needs and a defender of its public rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u394	We shall proceed with Mr Kyriazides, the last speaker, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u395	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Balomenakis, you're president of the committee. I have heard what you have said before, that there has been a finding on the complexion, and so on. I think that you do not guarantee what you were elected to serve in the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u396	Who told you I got a finding? You have not noticed the wording. You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u397	You'll get the minutes. If you did make a mistake, you will apologise.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u398	But you, too, do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u399	Of course, but you are not allowed, as chairman of the committee, to prejudge, before the committee finishes its work.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u400	Why do you repeat it? It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u401	There's no need for a lawyer, Mr. Balomemakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u402	Quiet, please. Keep going, Mr. Cryazides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u403	Mr Tsipras also referred today to the re-election, the credibility of the country, the necessary and necessary reforms, the ones he denounced some time ago and said that he would abolish all this by a law and an article. Now they are necessary, they are necessary and, of course, necessary for creditors as well, and that is why, if you want, you have charged the country and promised it for a hundred years. Of course, that's why you're happy, because you're willing. But a country must have a stable health system, it must have a stable education system, a stable safety system. Unfortunately, this is not the way you legislate. Unfortunately, you are aiming at a state controlled to every degree. And, of course, as we speak today on health issues, there should indeed be a stable health system that improves rather than abolishes at all times, without giving any prospect. It's just that what's going on is "wrap-washed" and of course you're trying with various fireworks to cover all these gaps. For example, at the Park of Drama’s Health Center, if a minister comes, he will see that the ambulances go to the hospital’s health center to see that he has ambulances. The city of Drama is 50 km from the general hospital. Unfortunately, residents are without ambulances. I bring this as an example. Honestly, Minister, and friend, I envy you, not you, of course, the entire government in the way it works, in the way it works - if you want - of the project - which I do not know if it will be achieved - through the acquisition of consciences. In every bill you have a way of hiring, a hundred and fifty, three hundred, as with today's bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u404	Three thousand are here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u405	Three thousand recruitments through programmes or the ESDP programme, which is really about the development of the country. It is not about public wages, it is about temporary wages, because, after two years, it is next - I believe in less time - the next government will actually be loaded down and we will be abandoned for these three thousand contractors who will have to in a way again legalise them or permanentise them. This is the way of a conception of isotope, a call host system. We've seen it in adjacent countries. That's what you're trying to do. Of course, why can the private sector not offer the public? I have heard, and indeed I have cross-checked, and on your part, Minister, that 72% of the 2 billion available for health is going to the public part and 28% goes to the private part. This 28% of the treatment of patients in the private sector costs 300 million, i.e. in the public sector ten times above. You referred to issues relating to excellence, etc. The noble talk, the competition is a reward, it's a satisfaction to every employee, contestant, who wants to make an effort. We, when we make a good speech in here and report - if you like, I am ashamed of the applause of colleagues - feel a moral satisfaction. Aren't you going to give those who are struggling for a moral satisfaction? It was reported that Makrigiannis was also illiterate, but he lifted the flag. What does one have to do with the other? How does this report relate to colleagues, ladies and gentlemen? In the short term, of course, you will also be going to abolish the pan-Hellenics. I'm told the third of my four sons who's taken out law school. At Athens Law School every year there are hundreds of fifty students entering, about three thousand are candidates: "Therefore, since it will abolish the pan-Hellenics, suggest and suggest to SYRIZA" - and will be adopted for our part - "these fifty seats will be made by draw". It does not have to be done anyway, since the pan-Hellenic examinations will be abolished. Make a draw and introduce to these schools, so that you can satisfy what you often have as strickenness, doctrine or other experiences in order to meet these needs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u406	The list of speakers has been completed. I would ask you to do something about those of the rapporteurs and the special speakers who want to be seconded. As far as I can see, you've all been over time...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u407	I spoke less than the 12 minutes I was entitled to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u408	You've spoken eighteen minutes and fifty three seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u409	Me personally?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u410	Yes, it's written here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u411	I should like to say a second word, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u412	I too, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u413	Mr Athanasios Papadopoulos has the floor. Shall we agree at five minutes? This is a good time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u414	And with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u415	And with tolerance for those who will speak. So everybody's gonna talk in turn. The first rapporteur in his dentistry is SYRIZA's rapporteur, Athanasios Papadopoulos. Here, Mr. Papadopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u416	It is the House, ladies and gentlemen, that judges a draft law, which we want to make a comprehensive reform of the primary health system and promote useful structures that help support, the development prospects of the ESS and address other issues, which overall help. It is, of course, a top issue of organising separate emergency departments in a specific way and interventions, which were not called into question by the speeches. I think that the central issue that we are having is the difference of tasks that we see, our confrontation with the other political forces, and particularly with the party of Officerial Response, which has today made a summary of the diversity of perceptions that it has on our critical tasks. The Chief of Officerial Response has determined that our central differences are our relations between public and private, the equal distances of a state to public and private structures, and the supposed freedom to choose a doctor and a therapist. So it is an issue that is crucial to take a stand and all the political forces towards what we are doing. I think that the central objective of organising a quality, integrated, universal, free public health system in Greece is a declaration that Mr Mitsotakis has not avoided from doing. The question we consider is whether this draft law we are tabling contributes to the achievement of objectives that have been declared from a long time ago - we have mentioned both Mr Doxiadis and the 1397 report - and all the previous efforts. Refusal raises two main issues: first, where resources will be found, if resources have been guaranteed, if there is a concrete implementation plan. The second issue he raises is the relationship with the private health sector. Are we taking advantage of him? We abuse him? We're putting him in the band? So we think that the answer for our part is that all the things that this draft law does have an implementing plan for both the immediate phase of the two years financed by the European Social Fund, which is part of the four-year NSRF, financed, as Minister Haritsis said, with EUR 300 million in the four-year period and which, in the four-year period, is our duty to complete structures that will provide a family doctor, a health team, a record of each patient's electronic file. It is a task which we should have done and done. The refusal to be useless structures cannot in any way be substantiated. And especially by the president of PASOK, who reminded her father, the late George Gennimatas, raised the issue of ‘marketing or an anthropocentric health system’. It is an anthropocentric that we do and whose tasks are defined not by the function of the therapeutic model or the medical center, but by what we need to do to the patient as a human being, who has the right to have all that the health system can offer. He's doing it. It is therefore extremely serious that the other political forces, who consider what we are doing, should say their opinion, that is whether this large-scale section of the government's intervention is useful or useless, as the New Democracy says. The other issues you put, that we continue to have problems, that the WTO made a reference to sixty-five health centers and found problems...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u417	Research. The WTO is a centre of excellence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u418	You did it together. Now is the WTO bad?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u419	Look at where to focus our interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u420	But please, please, Mr. Papadopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u421	We do not deny that there are still significant gaps in the public health system. All the complete plan we are doing is to be able to support health centres. Urban-type health centers, the units of the PEDY, complete with the team of doctors and other therapists, public-health employees, have the full content and have the primary health care networks, where intervention with local health units is an essential element of the network. So what we are doing is a philosophy that has an effective plan that is necessary. I think that on this basis refusing to vote for this bill is a denial against our historic duties, which the Constitution also demands, that the state should make an integrated quality public health system.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u422	Thank you very much, Mr. Papadopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u423	That is the way in which we want to have your final choice in the vote and I will close with it. We are all judged, ladies and gentlemen. We are also judged on the refusal, but also on the positive contribution we are going to make. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u424	Thank you Mr Thanasis Papadopoulos, SYRIZA rapporteur. Mr Iason Fotillas, rapporteur of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u425	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, first point: I am very honoured that the entire Prime Minister has personally dealt with me, either by comparing with Nemar with politics or by following my interviews, despite the fact that he has slightly altered my words. Prime Minister, if you tell me your address, I'll send you flowers. I don't know just what address? Where you live now, in the center of Athens, in the apartment or in the villa where you grew up and became a man in the north suburbs. I don't know. Tell me which address and I'll send you flowers. So in the interview I gave to the specific radio station, to which the Prime Minister referred, what I said is that instead of creating further unnecessary, miserable state structures, which you do not even have the money to equip, you should strengthen what we already have and at the same time exploit thousands of private doctors, whether or not, who would otherwise be forced to leave the country. Second point: I heard the Prime Minister yesterday and the Minister and all of you, anyway, talking about class-based health care, and obviously implying that we favour the people who have, while protecting the weak. How do you do that? Are you protecting the weak with tax free under EUR 6000? Or with benefits cuts, like the insolence allowance, say. Is that what you're protecting the weak? Or by imposing exterior insurance contributions and taxation by means of indirect taxes? Is that what they protect the weak? People laugh. Third observation: Coverage of unsafe. Mr. Paulakis has informed me since yesterday that he intends to provide debt-insurance for the post-2014 period. I mean, after the change of the Samara - Venizelos government law. He even told me that he was waiting to ask him for an apology for every documentary that he would present to me. Eventually he didn't do it himself. Mr. Vardakis did it. So, studying these invoices, I saw that they were issued, in the first, in the seventh of 2014 and, second, in the tenth of 2014. So there I thought: 'Drough, however, the invoices were cut at the time, but the health services concern a previous period, namely, before the law, before 2 June?' But I didn't have to think too much. Let me tell you what I found out. I told you. God loves the thief. He loves the housekeeper a little bit more. And good for him, by the way. Apart from the invoices, my colleague has apparently submitted the statement of Law 105 that was made by the uninsured person on the day that he left the hospital, saying 'if the security does not pay, I will pay'. Do you know when this is? On 8-1-2014. Then the deeds were made. The invoices were cut later. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We knew you were a liar, but now it turns out you're also useless. You can't even do one of those favourite things! So to end it once and for all. I am tabling the Minutes - after I re-subscribing the invoices that I received from the Minutes, but to look at them better - the FEK on 3-6-2014, which states that 'because of the need to extend the categories of beneficiaries free of charge to hospital treatment', it was later issued by Mr Voridis on the medical coverage, 'now all uninsured Greek citizens or citizens of Greek origin or nationals of Member States of the European Union or nationals of third countries legally and permanently resident in Greece who are deprived of the condition of issuing a booklet or are insured who have lost their insurance capacity on grounds of debt'. So that's what it says. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Jason Fotillas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are found in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, I think you understand that. Mr. Paulakis, however, does not understand what that means. It means that even if you were to bring in debts today that were actually related to the period after 2-6 2014, which you did not do, even then it would simply be illegal. In other words, it would be an illegal administrative act, an omission from the administrative staff who issued it. And the patient wouldn't, of course, have any obligation to pay them off. Minister, this is the law of the state. There was therefore no need for further legislation on your part. This was obviously only for communication reasons. Mr. Polakis, give me a tip. In medicine you may have received "excellent", but in law, you are irrelevant. And being invincible is not the best, but it's not the end of the world. But being insufferable and wanting to have an opinion, when you do have an institutional authority, is a dangerous one. That is what you are, Minister: unbearable and dangerous! The only good thing is that you'll soon be in the past. Fourth point: You have tried to bring in a difficult position, thinking micro-politically, the colleagues of the Democratic Partnership, putting in your political speech and a little genome. Hey, the Genuine always sells! But, Minister, comparing the SYRIZA formula - ANEL with the glorious genomes is like comparing the brush to the eggfly! Fortunately, the Members of the Democratic Alliance did not chew. Fifth point: Amendment No 1203/85. We're really happy. Legislative improvement is a victory for us. It shows that we have rightly raised the issue, because it was about the CEDEFOP. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, you are personally honoured by the decision which will now allow the pre-requesting authorities to do their work out of hand. So you are personally honoured and it is a decision that I think you have made. I'll close up with a word about the signifiers in school.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u426	He's in grade F.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u427	It's school, it doesn't matter. I must admit that this provision is fully in line with your ideology. For these are the left-wing, the true left-wing ones, like you - because, to me, you really are left-wing. All you care about - these are the left ones - is how you become from the last first, without moving your finger. That's the point. And I tell you, a man I wasn't born on the right, I became on the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u428	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u429	You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u430	Mr President, the rapporteurs must first end and then take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u431	But it's personal. Mr Fotillas called me 'important and dangerous'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u432	And'short past'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u433	Look where she owes her mother-in-law to see it in her dream. I said it another time, don't repeat it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u434	You have the floor on personal grounds, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u435	I really am beginning to doubt the mental situation you have at your disposal. In a sign of graciousness, because my colleague, Bardakis, said so, I did not want to move on to complete humiliation and say to you, "He lifted up placards, writing "I'm sorry", because you said yesterday that no patient...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u436	Get one, you didn't bring one!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u437	Sit down, calm down. No patient after June 2014 who came out, says, "Adonis..."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u438	The whole world knows what you're talking about. You offend people's intelligence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u439	Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go,
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u440	After June.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u441	Are you serious? After June? What June?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u442	Please, let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u443	When you hold the cards in your hands and you're on TV, which shows what you want, you can twist what you have in front of you to support what you're saying. Patient first. Introduction, enters and comes out in one day on 14-7-2014. They charge him EUR 1,387. Patient second. Introduction on 9-10-2014. It comes out on 11-10-2014. They charge him EUR 1358. Patient third. Introduction on...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u444	Two of you brought in.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u445	Hey, you don't even know how to count! What am I supposed to do now? Patient third, who entered December 2015, charged him again EUR 1,387. Do you understand or don't you understand? Three are the patients.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u446	In December 2015, you were Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u447	Fourthly, the responsible statement does not concern these three patients. He's another patient if you see his name. We brought her to show what you had them signed. That's why we brought her. It says "if my insurance doesn't cover me, I'll pay them or go to taxi." So what else do you want? The whole world knows. They're assured to taxis of 28,000 euros that we're erasing now. It's a lot that's after June 2014 and it's also 2015 some that the mechanism hadn't been able to get ahead. And there's another 150,000,000 that won't go. So keep your names a little tight, because the time goes by and insist on the obvious and proud, so you're humiliating yourself. I mean, mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u448	All right, Minister. You have the floor, Mr. Lightla.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u449	Two people were brought by my colleague. The first invoice I didn't say it all, but now I'm going to say it all, so every rascal can enter his bench. In one, then, he made the mistake of presenting the law 105, which says the actions took place in January 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u450	He's another patient. We brought it in to show what you had them signed. Whatever everyone wants to understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u451	You brought him here to say he's one of them. The second patient writes up ‘other’, ‘father's name: unknown’. AMCA doesn't exist. This is an illegal immigrant, and we have said that we did not anticipate illegal immigrants. You covered up for them. Good for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u452	He was working there and found out, uninsured.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u453	Mr. Barriots has the floor for five minutes. Mr Barriotta, you spoke twenty-one minutes the first time. They've all done the same thing a little, a little, a little bit. So, the less, the better, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u454	Thank you, Mr President. I went up without a computer to be short of need. I think that both in our positions and the President, Mrs Gennimata and Mr Loverd and our fellow Members, we have also recorded our disagreements and our agreements. I therefore think that a few things can be said as a recapitulation. That's what I'll try to do. I think our main disagreement has been recorded. We are in favour of an open, decentralised, democratic system in which all resources of primary health care are used in a uniform way for the benefit of patients. That is what I think is a major reform. We have all repeatedly pointed out that it started with the establishment of the EEA and, unfortunately, it is, in our view, being delayed. We have great objections and great reservations about the creation of a state, hard-closed health system, run by the Ministry, such as what you are creating today. We are recording our disagreement and that is why we are voting against the bill. That's the box. We do not, however, cease to recognise and agree - I believe, certainly with the Government, and I also believe with the Qualifying Opposition - on the need to create an operational primary health system in Greece for the first time. From this point of view, we will always be here and we will help and support the individual actions to support the units of the primary health system. We have often pointed out the danger of once and for all being degraded by a point and then by a second-class system. If we cannot support it, as we must, within the next short period of time. I think that in this context we will be exercising constructive criticism, as much as we can, where things are improving even everyday life, which is difficult and still very difficult. Two comments I want to make. One is for the CDC. I said that yesterday and I will close with them - just two amendments. The CEDEFOP amendment has been withdrawn, probably came out of the arrangements, and that is a good sample. However, I would like to stress that here, as I said the other day, the solution is institutional. If we have problems with CEDEFOP, we are dealing with this in a specific way, an institutional intervention. I see in the same bill, unfortunately, that what he was supposed to have done in CEDEFOP, from now on, is probably beginning to do so by AEMY, whose framework, in previous legislative intervention, this government has opened up in a way that allows various actions and actions with rather dubious purity and transparency. We still have to see this on the way. In any case, Mr Loverdos will raise the issue of the IGC amendment, for which there is also one problem. I reserve it so that I don't abuse time. I close by saying that the health system is indeed a work of the Gentiles, but with an annoying repeatability, almost all SYRIZA speakers have said so. It is a pleasure to hear, even forty years of delay, from political groups and people who were usually across and complained about both the Gentiles and their descendants for privatization, commercialisation and everything, to recognise the positive effects that have been achieved in the repatriation, which in the end had not only bad aspects and negative ones. There were things that have been left, recorded and incorporated into the country. We are here and we are discussing an issue, which is very important. Unfortunately, this reform for us does not lead anywhere. It is de facto, due to the lack of funding for the project and the prospect, more a record - a declaration of good intention rather than a reform. The system needs help. I fear that we will have to discuss this with good intention and always with the intention of helping not only by the reasons, but also by the projects to support the units of the national health system and the primary one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u455	Thank you, Mr. Barriotta. Mr Aivatidis, special speaker of the Golden Dawn, has the floor. You have spoken almost the same year. In the context of equal treatment, however, you have five minutes. Here, Mr. Aivatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u456	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is reckoned that the field of health is not offered for a barren and sterile political confrontation. With full knowledge of our responsibility, we have tried to take a position on a draft law, which, if anything, is a political expression of bold political will, regardless of whether we disagree. In particular, the second part - some articles we will be voting for - solves some serious operating issues. Clearly, in the modus operandi and the central logic of this draft law, we disagree. I explained that there was a risk of gate keeping. For those who are doctors, they'll understand me. There will be an intercept syndrome to the already over-food private sector. There was a lot of talk about the Soviet model that I originally made, as a special speaker of the Golden Dawn, a report. I didn't complete the Soviet model. On the contrary, it was successful, even though we are vertically opposed to communist ideology. We always face the enemy - ideological, of course - with respect. I will say that Finland, which has partly adopted the Soviet model of the health system, has citizens who are 88% happy with the health system. In Finland, of course, municipalities and regions have a prominent role to play. I am surprised to hear the attack by the Deputy Minister of Health with which we are divided. It is not possible to hear on several occasions - I am not saying about some other designations - 'I will put you in prison' by Mr Georgiadis. Mr. Polakis, Mr. Georgiadis means that. The New Democracy had followed these practices in the past. Antonis Samaras, the former Prime Minister, told David Harris "I will put them in jail" and did so, of course, unfairly. Look out! He means it! It's really tragic to me. I'm not saying you're scared. You're obviously not afraid for me. I believe you're not afraid. But for me it is tragic that there should be health ministers who are doctors both and one non-medical. And at the moment there is a record of five hundred sixty-six beds, if I am not mistaken, based on the evidence provided by Mr Paulakis. I must acknowledge that because I was one of those who had hampered the issue of the lack of intensive care units. So it is incomprehensible to emit these threats and I repeat that the New Democracy means it. I will only stand up to two articles, because Mr Polakis yesterday with pride and a little sense of humor you probably said that you are not anti-Christians. I was very interested to see the article on the campsite that EEAY grants to the sacred metropolitan cities in order to renovate them and give them to the children of EEA officials. We welcome this and we shall be voting in favour of it. The second concerns the General Hospital of Karpathos. As it turns out, the plot was granted by the local sacred metropolis there and from what was heard this hospital will take the name "Saint John the Karpathius". St. John the Karpathius, Mr. Polakis and Mr. Xanthi, said: "As many times as you fall, rise." This applies to Golden Dawn. That is why I do not know whether they remind Mr Polakis of two numbers of something important to his political career. One number is 3.78 and the other is 7.21. They are the percentages of Golden Dawn in January and September 2015 respectively, which Mr Polakis and Mr Xanthi will be doubled in the next elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u457	We proceed with the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u458	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to the first chapter of the bill, which concerns primary health care, we, as we have said in yesterday's sitting and in the committees, are dealing with it uniformly, since its political direction and logic are uniform. The specific part of the overall draft, which relates to the primary health care system promoted by the government, clearly shows that it has nothing to do with the development of modern state health establishments, health centres, which will cover all people's needs for free. It is aimed at organising a primary health care to help further reduce state and insurance costs, with the minimum health centers, with insufficient number and specialties, with the almost complete lack of workshops and with the introduction of the TMG cutter to health centres and hospitals, workers and people will have minimal health services to go further than their modern needs for prevention, treatment and rehabilitation. This is an even more degraded health care system with cheap health and cheap services for patients and people's families. On this basis and, of course, the development we tabled yesterday in the debate in plenary, we will vote against all the articles in this bill, which concern primary health care. I shall refer to a number of articles, on which we want to table our position and opinion. With regard to Article 27 for the establishment of the General Hospital of Karpathos, in practice the abolition of the Health Center will mean even more degraded health care services and, of course, with the establishment of the hospital and similar secondary services, since the general hospital will be fully responsible for the work and the load, if you like, of the two levels of health, primary and secondary. Does the government actually place the dilemma on the island's people? "Or you will have primary health care or you will have a hospital, but not both." The only specific provision provided for in this provision is the closure of the health centre and, of course, the establishment of the general hospital with twenty-two beds, with nothing else specific. We support the fact that on the island, in Karpathos, there must be developed both public primary care units, health center, regional hospitals, etc., as well as secondary, hospital with full staff, equipment, in order to satisfy free of charge the needs of people's health services, and not just of the island. With regard to Article 28 for incentives to medical staff at the General Hospital of Thera. Doubling the calculation of the working time of subsidiary doctors will have a practical value in most cases, since recruitment with a permanent employment relationship, fulltime and employment are minimal? At the same time, it means that where local authorities, that is, municipalities, support financially, there will probably be improved staffing of health establishments and elsewhere that they will not be able to do, there will continue to be the present unacceptable situation. Apart from all this, however, there is a way of transferring spending to the public, through local taxation, so that even these elementary public health units continue to exist. As far as Article 45 is concerned, it is a matter of medical expertise. In our opinion, these are regulations relating to the implementation of the general anti-grassroots planning on health and education. Specialization is promoted as a postgraduate process and not as a direction within the years of study. The aim is to further reduce general education and strengthen skills, which will, among other things, limit the range of areas in health that nurses can use. Article 66, restructuring and rename of the EWRS. Whether the previous structure which existed or the one provided for in the new Article, the main content of the operation of this company is the costing of health services, the permanent processing and monitoring of the pricing tools of nursing services, CENs, DRGs and others. The main objective you are serving is for public hospitals to become financial, self-financed, self-financed, to operate on the basis of the development and strengthening of their business function, and from their business function and through competition to secure the corresponding financial resources, through contracts with EEAS and other insurance funds. This is a measure that serves to further implement these reactionary restructurings that have been initiated by previous governments in the field of health, in the context of the European Union's single strategy and health, which you all unite here and agree. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me just one or two minutes, Mr President, for the amendments. I'll tell you soon. I am going to speak, above all, about the ministerial amendments. The first amendment, number 1200, of Article 106 of Law 4461/17. It says "the issues of operation...". It enables the Minister with a ministerial decision to determine the operation of primary care units. We say that the issues of primary health care units cannot be determined by ministerial decisions. It is not just operational issues, but the content of benefits, etc., that these units will offer. In Amendment No 1202 on the extension of the function of subsidiary doctors, here we have a repetition and continuation of the perpetuation of temporary work. And so, while the amendment suggests that subsidiary doctors meet the needs of patients and the absence of these doctors, he says, will cause a problem of functioning in hospitals, but why are they not permanently? They're necessary. Why are they not permanently applied, which is a constant demand from both the trade union movement and operators? On the contrary, what's going on? We have an extension of temporary work. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] With regard to Amendment 1203, in the part that raised the issue of constitutionality, and so on, we agree with dealing with legal problems, in particular - and that is what comes to our vote on this amendment - that workers should be paid. I am passing through, experiencing a lousy employment status - namely, cleanliness, feeding, safeguarding - and depriving them of the right - and here is the issue - to continue working with a stable and permanent employment relationship, with full insurance rights, etc. And - why not? - the conversion of these temporary posts into permanent jobs. In Amendment No 1204, to reduce the state's pharmaceutical costs, a matter arises. There is a transfer of funds to the ECA, that is, the new social security institution, who will be asked to pay them. What does that mean? Is there going to be a problem with the benefits to the insured, that is to say by paying off these debts? As far as the ministerial amendment is concerned...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u459	Mr. Lambroulis, we need to get it together a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u460	Yes, Mr. President, I'm ending. I understand, Mr President, that I am sorry, but to say two words on a number of issues, because we have not spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u461	Because the other bill starts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u462	You're right, I agree. But he spent so much time in a controversy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u463	Okay, don't talk now. You have another minute to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u464	Yes, but now we cannot constantly press on with the rapporteurs we want at the bottom - also in our parties' view. They're not personal. With regard to the Ministerial Amendment No 1216, the second part on university doctors and the disciplinary procedure similar to the doctors of the ERC, in our opinion, is that disciplinary measures, in addition, are also concerned with the derogation of doctors from overthrows made in health. In other words, whether or not the restrictive conditions are met, the so-called health services policy at the reasonable cost - benefit of hospitals and others. I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. I shall submit a document in the Minutes, so that the Minister can take it into account. There is talk of Amendment No 1220 by Article 61, on the repayment of paid-ups for the past years and so on. Of course, the workers of all these hospitals must be paid for the years 2013, 2014, 2015. They've worked it out and they deserve it. What I will testify is the debt to the employees of the ‘General Hospital of Venizelos’ in Heraklion, Crete, due since 2012 and from what I understand it, is not included as a date for this amendment. That is why we are calling for these workers' debts to be included, too. [[At this point, F Vice-President George Lambroulis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.]] Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u465	Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u466	Thank you, Mr President. I will repeat some of the speakers who were very important to me. I listened very carefully to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Christo Manda, referring to what is happening in America with Bernie Sanders. Well, Grandpa, Bernie Sanders, this seventy-four - for those you don't know how to hear it - has started a big campaign right now in America and the whole world rises. And Donald Trump, who, as a roller, went to abolish Obamacare, smashed his face from his own Republican MPs, led by McKayne. Something must tell you. I also heard Mrs Jufi who used numbers: thirty-seven million uninsured Americans. Obama had managed to secure the seventeen million and tried to abolish it. The United States, now, is indeed the definition of private initiative, the lack of any social policy. There's a lot more right. I am not against the United States, but I believe in this particular case it was a mistake. I will still remind you of what the dear Mr. Doussina, who has spent years in Great Britain, said: "Anyone who dares to touch the health system of Great Britain will pay for it." Because you have a weak memory, I tell you it's heroism, those words are spoken. His difference from Theresa May was twenty-eight points. His biggest weapon in this election campaign - the Dozena said - was Britain's national health system. The units of twenty-eight made them two, no matter how many Members he took. I say these and I think the messages are appropriate and proportionate. It is incredible in a country like Greece, with ten to eleven million people, that private health structures are at 40%, when in Denmark the advanced is 15%, Sweden is 10% and the Netherlands is 20%. Three countries, which, I imagine, are not communist. They are countries of the European Union and I want to believe that it is another ideology, perhaps closer to your mentality. I mean, one more thing, and I'll be brief, because I know there's another bill coming in. I would like to remind you: I have heard with a passion the speaker of the New Democracy mention, raise his hand and speak of the immigrant. "How dare you give up debts to the immigrant as well?" Human life in a part of the New Democracy, how is it appreciated, huh? How they value her, so I know. He had the paper and thought it was a terrible argument that he was also glad of the immigrant, who was a illegal immigrant, had no paper and others. I mean, he's gonna die. I would also like to remind you that, when Mr Adonis Georgiadis was asked to the Committee of Inquiry, if he considers that the supermarket "Marinopoulos" and the Nynnan Hospital are comparable, he said: "Yes, I consider them to be comparable." When we told him one of them sells fruit, vegetables, etc. And the other saves lives, responds indifferently, cynically. It was I have to admit a cynical answer, not even covertness. We told him that that was where they were saving every year around four hundred and forty lives. He had twenty-eight beds. My friend Sakis the Papadopoulos is diligent. The twelve he said, guys walk around. The four are active and they have heart surgery of a day. No one's working. Life is played, that is, four hundred sixty koruna - letters so comfortable, because 'Dynan' is almost the same as 'Marinopoulos'. I still heard a lot of talk about excellence. I'll tell you what's not excellence. Exquisitely, it's not about carrying a name and that's what you get into the House and everything else. Some people should be careful in here. Some people wouldn't even be out of the House. So the word 'perfect' is everything, if you like. Pardons are in here too many. It's not a crime, it's not a criminal offence, it's a matter of moral order, and we'd do better to be more modest in it. I don't want to say any more. I think - and I shall end, Mr President - that half the Greek society at this moment in crisis, for which this government is not the fault, really needs primary health care. We who lived in public hospitals know that this is not the right thing when I have a separating aneurysm when I have a heavy car crash, when I have a heart attack, to deal with the tertiary hospital with incidents that should have already been filtered. It's something that should have been done 30 years ago. They had it announced, they didn't. They didn't, because the private initiative had huge interests to go on. They're two worlds, I say it again, and it separates us abyss. They are the unscrupulous children of the market and they are society. This difference also exists in this bill, as in that of the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u467	Thank you. Because it's typically five minutes, with tolerance, if you want, you can talk...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u468	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u469	Mr. Fotella, there's no staff. I didn't hear the name.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u470	He said I said the immigrants would die.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u471	He didn't say that. Well, sit down. You don't have the floor right now. I've already spoken to Mr. Fokas. I'll talk to you later. You and your position, Mr. Fokas, to get time. And you, Mr. Black. Here, you have the floor, Mr. Fokas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u472	Thank you, Mr President. We recognise that most of the amendments actually have a relevant subject and are the responsibility of the legislator of the Ministry. That may be the only positive thing that an optimistic man can find in today's rain of amendments. Unfortunately, the Minister's already increased powers are further strengthened by the predictions of some amendments to adopt and new ministerial decisions. We are impressed by the extension of the compulsory period of two years with the possibility of transfers and secondments provided for in Amendment No 1202. Many of the committees you are recommending are unreserved. This, in conjunction with the established position of the Central Association of Central Banks that such committees must be all unpaid, leads us to vote'residents' in many of the amendments, yet recognising the importance of the work they are called upon to provide. For the reason that we in the Central Association are not oppositioning the opposition, I will refer to a few amendments to justify our position as well: For Amendment No 1213 we say 'yes' to protect employees and not to prosecute them. For Amendment No 1173 we will say 'the present' because we do not know whether there are economic benefits, Mr Minister. For Amendment No 1200 we say 'the present', because we are sceptical about the application of the new system as a whole and this provision is part of it. For Amendment No 1202, we will say 'no', because it abolishes the compulsory two-year service in one place and allows the employee to be transferred before it is completed. For Amendment No 1203 we will say 'yes', because it legalises the costs of cleaning, feeding and maintaining electromechanical equipment and determines the payment of accrued supplies. On Amendment No 1204 we shall say 'the present'. For Amendment No 1205 we say 'yes', because it concerns payment of the costs of the Ministry of National Defence for the transport of refugees and migrants from CBELs and tourist agencies. We shall also say 'yes' for reasons of sensitivity to the Hansen disease healers, the known leprosy. We will also say 'yes' Amendment No 1208 because it integrates doctors who have not yet received a specialization in the system of newspapers in the ESS in order to meet the great needs that exist. We shall also say 'yes' in Amendment No 1210 because it enables children to prescribe vaccines against allergies. In Amendment No 1210 we declare that we are present. In Amendment No 1219 we say 'yes', we agree. In Amendment No 1216 we also say 'yes', but if the members of the new institution are unpaid. In Amendment No 1218, too, we shall say 'yes'. In Amendment No 1215 we also say 'yes', because it extends the incentives for the stay of qualified doctors in fertile areas. In Amendment No 1220 we will also agree and say 'yes', because it arranges compensation for on-call and overtime staff. Finally, with Amendment No 1214 we will also agree and say 'yes', because it restores the unequal treatment of supplementary hospitals in the ESS with those of the National Rehabilitation Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u473	Thank you. Mr. Mavrosh has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u474	Thank you, Mr President. I will start by saying that I am pleased that the Prime Minister also acknowledges that Potami is a nursery. Three rapporteurs in the bill come from this. It's kind of like Ayax of politics, a group renowned for her nursery. It is only enough that political life is not entirely played, because alas, if the political parties act as football teams and grab players in the middle of the season. Of course, SYRIZA - and that is why the Prime Minister speaks safely - the transcriptions he has made in the normal political period. Also, I am surprised to hear the Prime Minister say about signifiers seven and eight years old. Really, where has he seen this? I don't know at what age they become signifiers in private schools, but in public they do at 12. It is not the flag, but the possibility of distinguishing children. Let's go to the bill. We talked about it yesterday. We have expressed our criticisms and reservations, but we have also raised whatever positive elements it has, as is the individual e-health file in Article 21. However, this should also be planned, otherwise it will remain a wish. Something we have not mentioned, Minister, but it is worth looking at in the course of the course, is whether in the special care centres, in Article 9, the activity of'medical care centres and the diagnosis of occupational diseases' is added, which makes sense, because workers in companies and businesses with under fifty employees do not have such services. Apart from your primary health care plan, the bill includes a number of other fragmentary provisions for doctors, administrative structures and hospitals. As we speak of hospitals in Karpathos and Thera, let us see the eastern Attica, which is compared to the most populous part of the country, with five hundred thousands of inhabitants, who do not have hospitals, while they have ports and the main airport of the country, i.e. basic infrastructure. There's been years the shell from the "Eussian Hospital", which would become a pioneering center for neoplasms and now it is devastated. Let's see that sometime too. I'm saying this without any localist odor. After all, you will have seen that I also have no localist questions. We've asked questions about twins, about Samothraki, about these areas. Since I referred to parliamentary control, on the basis of yesterday's statement, Minister, on the page of this House, because we had had this debate, I would like to say that you have only answered one question from the last seventeen months. Indeed, there were questions of central interest, such as, for example, the number of nursing staff seconded to parties, MPs, ministries and administrative services, that is, they are outside the first line, and more specific questions about problems of many hospitals with the magnetic and axial tomographs, as well as my favorite issue about smoking, especially in closed racing spaces. I was amazed, because we have had a lot of discussions and I know that you and the Deputy Minister are sensitive to this issue. The parentheses are closed. With the parliamentary amendments, I still think there has been a party. Any ministerial amendment you did not want to cost it as a parliamentary amendment. That's enough. Ladies and gentlemen, primary health care for our country needs treatment, but not a placebo and virtual treatment. I fear that the planned system may have good intentions, but we are not convinced of the possibility of sustainable implementation. When we say a public health system, we must stress that this is also provided by state structures and also by private individuals. The question is the balance, in order to cover the entire part of the population, to have freedom of choice and to limit artificial demand. If the private sector develops the system more, if artificial demand is created, you are right. But if he's leaning more into the state sector, he'll create red tape. In both cases resources are not best used. They have to catch a place the money they go to public health and not be spent pointlessly. Therefore, primary health care should not end up with a firearm hiring some people, but then they cannot be supported by the system. In this bill you unfold your plan for primary health care and, from the number of about fifty speakers from SYRIZA, you show that it is a bet for the government and that you do believe in it. I wish, frankly, that I hope and hope - although experience, design and numbers, unfortunately, do not advocate - that the life of the TOMMs should not be short. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u475	I give the floor to Mr Loverdos for three minutes, which would like to supplement an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u476	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say two things to the Minister and finally to conclude, for a few seconds, the amendment we have been discussing since yesterday. First of all, if there is to be anything in the Minutes, it has been said that all the persons mentioned by you or your MPs who are moving in the field of the Central Left or PASOK - everything that is alive - and which you underline very positively supported our policies by 2012. Secondly, I told you on the first day that I avoid objecting to constitutionality on issues that the Scientific Studies Directorate tells you. There are two or three comments made in the regulatory acts provided for in your provisions and they are about thirty of them. Two or three of them suggests you by Scientific Studies Directorate that they require a decree. If the address is right, you are involved, which will create delays in what you want to do, with which we do not agree. But here, your Members and you personally are defending it in a very strong way. You will be responsible, not for the judges, if you do not make any changes to what the committee suggests. Because you brought the innermost of the draft law, we're probably done and it's free to discuss it. Thirdly, when you speak, and put the Prime Minister to tell you about the costs of the private sector, what the public is paying for the private health sector, you include from what I understood from the course of the debate - I would have told you yesterday in my speech - and the arrangements for my own, which have allowed for the first time - the President who is a doctor will understand - all doctors in the country to prescribe, and many times people will not pay anything, if they are off the list of people covered by the EEA, to pay a small contribution and their examinations are often free of charge, let them be in medical centres or diagnostic centres. This whole Greece-wide extensive reform of my own, structural change, you go and narrow it. You're squeezing her. Although you have made a change and said that for the emergency, the emergency, you can go to your doctor, in this way, when you walk your draft law, you are getting as close as you can to these citizens. This, however, is not a private sector. This is a citizen's service, above all. I'm hanging up. You have tabled an amendment. I want to vote for it. I've been through her as a Minister of Health. Mr President, I have been arrested at the Thessaloniki Hippocrates with an envelope from here to you, to ask the dean to take him disciplinary, to leave after a year and a half from the Ministry and still not done, not to have been called disciplinary. It says now that the Ministry, rightly in consultation with the Ministry of Education, will resolve this issue and will bring an amendment yesterday. Neither CEN nor does the Directorate for Scientific Studies go through. I'm telling the Minister. Have you searched it? Does that cause problems in practice? Observations begin to come from everywhere and say that, since it makes no distinction as to which offences they go to the disciplinary bodies of the ERC, the university teachers who are also ERC doctors - the amendment refers to them - and leaves it as it stands...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u477	They're not ERC doctors, they're working at the ERC hospitals.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u478	Right, that's the exact expression. So instead of a bad situation that is today, the Minister chooses a wording - he does not understand it, he does not want it, but there he does - that confuses things where scientifics are confusing with clinical responsibilities and give arguments to those who are in trouble to go to court and win. I said to him: can we find a better wording? I advise you. If you want, you can hear it. If you don't want to, throw it away. Take her back for a month. You made a commission that is the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health. Let her study it, find the best possible wording, and we will vote on it. If you keep it that way, even though we want this change to happen, we do not want to be accountable for having voted for something that is ultimately not being implemented. That's one - to get back the word advice, because I don't like it - the insertion of parliament. If you want, count it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u479	Understood. Mr. Fotillas has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u480	I too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u481	You, Mr. Bardakis, for what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u482	Mr Fotillas referred to my name, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u483	Okay, but now we're closed. The draft law and the one-hour vote are awaiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u484	It's a very serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u485	All right, you'll do it for me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u486	I didn't mention...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u487	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u488	Calm down, you don't have the floor, Mr. Bardakis. Nothing is written at all. Mr Fotillas has the floor for a minute strictly, with great attention to your wording.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u489	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papachristopoulos mentioned a moment ago in this Chamber that I supposedly said the immigrant would die. That's, at least, disgusting. So I said that, apart from illegal immigrants, all the others had been covered by the Georgian law. And I proved it. As for the immigrant dying, it's not a matter. Because both the specific immigrant and all those in need were taken care of. That's what happened anyway. That document you brought us today. So there's no question of him dying! What just happened was that, in second year, they were charged with expenses.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u490	We heard...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u491	In any case, Mr President, I would like to remind you that, with the vote of the Vice-President and the President of the New Democracy himself, the children of migrants had the Greek citizenship, when Mr Papachristopoulos' group had gone on a trip.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u492	Mr. Fotella, the staff is done. Don't open any more topics!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u493	Mr. Papachristopoulos, you are... and...!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u494	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u495	Mr. Papachristopoulos, sit down. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Fotella, Mr. Mada, excuse me, there is a Bureau! Calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u496	You're begging the real facts!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u497	Mr. Bardakis, Mr. Fotella, both listen. It's too easy to get up and put you first sentence. With me in the Bureau that's cut! Mr Fotella, with your consent - which I am sure I have - your last two words are deleted from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u498	Without meaning I don't believe them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u499	Delete from the Minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u500	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u501	It's over, Mr. Papachristopoulos, please don't be delayed. These words have been erased.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u502	Just the conclusion "to die the immigrant" did not refer to what Mr Fotillas said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u503	I figured it out, and I'd fill it out. He didn't say you said that. He wondered: "What about the immigrant? Die?’ That's it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u504	Like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u505	All right, sit down. We're done. You, Mr. Vardakis, why are you asking for the floor? You have the floor for a minute and we're done. We should have started the other bill, and we lost the show in the House today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u506	Mr President, I will answer if you give him the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u507	Mr. Fotella, do you have the impression that because you belong to the New Democracy, can't I invite you to class? I say, did you get that impression? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Calm down, please, all of you! Mr Vardakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u508	My colleague concluded that, because the patient's name was not recorded in the document, he is an illegal immigrant. That's what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u509	Look at the paperwork you brought.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u510	What was the staff for you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u511	He mentioned my name and said, "God loves the liar, but also loves the householder." About what? For some documentary evidence I filed before he came to the House. It is very serious, Mr President. Mr. Fotellas deliberately concealed the responsible statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u512	What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u513	That's what I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u514	Mr. Vardakis, I left you, you said it, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u515	I shall conclude, Mr President. I therefore inform the Bureau and my colleagues that the responsible statement I made belongs to another person. The immigrant implied by Mr. Fotilias is legally resident in our country and thirdly concealed a case in 2015 and one in August 2014, which entered a ticket and a specific date after the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u516	All right, you're done. Minister, you have the floor for ten minutes and you're closing. You're mild. Answer where we need to, because we need, I inform you, an hour for the vote. So you realize what that means to the next bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u517	Don't push him, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u518	No, I'm pushing, because if everyone was pushing, we'd be done now. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u519	We have said this in the debate, which was quite noisy, that this intervention involves a very large deficit in the public health system, the development of an organised network of primary health care services, where there was really the great gap, which is the urban centres. This intervention, therefore, has a qualitative difference in relation to the corresponding efforts and projects of the past. It is that it is accompanied by an effective implementation plan. We have the pleasure today of announcing by voting for the bill that the notice of approximately three thousand doctors and other health doctors was posted in DIAGIA with the approval of the AACC. We're putting it in the Minutes. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] [[At this point, the Minister for Health, Mr Andreas Xanthos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] The deadline is from the next Tuesday until the 25th of the month for the medical doctors and healthcare professionals concerned throughout the country to serve new structures that will support and upgrade public care and will obviously not be a party army and people who will serve some SYRIZA polling centers across the territory. We, ladies and gentlemen, in these two, two and a half years in which we have tried and have responsibility for the management of the health system, have done three important things, which you have not understood. You did not think of them all over the previous period of Memorandum Governance. Firstly, crucial and decisive, we have ensured the universal coverage of the citizens of this country. You have the courage to say even today, which we are definitively closing this openness, even today, which is evidenced by evidence that the people who are forced to do so, because there was no other choice, had taken care of the public health system, had accepted the financial burden, you have the courage to say that this problem had been faced with a joint ministerial decision of Adon Georgiadis since 2014. You insult the intelligence of hundreds of thousands of citizens who began learning it by about a year ago. They began to find out when administrations entered the public hospitals. Until June 2016 there were employees in hospitals, doctors and service agents who said: “What insecure? Tsipras is making fun of you. There is no law, we know nothing." So you have the nerve to say that all of this world, which was nervous at the time of the illness, who was afraid that if he went to the public hospital to get chemo or to perform a serious surgery, he should be unbearably charged, this world said it was being served. So I read to you this notorious KYA, which said that for the hospitality of uninsured citizens and not to pay, the patient should have been examined by a special three-member committee, one of which was the administrative and financial director of the hospital. With absolutely scientific criteria, these people would judge who needs hospitality! Secondly, there was a very critical intervention at the end, which you have concealed, which said that the members of this committee will be subject to the control of the EDPS. So what was the signal? "Watch out who you're going to approve. You will check if you make the system wide and make people hospitalised without having to sign a debt acceptance declaration and go after the hospitals in taxi." That was an unbelievable custom, that was the gate keeping real in public care. In fact, at the time, the only free choice, for which you are concerned, that uninsured citizens were either addressing social hospitals or addressing the sensitivity of the staff of the public hospitals in the country. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So let's get this over with with the mocking. We have closed a huge gap, we have faced a huge social problem, the problem of 'health poverty' in the country. We brought him, ladies and gentlemen, into the public debate and brought him, when he began to become known worldwide, when there was scientific literature in Europe, when they began to cry at international scientific conferences, when the humanitarian organizations came out and said that there is a health tragedy in Greece, when the World Health Organization handed over to the Samara - Venizelos government and told them that I cannot cooperate with you unless you do not address the problem of uninsured people. They made a setup, no one learned it, no one was propagandaing it anywhere, and they let her in the jungle pass, no one insecure knew he was covered. Today, then, the figures are coming. I'm not getting into this nonsense, really nonsense. There was a debt in hospitals, and the whole world knows and had gone to the tax office of 28 million euros and there are dozens of other millions, which we blocked since the beginning of 2015, so that these are not sent to the tax offices as well. Today, therefore, the regulation of Law4368, which has been in operation for a year and a half, has produced the following result. A hundred thousand uninsured citizens using their AMKA every month are prescribed for medicines worth EUR 10 to EUR 12 million and laboratory tests worth EUR 5 million. The KYA, signed by Minister Vorides, on the medicine, had been exploited, with the special electronic platform at the time of e-prescription, because the world did not know about it, by a mere percentage, which did not exceed 800 thousand per month. And now it's 10 to 12 million euros a month. So this is the huge, catalytic intervention that this government has made in the area of public care. We are proud of this and we are grateful for the people who have accepted these services.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u520	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u521	The second critical intervention we have made and, of course, you did not think about it, was that we supported the public health system in a very structured way and at a mass level for the first time. So we managed to keep it up, despite the accumulated problems, despite the fact that in 2015 it was in a collapse orbit. So they can and there are even exceptional hospitals, of course, which operate and provide good services. The President of the New Democracy discovered that there are also good health centres, such as in Areopoli. Of course, it's not just the Health Center in the Areopolitan, which really does an excellent job and we know people too. There are dozens throughout the country who, despite problems and difficulties, offer excellent care at this time. The third thing we have done, of course, is what we call 'ethicalisation' of the health system. You haven't even heard of that one before. This is why a political force which has not had any relations with dependency and interactivity with the phenomena of the past has said that we will, of course, redeem this system and, of course, provoke interventions that will stop provoking demand, waste, corruption and the exploitation of the disease. CEDEFOP is a very distinct story in this case. It is the epitome of interlocutory, customer relations, of interests transactions and of corruption. But, at the same time, it is also a critical public health protection body and has excellent scientific potential and excellent health professionals, who are really alert, to prevent threats to public health, to intervene when cases of infectious diseases occur. That is what we have achieved, with this human resource, for which we recognise that there is also a loose end, which we have not been able to regulate in this bill, for a deletion of sums unduly paid, which was not their responsibility, but the responsibility of the previous administrations, how certain allowances were granted. We therefore recognise this debt and state in all respects that resolution in this area has begun. We have fired the central person, the key person, the one who was the nuclear element around which the entire system of corruption and interlocutory was structured, and we state in all respects that resolution will continue to perpetuate the political protectors of this clique!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u522	At the same time, finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u523	Allow me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u524	I've already allowed you to talk three minutes further. I'm not going to show any further tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u525	Listen to me, please. I've been listening carefully for eight hours today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u526	I don't care about that. I am interested in the Rules of Procedure, which you have now violated in your prototype. You have two minutes to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u527	Mr Barriot said: 'Good, what are you going to do with the CCTB? Will you just get the abscess?’ The answer is that, of course, in consultation with his administration, we already have a draft amendment of an organisational chart, even a change of name, precisely to indicate the disfellowshipping of the vicious past and the realisation of the scientific and administrative nature that needs to come to this body. I believe that we will be able in the autumn to legislate on this in order to close this period definitively. These are, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, different worlds. That's the truth. You closed structures, we open structures. You were persecuting doctors, we were giving extensions to the contracts of doctors' servants, and we hire new ones. You covered the 'partner', we do a committee of inquiry to investigate the 'partisan' and, if there are any criminal responsibilities, because the politicians are self-proof, to political persons and to state officials. You believe in the market and we believe in public health. Speaking of primary care, you don't understand anything. You've got something on Alma Ata sometime, but you have no idea what this thing means. So we are telling you that primary health care is a project of equality and solidarity, and that, ladies and gentlemen, is incompatible with the market. Primary health care does not just mean non-nursal services. Primary health care means prevention, it means health care, it means school hygiene, it means occupational hygiene, environmental hygiene, it means intervention in the community. Are you telling us that this is going to be the private sector? Is the private sector interested in all this? Do they contribute to its profitability?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u528	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u529	We therefore believe that these services, this new model, the new vision for primary care and the health system can only offer it public structures, with people dedicated to public care, and that is what we are doing right now. Mainly primary health care is the primary service which is not only a medical matter. That is why it is wrong to say: 'Why do you not contribute to the free trade doctors?' Primary health care is a team business. He wants more health professionals. The family doctor cannot alone, even if he has culture, do all these interventions and ensure all this change in the example, as has already been pointed out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u530	Minister, we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u531	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u532	Yeah, but get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u533	I shall conclude, Mr President. Critical reforms and serious changes and transformations require certain conditions. The first is to have a social need for these changes, the second is to have a strong political will, the third is to have social alliances and the fourth is to have social alliances, and a decisive one many times, is to have the right people. Here, then, what we have to say is that, in these four main conditions, this government has ensured that these changes are implemented and implemented. I think that history of resources has ended today by the Deputy Minister of State, Mr Haritsis. Social alliances are also under way and we believe that patient associations and health professionals and young doctors, but we believe that the general doctors in the country will support this important intervention and change. But it is also the issue of people, and here let me close this way, really, because I want to say this. It is not only the two ministers, who are people who are organic in relation to public care, who have a familiar route and a path of dedication and struggle in the public health system. Don't consider this an attempt to bless our beards. However, we must say that in this Chamber and in this government majority there are also many other colleagues who have identified their lives and their journey to the health system with this struggle for public care. From Nikos Manios, Christos Manda, Sakis Papadopoulos, Merope Jufis, George Caisa, Elias Kostopanagiotou, Tasos Kourakis, to all people and forgive me if I forget someone... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Of course, I'll say about Papachristopoulos in the end. Excuse me for...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u534	Minister, here's what I'll tell you now. If you don't close, I'll turn you off the microphone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u535	I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u536	No, now you're closing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u537	Yeah. Nico Igoumenides, Mimi Rizzo, so I don't forget them, who...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u538	Well, the whole SYRIZA parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u539	Look, these are our own reference persons for public care. What's yours?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u540	Well done, that's it! Say it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u541	This is the seal of honesty, dignity, ethos and agonism for the Left, which will guarantee this very important reform.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u542	Good! Praise me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u543	Mr President, please speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u544	Mr. Georgiadis, what's the staff? For just a minute, I'll give you the floor, and I'll judge if there's any staff. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] I didn't hear you complain when, instead of ten minutes, I let the Minister speak eighteen! You're very welcome. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u545	The Minister in his attempt to respond to Mr. Fotella's revelation that the uninsured had been covered in my day, said: 'We have offended intelligence', i.e. I, 'the uninsured'. I think that, Mr President, this is a serious charge and I need a minute to explain it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u546	Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for just a minute. I'm timed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u547	Minister, you have taken a big step forward today. For two and a half years even in SYRIZA's TV spots, you've been advertising the one good thing you've done and it's been covering the unsafe ones. Today you accepted firsthand with my law, drugs with the Voridis Ministerial Decision, and what did you find to say? That in hospitals there was, he says, a three-member committee. A three-member medical committee from the hospital, which would decide whether the uninsured person really needed this surgery.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u548	It was for the needy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u549	For uninsured people, and the Minister knows that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u550	It was for the needy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u551	Mr. Vardakis, the insecure is usually destitute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u552	It was for the needy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u553	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u554	Read the FEK.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u555	Mr. President, please! He's interrupting me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u556	Calm down! Mr. Vardakis, the uninsured is usually indebted, has no money.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u557	The Greek people have learned now. Uninsured people have been covered by me. You know how? I've been negotiating with the troika for six months to agree to pass this law. You guys found it all up and you didn't have a good word to say about anyone - let me - of your predecessors. Do you know why? All the people you mentioned are to bless the beards among you. Get out in society, let's see what they say about you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u558	We're done, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u559	That's where to count. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u560	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u561	Minister, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u562	We come from society, that's why we've been MPs, and I won't allow you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u563	Mrs. Jufi, you're usually calm.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u564	But please! Finally!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u565	Calm down, because I too could be misunderstood and ask for personal attention, because I am supposed to be an analgesic.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u566	Of course, all of us!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u567	Please, we're done! The debate on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Reforming the Primary Health Care, urgent arrangements of the Ministry of Health and other provisions" is hereby concluded. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u568	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u569	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u570	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u571	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u572	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u573	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u574	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u575	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u576	The Health Ministry's draft law therefore: ‘Reforming the Health Care Primary, urgent arrangements of responsibility of the Ministry of Health and other provisions’ was accepted in principle by a majority. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u578	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u579	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u580	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u581	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u582	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u583	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u584	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u585	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u587	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u588	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u589	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u590	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u591	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u592	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u593	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u594	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u596	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u597	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u598	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u599	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u600	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u601	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u602	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u603	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u605	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u606	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u607	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u608	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u609	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u610	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u611	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u612	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 5 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u614	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u615	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u616	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u617	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u618	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u619	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u620	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u621	Article 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u622	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u623	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u624	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u625	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u626	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u627	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u628	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u629	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u630	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u631	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u632	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u633	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u634	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u635	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u636	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u637	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u638	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u639	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u640	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u641	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u642	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u643	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u644	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u645	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u646	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u647	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u648	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Can Article 9, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u649	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u650	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u651	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u652	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u653	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u654	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u655	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u656	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u657	Article 9 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 10 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u658	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u659	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u660	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u661	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u662	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u663	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u664	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u665	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u666	Article 10 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u667	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u668	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u669	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u670	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u671	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u672	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u673	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u674	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u675	Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 12 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u676	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u677	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u678	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u679	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u680	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u681	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u682	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u683	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u684	Article 12 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does the House agree to Rule 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u685	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u686	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u687	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u688	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u689	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u690	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u691	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u692	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u693	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u694	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u695	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u696	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u697	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u698	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u699	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u700	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u701	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u702	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u703	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u704	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u705	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u706	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u707	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u708	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u709	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u710	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u711	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u712	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u713	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u714	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u715	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u716	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u717	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u718	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u719	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u720	Article 16 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u721	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u722	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u723	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u724	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u725	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u726	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u727	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u728	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u729	Article 17 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 18 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u730	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u731	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u732	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u733	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u734	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u735	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u736	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u737	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u738	Article 18 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u739	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u740	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u741	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u742	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u743	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u744	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u745	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u746	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u747	Article 19 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 20 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u748	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u749	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u750	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u751	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u752	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u753	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u754	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u755	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u756	Article 20 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 21 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u758	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u759	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u760	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u761	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u762	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u763	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u764	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u765	Article 21 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 22 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u766	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u767	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u768	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u769	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u770	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u771	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u772	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u773	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u774	Article 22 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 23 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u775	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u776	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u777	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u778	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u779	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u780	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u781	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u782	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u783	Article 23 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 24 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u784	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u785	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u786	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u787	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u788	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u789	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u790	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u791	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u792	Article 24 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 25 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u793	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u794	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u795	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u796	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u797	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u798	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u799	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u800	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u801	Article 25 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u802	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u803	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u804	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u805	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u806	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u807	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u808	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u809	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u810	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u811	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u812	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u813	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u814	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u815	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u816	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u817	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u818	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u819	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 28 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u820	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u821	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u822	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u823	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u824	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u825	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u826	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u827	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u828	Article 28 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u829	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u830	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u831	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u832	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u833	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u834	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u835	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u836	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u837	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 30 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u838	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u839	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u840	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u841	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u842	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u843	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u844	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u845	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u846	Article 30 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u847	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u848	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u849	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u850	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u851	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u852	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u853	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u854	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u855	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u856	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u857	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u858	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u859	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u860	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u861	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u862	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u863	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u864	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u865	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u866	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u867	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u868	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u869	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u870	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u871	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u872	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u873	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u874	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u875	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u876	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u877	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u878	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u879	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u880	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u881	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u882	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u883	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u884	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u885	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u886	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u887	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u888	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u889	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u890	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u891	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u892	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u893	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u894	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u895	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u896	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u897	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u898	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u899	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u900	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u901	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u902	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u903	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u904	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u905	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u906	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u907	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u908	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u909	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 38 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u910	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u911	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u912	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u913	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u914	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u915	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u916	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u917	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u918	Article 38 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 39 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u919	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u920	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u921	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u922	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u923	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u924	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u925	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u926	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u927	Article 39 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u928	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u929	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u930	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u931	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u932	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u933	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u934	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u935	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u936	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u937	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u938	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u939	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u940	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u941	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u942	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u943	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u944	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u945	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u946	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u947	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u948	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u949	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u950	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u951	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u952	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u953	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u954	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u955	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u956	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u957	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u958	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u959	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u960	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u961	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u962	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u963	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u964	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u965	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u966	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u967	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u968	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u969	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u970	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u971	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u972	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 45 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u973	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u974	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u975	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u976	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u977	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u978	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u979	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u980	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u981	Article 45 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u982	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u983	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u984	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u985	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u986	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u987	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u988	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u989	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u990	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u991	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u992	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u993	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u994	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u995	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u996	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u997	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u998	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u999	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1000	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1001	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1002	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1003	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1004	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1005	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1006	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1007	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1008	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to Rule 49, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1009	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1010	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1011	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1012	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1013	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1014	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1015	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1016	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1017	Article 49 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 50 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1018	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1019	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1020	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1021	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1022	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1023	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1024	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1025	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1026	Article 50 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1027	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1028	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1029	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1030	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1031	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1032	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1033	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1034	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1035	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1036	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1037	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1038	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1039	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1040	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1041	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1042	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1043	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1044	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1045	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1046	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1047	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1048	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1049	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1050	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1051	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1052	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1053	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1054	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1055	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1056	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1057	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1058	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1059	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1060	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1061	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1062	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 55 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1063	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1064	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1065	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1066	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1067	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1068	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1069	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1070	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1071	Article 55 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 56 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1072	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1073	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1074	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1075	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1076	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1077	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1078	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1079	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1080	Article 56 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 57 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1081	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1082	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1083	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1084	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1085	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1086	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1087	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1088	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1089	Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 58 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1090	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1091	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1092	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1093	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1094	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1095	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1096	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1097	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1098	Article 58 has therefore been accepted as majority. Can Article 59, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1099	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1100	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1101	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1102	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1103	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1104	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1105	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1106	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1107	Article 59 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 60 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1108	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1109	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1110	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1111	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1112	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1113	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1114	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1115	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1116	Article 60 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 61 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1117	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1118	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1119	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1120	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1121	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1122	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1123	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1125	Article 61 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by adding paragraph 3 of the Amendment No 1220/100, by a majority. Will Rule 62 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1126	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1127	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1128	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1129	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1130	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1131	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1132	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1133	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1134	Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 63 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1136	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1137	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1138	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1139	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1141	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1142	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1143	Article 63 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 64 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1144	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1146	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1147	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1148	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1150	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1152	Article 64 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 65 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1153	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1155	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1156	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1157	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1160	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1161	Article 65 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 66 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1162	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1163	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1164	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1165	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1166	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1168	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1169	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1170	Article 66 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 67 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1173	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1174	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1175	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1176	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1178	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1179	Article 67 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 68 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1188	Article 68 has therefore been accepted as unanimously. Does this House accept Rule 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1189	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1192	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1193	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1196	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1197	Article 69 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 70 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1198	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1199	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1200	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1201	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1202	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1205	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1206	Article 70 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 71 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1208	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1209	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1210	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1215	Article 71 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 72 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1216	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1217	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1219	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1220	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1221	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1224	Article 72 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 73 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1226	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1228	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1229	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1233	Article 73 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 74 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1234	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1235	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1236	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1237	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1238	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1242	Article 74 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 75 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1243	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1244	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1246	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1247	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1248	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1251	Article 75 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 76 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1253	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1255	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1256	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1260	Article 76 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 77 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1261	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1262	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1263	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1264	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1265	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1266	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1268	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1269	Article 77 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority. Will Rule 78 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1271	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1272	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1273	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1274	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1275	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1276	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1277	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1278	Article 78 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 79 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1279	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1280	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1281	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1282	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1283	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1284	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1285	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1286	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1287	Article 79 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 80 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1288	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1289	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1290	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1291	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1292	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1296	Article 80 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 81 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1298	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1301	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1302	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1304	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1305	Article 81 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 82 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1307	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1308	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1309	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1310	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1314	Article 82 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 83 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1316	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1317	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1318	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1319	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1323	Article 83 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 84 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1325	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1326	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1327	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1328	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1332	Article 84 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 85 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1334	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1335	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1336	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1337	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1341	Article 85 was therefore accepted as majority. Will Rule 86 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1343	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1344	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1345	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1346	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1347	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1349	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1350	Article 86 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 87 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1351	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1352	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1353	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1354	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1355	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1359	Article 87 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 88 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1361	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1363	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1364	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1365	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1368	Article 88 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 89 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1370	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1371	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1372	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1373	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1377	Article 89 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 90 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1379	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1381	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1382	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1386	Article 90 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 91 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1388	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1389	Yeah. JOANNIS AVATIDE OF Presentations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1390	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1393	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1394	Article 91 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 92 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1395	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1396	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1397	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1398	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1399	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1400	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1401	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1402	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1403	Article 92 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 93 as such be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1404	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1405	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1407	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1408	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1409	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1410	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1412	Article 93 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 94 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1413	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1414	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1415	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1416	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1417	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1418	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1419	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1420	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1421	Article 94 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will the amendment be accepted under a general number of 1202 and a special number 84, as amended by the Minister, which, after the vote, will be referred to as Rule 95?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1423	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1424	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1425	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1427	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1428	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1429	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1430	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1202 and a special 84 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the amendment be accepted under a general number 1203 and a special number 85, as amended by the Minister, which will, after the vote, be referred to as Article 96?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1431	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1432	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1433	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1434	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1435	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1436	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1438	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1439	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1203 and a specialist of 85 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the amendment be accepted under a general number 1204 and a special 86, as amended by the Minister, which will, after the vote, be referred to as Rule 97?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1441	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1442	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1443	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1444	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1445	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1446	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1447	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1448	The amendment with a general number of 1204 and a special 86 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the amendment be accepted under the general number 1216 and a special number 97, which will, after the vote, be referred to as Rule 98?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1449	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1450	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1451	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1452	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1453	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1454	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1455	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1457	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1216 and a specialist 97 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the amendment be accepted under a general number 1218 and a special 98 in its entirety, which, after the vote, will be referred to as Rule 99?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1459	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1460	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1461	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1462	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1463	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1465	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1466	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1218 and a special 98 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the amendment be accepted under a general number 1173 and a special number 82, which will, after the vote, be referred to in Rule 100?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1467	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1468	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1470	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1471	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1472	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1473	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1474	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1475	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 1173 and a special 82 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the amendment be accepted under the general number 1205 and a special number 87, which will, after the vote, be referred to in Rule 101?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1477	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1478	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1479	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1481	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1483	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1484	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1205 and a special 87 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the amendment be accepted under a general number of 1206 and a special number of 88, which, after the vote, will be referred to in Rule 102?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1485	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1486	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1488	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1490	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1492	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1493	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1206 and a special 88 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the amendment be accepted under a general number of 1208 and a special number of 89, which, after the vote, will be referred to as Rule 103?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1495	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1497	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1499	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1501	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1502	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1208 and a special 89 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1210 and a special number 91, which, after the vote, forms part of Rule 47 of the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1503	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1504	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1507	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1508	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1511	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1210 and a special 91 was accepted as it is majority and is part of Article 47 of the draft law. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1211 and a speciality of 92, which, after the vote, will become Rule 104?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1512	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1515	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1516	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1517	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1518	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1520	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1211 and a specialist 92 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the amendment be accepted under the general number 1212 and a special number 93 as it stands, which, after the vote, will be referred to in Rule 105?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1521	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1522	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1524	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1526	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1528	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1529	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1212 and a specialist 93 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the amendment be accepted under its general number 1214 and specific 95, which will, after the vote, be referred to in Rule 106?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1532	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1533	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1535	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1538	The amendment under general number 1214 and specific 95 were therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1215 and a special number of 96, which, after the vote, will become Rule 107?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1540	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1542	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1544	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1547	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1215 and a special 96 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1219 and a special number 99, which, after the vote, forms part of Article 31 of the draft law?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1549	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1551	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1553	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1556	The amendment, by a general number 1219 and a special 99, has therefore been accepted by a majority and is part of Article 31 of the bill. Will the amendment be accepted under a general number 1220 and a special number 100, which, after the vote, will be referred to in Rule 108?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1557	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1560	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1562	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1564	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1565	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1220 and a special 100 was accepted as it stands and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1566	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1567	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1568	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1569	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1570	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1571	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1572	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1573	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1574	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Ministry of Health's draft law: ‘Reforming the Primary Health Care, urgent arrangements of responsibility of the Ministry of Health and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and under the articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1575	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1576	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1577	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1578	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1579	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1580	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1581	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1582	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1583	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Legislation of the Ministry of Health: ‘Reforming the Primary Health Care, urgent arrangements for the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all of them and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1584	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1585	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-03-S1-commons.u1586	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.40 the meeting for today, Thursday 3 August 2017 at 19.45' on the subject of Parliament's work: only debate and vote at the outset, articles and all of the draft law: "Electronic system for the disposal of television advertising time, amendment of Law 3548/2007, establishment of a register of regional and local press, special marking of a barcode on printed publications, creation of an institutional framework for strengthening the production of audiovisual works in Greece and other provisions" in accordance with the agenda distributed.
