ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Monday, 30 January 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question raised by Mr Georgios Vlachos with reference to the revision of tax provisions relating to tax treatment of immovable property within areas that have been integrated into a town plan has not been completed. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 386/24-1-2017 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Antoniou Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the abuse of the name "Macedonia" to sports organisations. 3. The Question No 389/24-1-2017 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Health on the payment of workers cleaners to the services of the General Hospital of Artas. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 380/23-1-2017 of the Greek Parliamentary Second Thessaloniki, Mr. Savvas Anastasiades, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, concerning the completion of the Greek school complex in Munich. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 387/24-1-2017, by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Finance, on the legislative arrangement for extending approved expenses beyond hospitals. 3. The question by number 356/17-1-2017 of the Second Vice President of the Parliament and MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Borough to the Minister of Research and Religion, about the rename of the Department of Environmental and Natural Resources of the University of Patras, based in Agrinio, in a Department of Environmental Engineering. 4. The question by No 321/9-1-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Konstantinos Javara, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the suspension of the professional activity of the members of the Government. 5. The Question No 347/16-1-2017 by MP Magnesia of New Democracy Mr Christos Boukorous to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the rationalisation of the railways of Volos - Larissa and Larissa - Thessaloniki. 6. The Question No 352/16-1-2017 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister of the Interior on the conduct of a thorough inquiry into the extensive fires in Chios, Evia and Thassos. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 360/17-1-2017 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the coverage of the vacancies of teachers at the Moors High School of the Municipality of Phaistos. REFERENCE - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Finance about the Special Tax on Consumption in wine. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The second question will be discussed under number 384/24-1-2017 in the first cycle of the MEP Evia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the attempt to apply Greek real estate in Himara, which is equitable with rhyme. The State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, Mr Ioannis Amanatidis, will answer. Please, Mr. Micho, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Tirana, which is clearly part of Turkey's sphere of influence, is gradually beginning to adopt Turkey's practice against our country's national sovereign rights and in particular to question the presence of the Greek national minority. On 28 October the mayor of Himaras made a practical attempt to dismantle nineteen Greek families, by letter of notice, which provided a five-day period for evacuation from their homes, on the grounds that they are to be demolished on the grounds that they are to be demolished as a result of a development plan of the Centre of Himaras. This service was done without referring to the relevant legal framework and, according to the directly involved, it is part of the overall planning of expulsion of the Greeks from their homes, serving and entrepreneurial interests. And I ask you: what has this unacceptable attempt to eradicate Greeks from the region of Himaras and what action do you intend to take in order to defend the permanent residence of Greek families at their homes and to prevent their displacement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u3	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Pappa from your party on 18 November. What I can tell you - because, as I understand it, you want the development of what exists on this issue - is that at the moment no further negative developments have been made on this subject. For us, it goes without saying that we are closely following the whole issue and through our diplomatic authorities in the neighbouring country, which always remain on the side of our fellow citizens. Here, let me tell you that the outcome of all these diplomatic efforts that have been made has resulted in the adoption by the Presidency of the European Union General Affairs Council on 13 December 2016 of a text of conclusions, in which Albania's obligation as it protects minorities and property throughout its territory is expressly and unequivocally expressed as one of the five main priorities that need to be fulfilled in order to start accession negotiations. This development, I think, has given a strong signal and has made it clear that the choice to deepen the bilateral relations of creating situations against our country and the Greek national minority will also have a significant negative impact on the European path of this country. Secondly - and this is a new fact and I would like to inform you - that, as far as we know, there is a recommendation from the Albanian Citizens' Counselor, Mr Totozan, whose operative is calling, firstly, for the Albanian authorities to respect the legal procedure, which has been violated in respect of the adoption of a plan for the renewal of Himaras, secondly, the suspension of any further action in respect of the implementation of the renewal plan and, thirdly, for public consultation with the greatest possible transparency and participation in the implementation of joint decisions acceptable to the people of Himaras. In my dentistry, I'll tell you more. These are the newer developments on the subject you are talking about. I should also like to stress that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has responded from that time to all the issues and to Members of your party, as well as to Members from New Democracy, and made the position that Greece has on this matter clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Mijo, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u6	Thank you. I also have an announcement from the independent Albanian authorities that they say about Eddie Rama, that he's illegally trying to grab the property of the Greeks of Himaras. I'll testify to it later in the Minutes. It's not from our website, it's from the proews.gr, which has nothing to do with the Golden Dawn. We know what has happened in the past with other Prime Ministers and Berisha about the Greeks of Northern Epirus. We must not forget the extreme nationalism of Albanians and how they see the Greeks of Northern Epirus, who have burned the Greek flag too many times, have hit Northcontinents. They murdered Guma because he was speaking Greek and some people were bothering them, while we are more tolerant in our country, seeing Albanians burning Greek flags and instead of catching them with their families, going to their country or wherever they want, we're fishing for them a little. Let us not forget the business interests not just of some Albanians, but of some of our so-called 'friends' Europeans. I do not remember the name of a lady - she works in Brussels - of Italian origin, who is preparing a very big business at the expense of the North-East, seeking to grab their land. Let us not forget - and we must give a lot of basis - that this move made on 28 October by the Albanian Government was not at all accidental at all, as we must not forget the ancestors of these people, the Chammads, who were with the Germans and then slaughtered the Greeks. There is a book - which you too should like to remind them, to tell them - which says "Albania: Ancient Greek Earth". These people need to know where they are going, to find out who they had lived there, who were the first people to stand there, to learn to respect Greeks, to learn to respect Greece. Because when Berisha opened the prisons and all the Albanian subjects came, all the prisoners here, we welcomed them, who didn't have one in their pocket and now they're on. They must finally understand that, if they want the Albanians to pull this off, one day it is a case. Well, we've given them a lot: Zun, they've built their state, from Greece. Learning to respect this place and not being constantly in the attack on our country. I hope one day that we will also celebrate here in the Greek Parliament and in the Pontian genocide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u7	Mr Ioannis Amanatidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u8	I'll start with the last one. As far as the genocide of the Pontius is concerned, it has been recognised by a parliament decision, and for the first time last year there has been a special meeting in the House, to which all politicians and I have spoken personally. I remember. So I think the Greek Parliament has shown the necessary sensitivity to the honour of the Pontian Memorial Day. I will insist on this issue, by Himaras, that this issue has been included in the framework of Albania's European path. Reforms in the field of justice, protection of human and minority rights, including property, are two of the five key priorities set in Tirana as preconditions for examining the opening of negotiations with the European Union. Of course, all of this is also being evaluated for us as a prerequisite for the further continuation of Albania's European accession process. All the actions that we have taken since the beginning of the matter, namely the announcements, with the initiative of the Ambassador here, with the information of our partners in the European Union, including Mr Han and Vice-President of the European Commission and of the High Representative, Mrs Mogerini, information to the Foreign Affairs Council, all of this has brought the two results that I have told you and which I believe are the achievement of Greek foreign policy. We will continue on the same line and do all we can to ensure that there are no further negative developments. You will allow me, Mr President, because today the Greek Parliament will pay tribute to the memory of the millions of Jews who have been destroyed in the Nazi camps, to say that we also attach great importance to the categorical condemnation of anti-Semitism. We are making systematic efforts, as a Greek state, to combat the cases of intolerance and racism, and we are working systematically to restore the historical injustices to the Greek Jewish community and institutionalise the memory of the Holocaust. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogerou, informs the House that 10 top-level questions will not be discussed for a number of reasons. The following questions will not be discussed as a result of a failure by the competent ministers and will be redefined for discussion: The fifth question under number 382/23-1-2017, the first question of the Greek MP, Mr Ioannis Saridis, concerning the plan to weaken Macedonia's Police and Fire Force, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr. Toska. The tenth under number 319/9-1-2017, a topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios State, to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the degradation - abolition of the Tychro Border Guard Department in Evros, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Toska. Also, the Question No 8/3-10-2016 by the Independent MEP, Mr.Estathios Panagoulis, to the Minister of the Interior, about beatings and chemicals the government teaches us what democracy means, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr. Toska. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. Likewise, the first question under number 378/23-1-2017 of the second Athens Parliamentary Committee of New Democracy, Anna Karamanlis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the Interim Management Committee in Greek Football, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Sports, Mr Vassilis. Cause: He'll be out of Athens. The ninth under number 328/10-1-2017 a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education for Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the education of refugees, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Gavroglou. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. Similarly, the sixth question under number 358/17-1-2017 of the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Emmanuel Synthraki, concerning measures to be taken on the disasters in agricultural crops in areas of Crete due to snowfall and frost, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Apostle. The seventh question by number 351/16-1-2017 of the Member of the Messinia Association - Golden Dawn Mr Dimitrios Koukoutsis, Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the abolition of the Kalamata Olive PDO, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr. Apostolos. The eighth Question No 348/16-1-2017 topical question by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the resumption of the extension of the plan for the management of the vegetarian seas that directly jeopardises the viability of the Greek seas, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr. Apostleos. Cause: workload. Also, the fourth question under number 390/24-1-2017 of the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Health, concerning the reduction of expenditure in special training for specialists - "therapy", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis. The fifth question, under number 344/16-1-2017, is the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the New Democracy, Mrs. Catherine Papakostas - Ironropoulou, to the Minister of Health, concerning the discontent of citizens with the EEAY and the Public Health Care, will not be discussed as a result of an obstruction by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paulakis. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. Also, the third question under number 388/24-1-2017 is a topical question for the second Member of the Republican Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance on the final and fair regulation of the debts incurred by the car rental companies for the period before 2007, will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The departments responsible are the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport and the Ministry of Interior. We proceed to the first with number 377/23-1-2017, a top-stage question from the New Democracy MP Georgios Kasapides to the Minister of Finance, on the exacerbation of the coastal economy in the wine market due to the imposition of a Special Consumption Tax. The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Catherine Papanatziou, will answer. Mr. Kasapidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, one year after imposing the measure of the Special Consumption Tax on wine from the result of the application of the measure, it is considered to be ineffective. It has literally failed this measure, since expectations of some revenue from the Greek State have fallen completely out. You have estimated about EUR 100 to EUR 120 million, but not even 20, the latest information says that it has not been collected until now, one year after the implementation of the measure. In fact, for more precise information, in the last answer to our question from your Ministry, you told us that in the first nine months around EUR 16 million was collected. However, the concern and inconvenience caused by the measure in the industry is literally unprecedented. It is not only by the bureaucratic process needed to implement this measure, and much more so the situation on the market has escaped all controls. It is said and captured by evidence that about 65% of the wine moved over the last two years on the market is moving on the black market. This is what you understand that is conducive to the black hole, we would say, and healthy businesses that are trying to keep themselves in difficult economic conditions, but also in this unfair competition. Minister, the question is clear: are you prepared to take this measure back? Secondly, how do you intend to monitor this huge phenomenon of the paramilitary economy, which is in the real danger of blowing up this sector, which has been well organised for several years now with considerable investment, with great businesses, with a presence abroad, with tens of thousands of jobs and all of which are at risk and because of this imposition of the measure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Mrs Papanatsiou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, Mr Kasapidis, the imposition of the Special Consumption Tax on wine has been chosen as a necessary measure under the Financial Assistance Convention of the country by the European Stability Mechanism, with the aim of suspending the application of VAT to private education services. The rate of EUR 20 per hectolitre of final product was established as part of achieving the country's budgetary objectives and strengthening public revenue due to the exceptional needs of the Greek economy. As is well known to everyone, the financial measures are always taken by weighing the relevant data and taking into account the data available at the time they are taken. I am tabling a document from the Directorate for Taxation Policy in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The measure of imposing the tax on wine during the first year of its application has paid a significant amount of revenue without, however, fully satisfying the budgetary requirement we had from it. In this context, it has already been introduced into the government agenda the processing of the feasibility of maintaining the measure as it has been either amended or abolished, if allowed by the current financial situation or if another alternative source is chosen for the revenue required. In other words, the equivalents must be found in order to promote any amendment or abolition of this measure. It is generally the government's intention and is considering the abolition of the Special Consumption Tax on wine. With regard to the second question from 4-8-2016, a relevant circular was issued - an order of the then Secretary-General of Public Revenue with which instructions were given for planning controls on the production, movement and disposal of wine and other beverages produced by fermentation other than wine and beer. From the office of the then Deputy Minister of Finance had already been sent, since August, a relevant confidential document to the General Secretariat of Public Revenues and the Special Secretariat of the House of Appeal of Economic Crime for the immediate activation of all the control mechanisms, so that the relevant legislative initiative on excise duty on wine has the desired results. Of all the services, the current Independent Public Income Authority and the Special Secretariat of the IAEA, operational plans were drawn up, including checks on the implementation of wine taxation legislation and audits were carried out at the place of production of the products, at the places of disposal of the final product, on the people's markets, at the point of consumption of alcoholic beverages, on internet sales, as well as on means of transport. I am tabling for the Verbatim Report of Proceedings four documents from the Special Tax Directorate for Consumption and VAT, the Customs Control and Infringements Strategy Directorate, the Planning and Evaluation of Controls and Research, the AACC and the Special Secretariat of the IACC. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the prosecution category of the customs authorities in 2016 about 11% of all of these were carried out in the alcohol handling category, thus underlining the high priority of combating the relevant smuggling. The result of the checks was the identification and attachment of alcoholics, such as in the confiscation category of wine litres, which amounted to about 9% compared to all imprecise litres of alcoholic products. I present the relevant document of the AIA's Strategic Planning Directorate.. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of State, Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] More specifically, nine hundred and ninety-eight checks on the production, handling and disposal of wine were carried out in 2016 by the Customs Office in which forty-four infringements were detected and twenty-one thousand four hundred litres were seized.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Kasapidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. We welcome as New Democracy, Minister, by interpreting the feelings of wine growers and winemakers in the country, at least the government's intention to review this measure. I wish you would abolish this measure because it does not leave any doubt that it is completely ineffective and creates much more problems. We urge you - and the President has shown us this - to abolish this measure. And if you're looking for some equivalents, the New Democracy has tabled a package of equivalent measures that you can choose and implement as substitutes for the Special Consumption Tax measure. However, I would like to highlight some things that had been notified since 10 June 2016 by operators of the wine - wine producers in our country, but apparently the reflexes of the Ministry and the Government were not appropriate. You told us there were some checks. And we welcome that. However, the answer to 3.11.2016, that is, two months ago, your predecessor, Mr Alexiadis, said that so far the breach of the principle of non-discrimination, which I mentioned, has already exceeded 60% on the Greek market and is about 7% to 12%. These are elements of your Ministry's Planning and Evaluation of Controls and Research. This means that the controls must also be intensified here. I will table some specific proposals to facilitate your work. Besides, you know from a rural economy, you know that the bases of the Ministry of Rural Development are not interconnected with those of your Ministry. The bases of the IACC, the bases of the ELGA, the production declarations and the harvest declarations made by winegrowers and winemakers in the country are not interconnected. They are now electronically these bases and can be cross-checked with the respective bases of your Ministry's tax returns and checks, so that this industry can be automatically cleaned up. But even more so, Minister, it is important that you look very closely at these elements, which you obviously have at your disposal because these elements have been given to us by the winegrowers' representatives. Of about sixty thousand farms in the country, they legally declare their harvest, just twenty - six thousand. If the fifty thousand do not have to declare it, the rest do not declare it. I mean, one out of five farms make a legitimate harvest declaration. Also, from the total volume of wine production in our country, as I said, about 65% is not declared. If this is valued in production volume, it is about 549 million litres of wine which is not declared, as the winemakers must declare. And this is literally done by people who are crooks, to say by their name. If you can control this trafficking with an estimate of the value of this volume of smuggling with 1 euro per litre, you understand that there are several sums coming out, which increase the turnover of the industry and on them by taxing companies with a 29%, which is currently in force and you understand what revenue you can make. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, by putting this measure into effect, the sector's development prospects are being undermined, given that the country has won, let us say, a success, every year 1% on the total number of acres to make new plantations quota from the European Union, that is every year for the next fifteen years, six thousand acres can plant Greek producers who are interested in getting into the viticulture. You can understand that if a ten-year business plan is established, it should be properly planned for sixty thousand new plantations in the country and that marks a development perspective, jobs, wealth generated, but on a well-founded basis, which should be properly monitored and planned, in cooperation with the Ministry and with the wine growers. You must do so, but after you have already abolished the excise duty and put a class in this sector which, yes, you have taken it into a situation which has had several problems, but unfortunately for two years now, these problems have deteriorated, Minister. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u16	Many of the issues are the issues of the Ministry of Rural Development, with which, of course, we are in constant cooperation and I think we can see them together. From there, of course, regarding the statements by the IACC and the Ministry of Finance, there is an interconnection at the OPECE, data coming from the OPECE to the Ministry of Finance, and cross-checks can be made. Now we have more possibilities. It is within the framework of the checks carried out by the Ministry of Finance. For the piece of control. By Article 58 of Law 4410/2016 an amendment to the National Customs Code and other provisions, the number of services responsible for checking the application of the provisions of Law 4177/2013 was extended with the inclusion in them and the Special Secretariat of the Hellenic Financial Crime Corps, which remains in the services of the Ministry of Finance. In this way, the accumulated control experience of the IAEA is exploited and the control of trade and trade in products and services is further strengthened. In the context of the above, our Office is involved in joint operations with other prosecution authorities or co-responsible bodies to deal more effectively with the illegal trade. It exchanges information and data and participates in joint enterprises with European Union institutions and international organisations - Europol and Interpol - with a common subject of action, exchanging information and information related to relevant issues. It also participates in the Coordinating Centre for Trade established by Article 40 of Law 40155/2013, under the auspices of the Ministry of Development, General Secretariat for Trade as a collegial body to deal more effectively with the blockade. Finally, the Government is setting up the coordinating operational centre to combat the smuggling of products, subject to excise duty, fuel, tobacco and alcoholic beverages, which is currently being managed by officials from all control agencies and is expected to have significant effects on the fight against smuggling.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add that two more questions will not be discussed: The third, with number 375/23-1-2017, a top-stage question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the need to protect the authority of justice against unconstitutional initiatives, will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister abroad. And the second question, number 385/24-1-2017, on the performance of the Olympic Games, will not be discussed due to the absence of the relevant Minister abroad. Mr. Kontonis and Mr. Juliarakis are absent abroad. We move on to the next, the fourth with number 383/24-1-2017, a top-level question by the Member of the Attica of the Independent Greeks Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis, concerning the amendment of the provisions of Law 2971/2001 "Agialos, Beach and other provisions". Mr. Katsiki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Law 2971/2001, as illustrated by the cavalry, beach and other provisions - became FEK on 19-12-2001 and received a number of 285-, is the law, which provides for the definition of the saint and the old hayalus. It also provides for the possibility of objecting, on the part of the managers, to the extent that they disagree with the decisions laid down in the decisions in question. That provision, in its application, did not produce the expected effects, because in cases of re-establishment of the old hagillusc, in accordance with paragraphs 9 and 10 of Article 5 of that law, the actions submitted are considered by the same persons who have adopted the original decision, who are naturally to insist on their initial judgment and are difficult to find a conflict with it. In the interests of protected justice, it should be necessary to amend the existing provision and to carry out the review by a secondary committee composed of persons who did not participate in the initial crisis, since everyone is entitled to a second opportunity, but which will guarantee a non-discriminatory crisis, guaranteed by the participation of different persons in the decision-making of a first and second grade. After that, ask Minister: What are you going to do about the need to amend this provision so that citizens feel safe from possible abusive management phenomena and protected from cases of discriminatory crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u20	So let's start on a point of order. Under the current legislation, Article 3 of Law 971/2001, the definition of the boundaries of the saint, the beach and the old hayaloo is made by a committee set up at the county level by a decision of the Minister of Finance and consists of the Head of the Land Service as President, an engineer of the Land Office with a site specialist or civil engineer, and if there is no one, a technician - topographer engineer, while if the Land Administration does not have an engineer of the above specialities, participates in the Engineering Committee of the Technical Service of Municipalities and Communities or other Office of the State, the responsible port manager, the Director of the Urban Planning Directorate of Law, the Director of Spatial Planning and Environment of the Region. In exceptional cases, after an assessment of the facts, the Minister of Finance may set up a second committee. A member of the committee shall be appointed as the official of the property office. It follows from the above that the Committee is composed of persons of unknown prestige and high technical training. Subsequently, the proposals of the land servicing services shall be submitted to the local committees, which shall decide on their acceptance. The backgrounds with the proposed limit or technical report and the reports of the committees shall be sent directly to the locally responsible Secretarys-General of the decentralised administrations for the adoption of a decision to ratify the definitive Aegialou line in their region of responsibility. At the end of the procedure, the file shall be returned to the competent property office. The decision to set the definitive hayellow line shall be published in the Official Journal of the Government and shall have the effect of translating it into the transcription books. The above decisions on technical elements and backgrounds are also permanently posted on the website of the Ministry of Finance for information to the public and a notice on the posting of walls is being posted in the communication areas of the decentralised administrations, regions and coastal municipalities. If they are excluded from the post for reasons of national security, specific backgrounds, the legitimate interests may be aware of the final limit by the competent residential service. An important role is played by the objective elements on the basis of which the final judgement of the committee is formulated, which takes into account after autopsy, the physical and other indications that affect the width of the sanctuary and the beach. Indicatively, therefore, the elements for determining the sanctuary and the beach are: the geomorphology of the soil in relation to high and low coast categories, its establishment, as well as the natural vegetation limit, the existence, boundaries and nature of coastal natural resources, the findings from the assessment of the weather elements of the area, the seabed morphology, the spatial development sector in relation to the seafront, the existence of technical works in the area, which are legally existing, any approved spatial planning and land use that affect the coastal zone, the existence of public property of each category which is in direct proximity to the coastal zone, any existing land register and the existence of vulnerable ecosystems and protected areas. I think I can tell you more. If you'd like, you'd be able to answer for a second and fill out the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Katsiki, you have the floor for a second, if you please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, forgive me, but I do not understand, at the end of the day, whether everything you have said to us, which is well known and stems from the provisions of the law you have invoked, state your decision not to accept the request, as expressed in my question, by saying that the provisions of the law, for which I have an amendment, must remain as they stand. I don't understand if that's what you mean. But if that is what you mean, I would like to tell you that the person concerned, in any case that is also opposed to, in order to correct any errors in the decision of the one and only committee, will not have the opportunity to refer to, to a second-degree committee, so that he can also have the opportunity to establish and prove his fairness, on the basis of not only new evidence, as the law says, but on the basis of possible evidence to prove the wrong decision of the single committee. I would therefore like to know whether and if you intend to set up a second committee of inquiry, giving the right to review through this secondary committee, and who objected to the opportunity to prove to other persons who would run the secondary committee, his fairness. As far as what you said at the outset is concerned, the Minister can set up a committee, is not subject to mandatory provision of the law, but to the judgement of the Minister, who assesses the data and administers a second committee on a case-by-case basis as well. We would therefore like to stress that what we are asking for is the amendment of Article 5 and, in particular, paragraph 9 of the law we are discussing - in this case, Law No 2971/2001 - in order to establish a secondary committee, which will address the issues of the redefinition of a saint or old saint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u23	Please, Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u24	By Law 4281/2014 Article 11(5) was repealed, with the exception of paragraph 4 and the last subparagraph of paragraph 9, which are added as paragraph 3 to the new Article 7A: ‘In the event of an incorrect definition of the line of hay, beach or old hay, as well as a change in the coastline due to legitimate technical works or natural causes, the redefinition by the committee, whether on its own initiative or at the request of any person concerned, may be allowed to be redefined or at the request of any person concerned and the presentation of the dossier with full evidence demonstrating the error of the first determination in the competent holding agency, which promotes the complete dossier in the committee’. The Commission’s judgement is therefore based, in particular, on new elements which may be taken into account even on its own initiative and which are not limited to its decision by the original judgment. However, for the purpose of the maximum possible protection of citizens, in relation to the public interest, your request will be made before the committee responsible to be set up, with a view to reviewing the legislative framework on the issues of the sanctuary and the beach, and there is an intention to proceed with the establishment of the second committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, you have been distributed the Minutes of Monday 28 November 2016, Tuesday 29 November 2016 and Wednesday 30 November 2016 and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u27	The minutes of Monday 28 November 2016, Tuesday 29 November 2016 and Wednesday 30 November 2016 were therefore validated. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-27-S1-commons.u28	With the agreement of the House at 10.52 p.m., the sitting on Monday, January 30, 2017, at 17.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: (a) the topical and urgent debate; and (b) the topical and urgent debate, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
