ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-02-S2-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the SPECIFIC FACILITY ORGANIZATION The subject matter of today's special agenda is the election of the Quaestors and Secretaries of the Parliament, in accordance with Rules 6 and 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, as amended by FEK 92A-26-2017. If you are kind enough to make a little quiet, because the proposed names for these positions will be read. According to the above articles, three Quaestors will be elected, two from the first to a power of Parliamentary Group and one from the second to a power of Parliamentary Group, as well as six Secretaries, four from the first to a power of Parliamentary Group, one from the second to a power of Parliamentary Group and one from the third to a power of Parliament. From the first to power Parliamentary Group of the Radical Left coalition, Mr Athanasios Athanasios and Mr George Panzas are proposed for the positions of the Quaestors, Mrs Anastasia Gara and Mr Marios Katsis, Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis and Mr Georgios Psychogios. From the second to the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Constantine Koukodimos is proposed for the position of the Quaestor and for the position of Secretary John Kefaloyannis. From the third to the power of Parliamentary Group of the PASOK Democratic Assent - DIMAR is proposed for the position of Secretary Ms Hara Kefidou. These two votes, one for the Quaestors and one for the Secretaries, are nominal. Every Member who hears his name will be raised by his/her position and will clearly indicate his/her preference, i.e. 'yes', if he or she agrees with the person proposed by the parliamentary groups, or if he/she declares'represent'. The voters will each separately list the Members' preferences expressed in the special list and against the name of the voter. In order to facilitate the procedure, a prospectus has been distributed to the Members with the names of the persons proposed by the Parliamentary Groups. It is advisable that, in order not to make mistakes, the list will be translated slowly, so that time will be given for the precise note of each colleague's preference. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we should add the two votes to one and have a list reading?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-02-S2-commons.u2	The Members of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Giolas, are therefore invited on the list for the election of the Quaestors by SYRIZA and Mr Apostolos Vesyropoulos from New Democracy. The Members of Parliament, Mr. Georgia, from SYRIZA and Mr. Vassilis Yoyakas from New Democracy, are invited on the list for the election of the Secretaries. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau, in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, in which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-02-S2-commons.u3	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-02-S2-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-02-S2-commons.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House the result of a roll-call vote on the election of the Quaestors and the Secretaries of this House. A total of 195 Members voted. Mr Athanasios Athanasios 194 votes and 1 'Paris' were taken by the Quaestors from the first to power. Mr George Panzas 192 votes and 3 "Paris". For the post of Secretaries from the first to force Parliamentary Group, they received: Mrs Anastasia Gara 194 votes and 1 'Paris'. Mr Marios Katsis 194 votes and 1 'Paris'. Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis 194 votes and 1 'Paris'. Mr Georgios Psychogios 194 votes and 1 'Paris'. For the post of Quaestor from the second to the power of Parliament, Mr Constantine Koukodemou took 195 votes. For the post of Secretary from the second to the power of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis received 195 votes. For the Secretary's post from the third to force, Ms. Hara Kefalidou received 194 votes and 1 'Paris'. Therefore, according to the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, we are all elected as candidates for the post of Quaestors and Secretaries.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-02-S2-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting with regard to the election of the Quaestors and Secretaries of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-02-S2-commons.u7	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. The Second Vice-President of Parliament, George Vartenmenos, seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad from October 2nd to October 6th 2017, due to his participation in the work of the autumn session of the OSCE held in Andorra. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-02-S2-commons.u8	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I must also inform the House that within the next hour the draft state budget for 2018 will be submitted to the Office of the President of Parliament. The draft will be posted on Parliament's website. We wish good success and good courage to those who have been elected. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-02-S2-commons.u9	(a) only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Following the Multilateral Agreement of Authorities for the Exchange of Reports by Country and Implementing Provisions" and (b) discussion and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, on requests for waiver of immunity of Members Ilias Kassidiaris and Christofordakis, in accordance with the special agenda.
