ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We begin with the first under number 1390/5-9-2017, the first question of the first cycle of the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition of the Radical Left, Elias Kamaterou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The calculation of ENVY based on the old times of a building". The Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Catherine Papanatziou, will answer. Mr. Cameroon has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u2	Madam Minister, I am sure you appreciate the value of this debate much more so that the issue of ENPI is also topical, but it has become an emblematic element of the burden on citizens, perhaps even beyond the dimensions that they had to have because they have much worse taxes. I'm sure that's why it's the ones who imposed him when they imposed him the way he was imposed. We remember how it depended on PPC's accounts and they reached the point where households were left without power when they had no money to pay for HNVIA. Unfortunately, under the circumstances we all know, we also had to accept him. We have not succeeded in abolishing or replacing him, as is our intention, with a fairer tax in favour of large immovable property. However, it is well known that we have tried to make improvements. There have been several reductions, 35% pay less, about 30% the same, we have put it as a countermeasure to the second assessment we have voted on. As will also be the case with the regulation of the objective that will approach trade where there will again be a reduction particularly in low incomes. But, to come to the subject of this question, there are still distortions, which we must follow and correct in favour of the weak. One of these is building time. While it refers to v.4223/2013, in Article 4, how the tax is levied and refers to buildings built, they have been built in different economic periods, there is column 14, in which one is forced, as one says, in cases where there are building blocks with a different old age, to indicate the building on a line and as the year of construction in the year of the newest building licence. So the injustice of a building, which may be most square, is presented - there are such cases - of much older construction being taxed as a younger one because it happened to have recently made a small addition. This is also the case of arbitrary ones. Because in arbitrary terms this is the case, that if anyone has even made a small room and goes to legalise it, then it is assumed that the whole building had a year of construction in the year of legalization - the creation of the arbitrary. This, in the bill that comes for the structured environment, which includes the case of arbitrary ones, is corrected. I would also ask you to see the question of correcting this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Foreign Minister, Mrs Papanatsiou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kamaterre, on the issue you raise in your question I will mention this. The HIS law is a special law on the taxation of ownership of property, which, like you said, was voted on with a specific budgetary objective and lays down specific terms, conditions and procedures. The point you are referring to - which is not really the only distortion of this law - that is, the old age of the properties in the above law, is that the old age of the building results from the difference between the year of taxation and the year of the issue of the newer building licence. If there is no building permit, the year of issue is taken as the year of construction, resulting from a public document, which may be an earlier acquisition title, of course the start of electricity from PPC or the legalisation of arbitrary power. If the year of construction is not derived from a public document or the declaration of property data, the year of issue of the licence shall be taken in the year in which the building was declared by the submission of the E9. Licences for changing the use of the building or non-essential renovation permits, which do not affect the bearer of the building, such as the license for oleo-chromatism, floor repair license, scalp licence, etc. are not taken into account. Now, in cases where there are parts of a building with a different old age for any reason, i.e. due to a newer building permit for extension or later settlement or legalisation of part of the property, the building is singled out on an E9 line and as a year of construction is recorded the year of the newest building licence or the year in which the arbitrary building has been settled or legalised. In particular, if the year of construction is not derived from a public document or the declaration of property details, the year of construction shall be taken in the year in which the building was declared by submitting the declaration of E9. In the arbitrary constructions the additions, which were legalised or settled as a year of construction, are taken as a construction year, as indicated in the engineer's report, in the regularisation documents. If the engineer writes a range of years in his report, for example he may report from 2008 to 2011, then as a year of construction the most recent date is taken, and if not a year of construction in the engineer’s report, as a year of construction it is taken as the year of normalisation, which may not be later than 2011, as it is not permitted to settle subsequent constructions. As far as your second question is concerned, we are aware that in the event that the relevant Rhodes, Kos and Leros offices have in their archive the relevant information, from which the evidence necessary to prove old property and the assets are confirmed, the services of the Ministry of Finance accept these attestations as they constitute public documents. I will also present you with a document from the competent independent authority. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] The rest in my dentistry, so that I do not abuse time, after I hear the colleague's dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Undersecretary. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u6	Madam Minister, what I said is unfortunately confirmed. I will expect to hear in your dentistry some intention at least to correct, because that is an injustice, a distortion. We have many examples of this, and that is why I referred to the land registers in these areas, because they are very old and we have 1930 and 1940 buildings. Let me repeat it. If there is a building that is four hundred square meters and has taken the course of a later addition of ten square blocks recently or legalised a similar arbitrary of ten square feet, you understand how unfair it is to be considered as a year of construction and not to have a reduced rate of the entire building, the four hundred square meters. You need to see it, because it's one of the serious distortions. I would also perhaps not mention it in my question - and I apologise for that - and you are not obliged to answer it, because you have also mentioned that there are many distortions, let me tell you one or two more, since the dialogue we are having is to take these matters into account in your mind in the area of correction. So since you recognize that it's a distortion, see it. Another example is the unstructured plots. There are lands within a town plan which do not have a front on the road. It provides for the decree that, when they are not faint, there is a reduced rate, but when they are not built, there is no reduced rate. We have plot plots to pay too much ISPA, and they cannot build a square one. To conclude, let me again off the agenda, since I have a little time to say that we are expecting a move for HNVIA on the smaller islands under three hundred inhabitants. I'm saying this because we have a recent experience. We were a few days ago on tour with the Ministers, Mr Papapas and Mr Santorinios, the Deputy Minister of Island Policy, on the small islands. It is tragic for the Arkians of twenty-five people to put us in trouble and to say 'ENPHIA', which, as I said before, has become an emblematic element, the burden of the citizens and that is what they call it. They told us on an island of twenty-five inhabitants and take care, without having titles of property, because they are claimed by the public property. I mean, we have problems like that. I think the time has come to see such a relief, which does not cost too much. It's a minimum burden. I conclude with a request that has reached you for a discount in the areas affected by an earthquake like Kos. I do not know to what extent we can satisfy it. Let it be even a small percentage of HISPIA discounts. Because in addition to compensation in red or yellow buildings which are damaged and can claim compensation, there are damages in too many buildings, which have not been classified as red or yellow. It's green, but it's damaged. It is, of course, the damage which cannot be done uninhabited or directly, but I think they are entitled to even a small discount rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u7	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u8	I will stress once again that the law of the ENPI was passed in 2013 and our country, in the context of budgetary policy, has committed itself to a specific amount of receipts per year from this tax. This defines the framework within which we can move towards economic and social policy. Nevertheless, we have made efforts to reduce tax burdens. For example, we have solved the problems that had arisen since the entry into force of the ENPI and concerned the bankruptcy lawyer, who has ceased to be a taxable person, but who is liable only to submit the claim in the name of the poor. One second is that we extended for two years, in 2017 and 2018, the suspension of the imposition of an additional tax on the parcels of natural persons. Thirdly, we have allowed, in the event of a transfer of the total real estate of a natural or legal person, if the total amount due to the principal and additional taxes and increases is attributed by the notary within the three working days, to a single ENPI certificate, without having to have been prior to the settlement of dues by HICPI or large real estate tax. Fourthly, we have resolved a very serious issue which has been afflicted by a large number of citizens, as we have anticipated the possibility of a criminal lawsuit on property, without requiring the payment of the HPAI or the PPA of that property, nor has the other debts of HPAI or PPA to be regulated. As you mentioned, due to the earthquakes of June 12, 2017 in Lesvos and of July 21, 2017 in Kos, we have institutionalised the exemption from HNVY for the years 2017 and 2018 for buildings with the relevant land that proved to have been damaged. This question you have raised may be a new request. We'll consider it. We will see whether it can stand legally and what we can do for a percentage in some other property. We have not reached our ministry yet. In 2016, we reduced the objective values in the regions with average prices, thus favouring small assets, shifting to the greater weight. As you said before, in your dilemma, the tax became more progressive but also more proportionate. In any case, however, the way in which the buildings are used will be reviewed, as we are in a process of balancing the objective and commercial values, with the aim of establishing a new property tax law, more lawful, more representative, by correcting distortions that exist and problems that have arisen in the implementation of the ENPI and by restoring social justice and equality. The problems we have raised we believe that, once we have completed the part of the equation of trade and objective values, it will be one of the issues that we will see. I also produce a document from the relevant Directorate of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Minister. New Democracy MP Christos Bukoros seeks permission from a short-day absence from 21 September to 25 September 2017 in order to go abroad and in particular to Italy for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u10	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Here is the first question under number 7403/19-7-2017 question of the circle of petitions by the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, about the strictness of sentences imposed on destructive cultural monuments, public and private property. Mr. Kaklamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, today we are discussing the issue of dealing with the continuing people - the truth is for many years now, I have been dealing with it for the first time when I was the mayor of Athens, namely, since 2006 - disasters and vandalism of public and private property and monuments of cultural heritage, in historic buildings or works of art, which are not only in Athens, but also in large cities of Greece. The truth is, Minister, that I had made efforts as mayor in the then government. Nothing happened. This is the third time that I have been discussing it in your own government. The first time was in March 2015, when your colleague then replied that he was basically in agreement with my comments and with my proposal, but he referred to me that the committee was then set up for the drafting of the new Criminal Code and that within the framework of its drafting would take care of the matter, which we are discussing. Today, we're twenty-seven months later. I do not know if the committee has finished its work. You'll let us know. I think the deadline or something was over in July. I think we should now make decisions, Minister. It's unacceptable. I've got the pictures here. In the statue of Palama, we almost don't know him. Because the maggot experts rub it after the constant vandalism, we've reached the point that it doesn't seem like Palamas. He was decapitated by the statue of Cybeli. The statue was destroyed for the Northern Continent. The statue of Lela Karayannis was decapitated. I do not want to say the catastrophes in private buildings, neoclassical and non-professional, but also in public buildings. I therefore think it will be in favour of the government and you will also have the support of the overwhelming majority of this House if you take action on this matter. I would like to ask you, then, if you are concerned. I would like you to tell me where this committee is going to draw up the new Criminal Code, and if there is anything in there, it is more than what is already provided for in Article 382(4) of the Criminal Code. I would also like you to tell me if you have done a check, because it was part of the question. On the basis of this - supposedly - an article in force, paragraph 382(4), how many people have been sentenced and how many criminal prosecutions have been committed to the specific offences I mentioned?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u12	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, the question raised by the honourable Member, Mr Kaklamanis, is a particularly sensitive issue. I would say that if we look back on Greek history, since ancient times, there has been a strong reproach and indulgence in the actions of those who destroyed the monuments. I do not need to remind the National Representation of the decisions made by the Municipality of Athens in ancient times against Alkiviadis and his friends when they accused him of destroying the Hermes capitals. I would therefore like to say that these issues have a timelessness in Greek history and have a strict response. The first thing I want to say to you, Mr President, is that Article 382(4) provides for a strict sentence, which reaches one year of imprisonment for those who practice such illegal acts. I don't know if I need to read the article.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u14	I know. I've seen it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u15	You know that. Mr Paradoxopoulos was right to answer a question you submitted a year ago, if I remember correctly, he replied that the matter would be dealt with by the Legislative Committee of the New Criminal Code. As you know, Mr President, I have announced to the Greek Parliament that the nomadic committee, set up to deliver the new Criminal Code and the new Code of Criminal Procedure, has completed its work and the new codes for study and further processing have been delivered. The final legislative committee has already been set up by my decision, which will check that there are conflicting provisions and I hope that by the end of October they will have delivered their plans. The logical consequence of this sequence of events is that I think that by the end of the year the Greek Parliament will have these two basic instruments. What you are asking me, and because I have the task of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I would like to tell you that Article 378, which replaces Article 382, provides in paragraph 2, provides that the person concerned shall be punished by imprisonment of at least two years and financial penalties if the subject of the act is referred to in paragraph 1 of the preceding paragraph. It is a disaster that serves for common benefit, an artistic or historical monument, an object placed in a public space, if damage has been caused by fire or explosives. Therefore, by comparing the existing article dealing with these illegal acts and the paragraph that will now punish the acts that you described and mentioned, you see stricterisation by doubling the penalty provided for. I've spent time, Mr. President. I shall return to Mr Kaklamani's second question in my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u16	Mr. Kaklamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, first of all I have no problem telling you that I am pleased with the one part of the answer you have given me. Firstly, I think it is sufficient and, secondly, I think it is in the right direction. The fact that one year is two years old seems to me to be extremely important. But what remains, Minister, is that they be tried and not tightened up the Criminal Code, I rightly repeat, and I congratulate you, but remain in the drawer. Because now there's a year. If one of them was in jail for one year, the message would be spread across Greece. The information I have is that nobody's been in. I don't know how many people have been misled and how many have been tried. That information you will tell me. They may have been misunderstood and I don't know about it. And do you know anything else, Minister, that's not your ministerial responsibility? The first part is the arrest of these. The trilogy was vandalized at the University, the Academy, the University and the Library. Do you know the height of vandalism? To the feces! To get someone to vandalize the eagles, it means she set a ladder, because it's six meters high. Did anyone see him? No one went to say to him, "What are you doing with paint up there?" All this is a function, I repeat that it is not your responsibility, after the dissolution of the "DELTA" Group. As long as there was the DELTA Group, these incidents had not disappeared, but had been significantly reduced. So first is the arrest, then the petition and the trial. I accept what you told me. I told you, I'm glad. This has always been the proposal I made since I was the mayor and no one listened to me and no one took me into consideration. But the second part should also be made. Of course, it's not the Minister's job to take him to the courtroom. For God's sake, that's not what I mean. But one of them has to go to jail sometime. If he doesn't go to jail to leave the message for anyone who vandals our cultural heritage, public and private property, nothing else happens. The photos I have here, Minister, are terrible. I mean, it's where the statue with Palama is, look at this picture. See here and the statue of the Northern Epirus. See here the Kyveli's beheading. That's not happening from one moment to the next and it's all in the center of Athens. It's not at a remote point someone's not taking it. People go through the front. It's supposed to be the police at the front. As far as you are concerned, first of all I am pleased with the answer you have given me. I'll wait for this to come to the House. I want to believe that all wings or at least most will support this change in the Criminal Code you say. The second part, of course, remains, which is to be caught and sent to court, because if we vote for strictness without anyone going to court, it is a gift of free will. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u18	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Mr Kaklamani's information on prosecutions and convictions is incorrect.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u20	I wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u21	The 'black' does not exist, Mr Kaklamani - you understand - because the official figures of the country's prosecutors say that in 2015 there were sixteen criminal prosecutions and we had three convictions - does not mean that the others were acquitted, they may have taken a trial, which is in due course - and in 2016 we had seventeen convictions and four convictions. So criminal prosecutions are being persecuted...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u22	Have they been punished?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u23	They were punished for sentence...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u24	How much? Because if two months were punished...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u25	First of all, you don't ask me or it's not possible... Listen, Mr. Kaklamani. You had a misinformation. I'm telling you, you have the wrong information. I'm reporting to you the evidence that our country's prosecutors have given us to inform you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u26	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u27	You don't ask this thing and, secondly, it's not an object of the question...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u28	I'm going to ask you another question, and I'm going to ask you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u29	If you want, of course, to do and get the prosecutors to look for the exact sentences. But I am telling you, in order to come to your original question, that criminal prosecutions have also been persecuted - several of what you see - but also convictions have been. I stress that it does not mean from the prosecutors' documents, which I have taken into consideration to answer, that the other cases have been brought into an acquittal crisis, because they may have been given an explicit trialable one in the future, for which the courts will, of course, be dealt with on the basis of the law in force at the time of the crime and not the stricter law, which we shall bring to the vote on the Criminal Code. Secondly, I would like to say this: there are vandalism of city monuments, which are sad and I would like to emphasise. The statue of Kostis Palama I remember from my students' years of Cybeli, which you said...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u30	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u31	...of the Holocaust or of the Northern Epirus - I will speak of these - which without any logic - even heroes of the revolution - some people vandalize them, destroy them, write. Let me remind you that the statue of Kolokotronis at its base in Stadium has suffered severe damage over all these years. I would also like to mention that there are also thefts of busts, which are made of copper, because copper is expensive metal. That is where we have arrived with regard to the monuments of the country. But what I would like, Mr Kaklamani, to point out, because it is addressed in your question, is an ideological one as far as the disasterrs are concerned. You refer to anti-powermen, solidaritys, hoodmen. The statue of Lela Karayannis or Holocaust, for example, is certain to have been vandalized by fascists and neonazis. Let us also mention these, precisely because these actions are in the minds of some and ideological attributes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u32	There are also known strangers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u33	Yeah. Known strangers, you know, have an ideological charge and the mind goes to specific spaces. I would therefore like to say that these actions are unacceptable and because they are unacceptable, so I would like to say to you now that the Government is in agreement with the proposal of the Legislative Committee on increasing the penalty in the new article, as it stands, in 378 of the new Criminal Code, as it will be voted on by Parliament, I hope it will be adopted by the end of the year. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Minister. Subsequent to the fifth under number 1444/5-9-2017, a top-level question for the first cycle of the Athens MP Mr. Georgios Amyras, on the case of the "SIEMENS". Mr. Euclidis Tsakalotos will answer. Mr. Amyras, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Tsakalotos, I will be all ears tonight to hear your answers to the issue of "SIEMENS", because the truth is that I have been chasing you since February 20, 2017 to come here to answer the current question. I've reinstated her nine times, ten times, in fact, because the tenth was the lucky one. Anyway, it seems easier to make an appointment with Scarlett Johanson for a drink than with Eukleidis Tsakalots parliamentary appointment for "SIEMENS". We now come to the substance of the case: On 11 April 2012, Mr. 4072 was voted here in Parliament and Article 324 defined the content of the extrajudicial compromise between the Greek State and SIEMENS. What were the obligations of ‘SIEMENS’ with a five-year period of implementation? It was to pay 80m euros for receivable claims of the Greek State. I would also like to ask you whether these 80 million euros have been paid for by Siemens. It is also obliged to pay EUR 90 million over five years for research programmes and medical equipment in hospitals. Have these amounts been allocated to equipment and what research programmes were carried out? It also had to invest in our country EUR 100 million to ensure its presence in Greece, maintaining at least six hundred jobs. I ask you how many workers SIEMENS has today and whether it has actually invested EUR 100 million. Finally, the SIEMENS obligations were to examine the prospects for the construction of a new plant here in Greece, investing EUR 60 million and employing seven hundred people. First of all, please tell me if everything I say is correct, as far as Siemens' obligations are concerned. I would also like to ask: has the five-year deadline expired in August that we have received or not? Were these timetables binding? Which of the things I have mentioned and of the scope of SIEMENS' obligations has been fulfilled and what is not and what is the future? Will you again ratify this agreement if it has not been completed, i.e. the extrajudicial compromise between ‘SIEMENS’ and the Greek State? Mr President, I shall return to my dentistry for the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u36	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you, Mr President, for the question. I will answer one of the questions, as I understand them: The provision of EUR 80 million by SIEMENS by deleting its recoverable claims against Greek public bodies has been completely completed. So this is over. The second question is about the provision of EUR 90 million by SIEMENS for a total of five years in support of Greek institutions and activities. It concerns the implementation and allocation of funds for the period of five years up to August 2017, and until the last meeting of the Supervisory Committee, all of EUR 90 million has been allocated to 100% of actions and beneficiaries. I've got a lot of details. I will tell you the main points and if you want the individual activities I can give them to you to see them. It is support for bodies, as well as projects and programmes aimed at combating corruption, fraud and money laundering, supporting university and other scientific research programmes in the Hellenic Republic in the fields of energy, health, industry, infrastructure and urban development. Also, the provision to other smaller actions, the provision of 100 each year grants for university studies in the fields of energy, health, industry, infrastructure and urban development. I think I've given you the junk. SIEMENS has committed itself to staying in Greece and making the same investments as the jobs. I don't have the details on the jobs, because you didn't ask. But I can get them to another conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u38	Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u39	There was the question, but that's all right, I'll wait a second time for the answer on the question of ensuring the presence of SIEMENS with an investment of 100 million at its existing plant, plus the prospect of a new EUR 60 million investment plant with a job guarantee of at least seven hundred jobs in the number. These are important too, Minister. I would like you to come back sometime and tell me. However, dear Mr Tsakalotos, do you worry that you are being accused of infidelity and a breach of duty by ratifying and implementing this convention, this extrajudicial compromise between the Greek State and SIEMENS? Why am I telling you this? I'm going to table a timely question from Mr. Tsipras on 20-7-2012, who said what? And I tell you to keep this in mind, do not find yourself indicted by your own Chief, if, of course, he observes what he said as Opposition. For he said: "Any signature of the plan" - the compromise - that is - "by the Minister of Finance will be an act in all unlawful and disgustingly detrimental to the interests of the Greek State, a component, other than infidelity and breach of duty". I put it in the Minutes that the Minister will see it. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Also, in this very timely question, Mr Tsipras then asked the then Minister of Finance - I would ask you to know - what price, if you have examined it, the public debt arose from the illegal contracts with SIEMENS and whether your Government would seek to delete it, as the public interest requires. This was said by Mr. Tsipras in 2012 in relation to ‘SIEMENS’ and the form of the agreement with the Greek State. I would also like to see an answer from the Minister of Finance - and not Euclid of the fifty-three - on the question of investment. "SIEMENS" made a carabinato, huge, global scandal in Niger, in many European countries, African countries, in Asia. Everywhere she paid or in any case is in the process, to pay the price of her corruption. Do you think that, after these interventions, SIEMENS and every SIEMENS have any more tools to brib public officials and influence contracts? And I would also like you to tell me, dear Minister - and not Euclid of the fifty three - will you go out on the streets to celebrate the closure of HRRYSOS SA in Halkidiki, as Prime Minister Karanikas urged the world through facebook? Will you go out and celebrate? Do you think it's about thousands of Halkidiki workers? Do you also think it is about what Mr. Tsipras said two days ago at the IGC, talking about investments and about the need to create a reasonable and favourable investment climate in the country, with rules and transparency? Within one day, the prime minister sends everything Mr. Tsipras said to the IGC. So I would like your position too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u41	Before answering these questions, I should like to reply very briefly to two questions in the question, and you did not mention them, or if you mentioned them, they have escaped me. The one person we changed - for letting him understand that he was ours - we changed it because of the pension. And on the second point, the company hasn't changed. The contract is as it was with the ‘SIEMENS’. What you're talking about about Italy...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u42	All right, well, it's still there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u43	As regards the question of whether I am afraid - now I do not know these, whether it is a lawsuit or a lawsuit or a lawsuit - I have Mr. Kontonis, who is an excellent legal person, and I am sure he will commit to supporting me in any lawsuit or complaint from wherever it comes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u44	What about Tsipra yet?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u45	From wherever it comes, I'm sure Mr. Condonis will be my worthy lawyer on these matters. Look, on the question of whether the 'SIEMENS' has given a price comparable to what it had done, I am not in a position to place myself. However, I can say what companies have done in the time of neoliberalism, which have precisely limited these social and political profit-restricting structures, without any reason: they have brought such phenomena. The difference we see in the case of 'SIEMENS' but also in many other cases, some of which are in the EU Competition Commission, shows that capitalism, which has no restrictions, which considers that profit is the only value and that you must not look either at the environment or at the workers or the public sector, is very dangerous. This conclusion is that, before the 2009 crisis, it was a capitalism, without these restrictions that create a certain precaution. If colleagues from the JRC were here, they would tell me that in capitalism these are meant that there can be no capitalism without it. But I say that in the 1950s and 60s we did not have these phenomena, which we had in neoliberalism. There were some restrictions on the autonomy of businesses. Now, as far as the investment policy of Greece and the "EL DORADO" of me is concerned, I am covered by the announcement made by the Minister of Energy. I think he's putting things very well. I think that the New Democracy has tried, in cooperation with the company, to create a problem just after the IGC, where the Prime Minister has not announced any investments, but how we organise investments, on what terms, in which context, with which strategy. That's what's important. The important thing for investment is not only that a large investor should come and see a minister and say "that's what I want to do". It's about having rules, having tools and having a targeting, what investments you want, what filters you want to have, so that the country can get out of the crisis, without going back to the period before 2009.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Minister. Next, the third, with number 1389/4-9-2017, a topical question by the MP for the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The commitments to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the prerequisites for the evaluation without informing Parliament." Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Today, Mr President, we have the excellent pleasure and honour of Mr Tsakalotos being in the cabinet and answering topical questions. The starting point of my topical question is February 23, when Mr. Tsakalotos agreed to Eurogroup and then "leaved the island" around the deal and asked him to tell us what he agreed. I returned, together with my colleague Mr Kegeroglu, with a written question on 2 May, asking us to submit the technical and supplementary memorandum. In fact, if he was kind enough to testify to us in Greek, otherwise he would give us the trouble of translating them and paying them. He did not even respond to the written question. We realise that the Minister for Finance may have a workload, especially when he is not abroad, but that it underestimates the House by not answering the questions, we do not understand that. Mr President, you must do something about this too. I don't know if you should put Mr. Tsakalotus in a special treatment fund. Anyway, I'm back. Two pages is the story of this question, enriched every time with developments. The latest development, to which I refer, Minister, in my question, is the document you sent to the IMF by signing your own, Mr Stournara and Mr Tsipras, according to the press information. So we're glad you're here today and we're waiting for you to enlighten us. You have just confirmed yesterday that the prerequisites, as they leaked from the evaluation of the European Commission, are a hundred thirteenth and ninety-five need to be implemented by Christmas. There are the balances from the second assessment, there are issues that are raised again. I don't know if you've brought the documents I asked you to. It'll be especially useful to see what's waiting for us. Please be substantial in your answers, so that we and the Greek people can be informed, but also the Members of the Co-Population, who will be invited in the next period to vote, on the basis of what you have agreed or negotiated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuko. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, I am pleased to say that I have good news for Mr Koutsouko. Before I tell him the good words, I'll start with a personal experience. When I started my university career, after the doctorate at the University of Kent, my first investigation was to escape capital and what explains currency crises, exchange rate crises. I had to go to the library for one month from 7.00 to 11.00 to find, for every country for thirty years, what the exchange rate was over time and what the markets intended for the future. In other words, I went to the microfilm newspapers and saw what it was for England, the exchange rate with the French franc, etc. Now, young and young students - I'm in good mood to tell you - can do this with pressing a button. All that evidence that took me a month to find them, they can find them by pressing a button. The good news is that the Internet provides us with these. So Mr. Koutsoukos can do exactly the same. If he took the trouble of going to the IMF and the Commission's site, he would find the hundreds of thirteen prerequisites and ninety-five, to be implemented by Christmas. Mr. Koutsoukos could also enter the IMF site and see what is his prerequisites, which are less. If you want, I can explain why they're less. It could compare what is the same and what is different between the European institutions, which are in the Commission and the IMF. He could see further, if he's new in relation to what was happening before. So they're all in public space. You did not have to write letters or ask questions. I have them here to give you, but I don't think they're useful. You know, Mr. Kutsuko, what was Kofukius saying? "If you give a fish to a man, you keep him alive for one day. But if you teach him to fish, you keep him alive for life." So I'm tabling them in the Minutes to see them. [[At this point, the Minister, Euklidis Tsakalotos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But please bring some of your partners to explain to them how to download them online. You don't have to see the posts. You don't have to look for newspaper articles. They will explain to you how they go on the website, which has the IMF all the texts you need, and I think that is how you will be much more happy, much more effective and you will tire Parliament much less.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u50	Mr. Kutsuko, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u51	I am really sorry about the disgrace of the Minister, who says this, rather than asking for an apology that his services do not respond to memorials. I heard Mr. Mavrota the other day saying he has ten unanswered questions. I have heard the colleague say that his question has been postponed ten times earlier. Instead of asking for an apology, we're told that we don't know how to use the internet. Maybe, Minister, I didn't study in England, not to be English...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u52	Don't iron me for England.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u53	You will learn not to offend the House and colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u54	Minister, don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u55	I may come from, Minister, from an Amalada rural family, but to do my job, I can go online and learn and I am informed...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u56	Where are you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u57	So instead of abdicating us that we don't use the Internet and we're tired of you coming to the House to ask for an apology you didn't do well with your work. And stop responding with such intelligence, degrading the debate every time and on the substance, evading. Because, all right, Minister, in English we can find on the IMF and the Commission's website what you have told us. The letter you sent, Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Stournaras to the IMF, with the twenty-one commitments we cannot find. I also do not know whether we have the technical memorandum or the supplementary memorandum in formal form and I also want your signature. I mean, at last! You went to May 1st on the day we honor workers' struggles and you signed up, you and Mrs Ahtsoglou! Are you ashamed? If you're embarrassed, you can tell us, not put us on the Internet! In any case, in order to come to this end, we are at the end of the second evaluation. Some say there's more. You guys here say it's all right. The day before yesterday, you were telling us, when we told you that you were piling up the memos with some bills, such as this work, that you weren't taken off your ears and that we wouldn't have the digging process. And the next day, you took the device back. So what else do we have from the second evaluation? And tell us now in the light of the third assessment that starts - because I have read that the technical benches are coming, you will confirm that - which of the ninety-five prerequisites must be implemented by the end of December and what the problems are. Will there be further requests for additional measures? We hear the IMF is going to raise a question of bank recapitalisation. Are there going to be questions of forward exercise of the measures we have taken with the fourth Memorandum, after the defeated negotiation, in particular, to come forward with the tax-free? And finally, Minister, this success story, which you have the ability each time to shape from the squares of "shape the memorials" in the fact that "I'm better implementing the memoranda" - this is your policy now -, this account can be implemented, when we know very well that huge problems are ahead of us, that there is a lack of tax fatigue in the incomplete return of income tax, that there is a lack of privatisation - that privatizations have taken place this year, and this year you are going relatively better, but the two billion I do not know if you will approach them - that they are devastateding properties of the Greek public, such as Greek and Cassiope? Mr Tsipras also appeared pro-invested yesterday and now Eldorado Gold is leaving. And you told us, in reply to my fellow Member, that you agree with the Minister for Energy's statement, but you do not tell us what you will do about this investment. Do you want it or do you want it as a government? You've taken over the change of working law, the right to strike. You have the help of the New Democracy. Are you negotiating this? What are you gonna do? You have committed yourself to cutting allowances, family, disabled and so on. So there are issues that they cannot answer the Internet. He can't answer the internet because he's in a live negotiation process. Mr. McCron came up the other day and leaked that he raised the issue of the waters, of the EMCDDA. Did you make a commitment to Mr. McCrone to privatise the waters? Because you guys go one end to the other. Here they waste the properties of the Greek state and go sell the most valuable good. So that, Minister, is what you have to answer them to us, without any evasion or ingenuity. And since you like intelligence, I'll finish with one of my own. Mr. Tsipras said the day before yesterday that if he finds an English translation that knows better Greek, he can make him a Minister. Keep an eye on it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u58	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, I raise my hands. Mr. Koutsoukos was like a student who hadn't been ready and then he yelled to find his point. Everything he asks is in the public sphere. That's the truth, Mr. Kutsuko. Even Stournara's letter, mine and Tsipras is a page before what I told you on page 69. So you ask a question you say: 'Publications say that', 'It sounds that'. You don't have to do this. You could put two partners - I do not accept your irony that you did not study in England and that's why I was upset about it. It is a shame to come here and not know what it is that you have asked, not to know that it's on the internet, not to know that it's in the public space. So don't get upset when you come unprepared when for you politicians it's just to make an announcement to make it hard for the Minister or the Prime Minister. Sit down, read the memorandum. All the questions you've raised are inside. I hate to answer when it's in public space. If you had read and wanted a clarification and said to me: "Euclidis, what exactly does it mean? This is harder, I do not understand, to have a debate. But you come here, which is something in public space and you tell me: 'What is this, what commitments'? There are dates, because you told me which of the ninety-five must be and said that, until June, they were seen until August, until October. It's all black and white. Everything you can read. When you're up-to-date and you have questions, I'm here glad to explain them to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u61	Change the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, to resolve what Mr Tsakalotos says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u62	There's a matter of parliamentary control, but I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u63	Change the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Koutsoukos prepared to ask questions about which he has done a little bit of work. The question is a serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u64	Minister, my role is not to interfere, but to manage the debate. However, I would like to tell you that the Member is asking questions in parliamentary scrutiny and the Minister is answering them. There's no need to overturn elsewhere to find the answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u65	Not the answers to questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u66	I have listened with great interest to what you have said, but also to the lively debate and dialogue within Parliament has the honourable Member and the Minister in question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, you are absolutely right to clarify what I am saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u68	Good. Thank you, Minister. Next, the fifth under number 1385/1-9-2017, a topical question by the Independent MEP, Messinia Mr. Dimitrios Koukoutsis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: ‘The perspective and needs of the international airport of Kalamata’. Mr. Koukoutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. In recent years, Minister, the development of the Kalamata airport has indeed made huge leaps. It is estimated that arrivals from abroad and internal have from 2009 to 2016 make a jump of about 300%. So we are going on with geometric progress, with the result that tourism for this year is talking about over two hundred thousand arrivals at Kalamata airport. It's something unprecedented about us. Furthermore, of course, from this positive event, there is also the dark side of whether we will finally know whether Kalamata Airport is staying in the public interest, if sold, because since the time when I have asked this particular question, a communication has already come out. Already Mayor Kalamatas met with Mr Pichiorla and had a conversation. I'm talking about the fifty acres, which are expropriated. In fact, we do not know whether the Greek State is going to sell the airport, i.e. if it is given to individuals, if it is to remain state-owned. The Institute of the Association of Greek Tourism Enterprises proceeded to an account - to listen to them as well - for the air arrivals of 2015-2016. In 2015, about eighty-six thousand passengers were recorded, while in 2016 a hundred five thousand. In other words, we are talking about an increase of 22.63%. It is said that by the end of 2017 this increase will reach 20% compared to 2016. There's an investment interest. Unfortunately, many technical projects are needed for Kalamata airport. The question is this: Since the airport of Kalamata does not guarantee its necessary upgrading, even the continuation of its operation, we would like, as citizens of Kalamata and the law and in general the wider area of the South Peloponnese, to ensure that. After privatisation, if it is done, it is certain that a tax will be imposed per passenger, analogous to the ‘Spattom’. This means that for tourist agents, but also tourists, the choice of Kalamata airport will be inconsistent. What do you intend to do, so that this fact does not affect the tourism of the wider region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u70	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Koukoutsis, I want to clarify a few things. First of all, Kalamata airport, to which you refer, is not in TIED. He was in the HIDED and with some law he went from the HIDED to the S.H.E.L.D. Actually, it was never the whole Kalamata airport. It was some rights coming out of property. He's right now in S.H.I.E.L.E.L.D. So, as I have explained many times, the difference of HSY with HSY is: While what was inside the HSY was for sale, in order to reduce the debt, the same does not apply to HSY. We negotiated in the supermarket - as we call it more popular - that the work of the "fund" is to increase the assets of the Greek State whether it is in real estate or in public enterprises such as Kavala airport, by privatisation or other means. So the first thing that the EDPS should look at as soon as the new administrative board comes out in two or three weeks - at the moment we only have the Overseas Board and not the four sub-funds that are under the excess - will be to consider a strategy for all airports, as it will for all ports, if they go there. How it will do this depends on the government's general strategic plan, but also on the individual strategic plans that will be at a lower level. Our view, the government's view, is that, in any case, we want to privatise them either, they must first be restructured so that they are more attractive to stay in the public interest or to be sold. Secondly, we believe that these should not be seen separately, i.e. Kalamata airport or the other airport in another region. We need to have a strategy for all airports together. So we think we are increasing the value and usefulness of these airports for the Greek state. So we are far away from discussing what will happen if the airport of Kalamata is privatised and if we have bad consequences, because right now the first step is to make a restructuring, to see this airport, to increase attractiveness not only for foreign investors, but also for the Greek state and then we see it. That's it. So this is not the case, not in the bad sense, but the pressing, that is, if the privatisation takes place tomorrow. What's in the EDPS is not necessary for privatization. Also, how the assets will be increased, will depend both on the EDPS' policy and on the government's general policy, but also more specifically on sectoral or regional level.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr. Koukoutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u73	I understand the tactics of the Ministry of Finance - and that makes sense - but, be careful, we need to see everything together, as you said. This airport has some peculiarities. First of all, you should know that it is a naval airport, as far as the route is concerned. That is, there is the “120 Air Training Wing” School of the Icaron School, in which our pilots are trained. At the same time, the airport is operated by the Civil Aviation Department. Since we are talking about a state, public authority, in any case, in times of crisis, I understand that there are financing problems for the operation of the airport and development projects. There are in public - we all know it, it is not secret - time-consuming procedures in terms of appropriations, recruitment, there are problems in the services of financial control. I understand all that. In addition, the Commission considers that the financing of the airport services agreement to be compatible with the internal market does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. In other words, it may have a lower ticket cost for both tourists and major agents. Why? Because it has many services from the 120 wing of aviation training, namely air traffic control, fire safety, safety, waste collection, etc. This airport is also international. In other words, it has passports, exchange and customs controls. The problem is that there are some things that need to be done. His working hours are on two shifts. This has to be done in three. There are very few people working at this airport. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] According to well-known objects, direct staff support is needed. This airport operates intensively from 15 April to 15 October and some gaps need to be covered, usually between 18.00 and 24.00 ́. It's special stuff, but we have to talk about it. In addition to the services of PSC, civil aviation, there is also a need to strengthen the co-operating services involved in the operation of the airport, such as the police. He needs backup there, too. You are not responsible for this, but we have a lot of problems lately. It is necessary to increase air traffic capacity, at least by one of the three moves that we have today. What does that mean? It means we're given three lines from Tripoli to land in Kalamata. He needs another one. Also important are the additions of a check in, weighing, tapestries, air conditioning bands and more generally maintenance of the facilities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I just want a minute. The first indoor layout took place in 2002. It's good to finish. The expropriations must be completed. In fact, since 2015, they have been blocking. Today, the expropriation of fifty acres - I think you are aware of this - has gone ahead with the construction of at least two major aircraft seats and five, six small jet jets. Due to the closeness of the outdoors, a large oil company's request for the disposal of underground tanks has not been met. Unfortunately, the building facilities have been built since 1988. You understand the problem of space there is. I asked a question on 22-7-2016. I had pointed out another problem at the airport, which has not been solved, and it is the lack of networking by public transport. Know that this airport can serve all southern Greece. I told you about the meeting that Mayor Kalamatas has been holding lately with Mr. Pittsorla. By the way, I'll say one last thing. The extent that has been expropriated has been estimated at around 400,000 euros. I don't think it's a huge sum for expropriation. Unfortunately, they have been blocking since 2015. Finally, Minister, believe me, we Messinians - and I will also speak about the wider region - are concerned with having a viable airport, an airport serving the southern Peloponnese. Whether it's private or public, we don't care. We are interested in this airport to function well, develop and serve the area. We are just very afraid that if it is given to a private person, it will be a great deal of expense. Private logic is to invest and want to earn money. So you understand that there will be too much change, we will not have the growth we have at the moment. Thank you and apologies, Mr President, for the misuse of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr. Koukoutsi. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Koukoutsi, in the agreement with the creditors it was that any increase in the value of the surplus portfolio, half would go to the creditors and half would go for investments. Now we are in the phase that we are discussing with the institutions to complete until the end of the year this piece of investment and see what will generally be for investments outside the fund, for the Greek economy, for the region, for some sectoral policy, and how much they will reinvest in the fund so that companies can be restructured, that property can be made more attractive. So I'm making this little introduction to tell you that there will be investment funds just to upgrade, whether we're talking about port, whether we're talking about a public business or an airport. So the first stage for me - which is why I told you that we are far from discussing whether it will be private or public - is that there should be these resources so that the fund can restructure these businesses, in this case the airport. Therefore, the first good news for the inhabitants of Messinia - which is reasonable what you said they wanted a functional, good airport for the south - is to start investing. That's what I think should be done anyway. I'm sure the EDPS will consider your airport to be a valuable asset. So I think that after two years you should ask me this question again - if I am you and you - and tell me: 'Good, and now that we've restructured it and it's more functional, it's more attractive, what do we do? Do we keep it in public or do we do it private?" But I think we are too far behind this question. And that's why it's important for you and the agony behind your questions - some of them are more detailed than I can understand - to see how this business is being restructured. You will see the good news, whether it is sold or not sold. And so, I think we are at this stage, where we expect the superstition to use this piece of investment within the superstition, how it will make better use of the assets, and in this case your own airport.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Minister. Minister, please stay, if you can, five minutes in the Chamber to address the questions that will not be discussed. About half of them are your department. And you, Mr. Koukoutsi, please, wait. The fourth, with number 1445/5-9-2017, topical question from the First Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Dangerous lack of cardiologist and surgeon at the Centre for Health of Karpathos”, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthi. The fourth under number 1384/1-9-2017 a top-level question for the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Login of Law 128/1975", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the questioner. Also, the second question with number 1388/4-9-2017, the second question of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "At the same time as the small savers who lost their money with the "haircut" of the debt in 2012, it will not be discussed after the Minister of Finance and Mr. The second question under number 5958/576/30-5-2017 question and application for the submission of documents of the reporting cycle - questions by the Independent MEP 2, Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "They were sought or not, in order to avoid a new cut in pension expenditure under the latest Law 4472/2017?" will not be discussed after the Minister and MP has been consulted. Also, the following questions will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the relevant ministers: The second, no. 1443/5-9-2017, top-stage question of the first-round question of the Athens MP, Mr. Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of National Defence, "regarding the amount of the objective value of the properties to be used by the Ministry of National Defence", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister of National Defence Mr. Panos Kammenos Kammenos. The first, with number 1381/1-9-2017, topical question by the MP of the PASOK Democratic Integration - DIMARMAR Mr.Michael Jeleli to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: “Emanouil Papa” and “Papalouka” camps, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of National Defence Mr. Panos Kammenos Kammenos. The third, with number 1380/30-8-2017, a top-stage question from the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Nossia Hospitals”, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. The seventh under number 976-6-2017 topical question from the Plenipotentiary Halkidiki of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Save Vlachos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Halkidiki Prefecture Escapes”, will not be debated due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. The eighth Question No 923/1-6-2017 topical question by the Member of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Following the Battle of the nation", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Education, Research and Religion Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Finally, the sixth question (No 1293/21-8-2017) by MP Fthiotidas of New Democracy, Christos Stakos, to the Minister of Finance, concerning the financing of actions by criminal actions against the Greek State and the allocation of funds for social purposes will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Huliarakis. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-11-S1-commons.u77	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.26 the sitting for Thursday, 14 September 2017, at 9.30, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
