ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 17-11-2017, Parliament's delegation was confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, its minutes of Friday 17 November 2017, with regard to: (a) the adoption of Parliament's Expenditure Report, financial year 2016; and (b) the adoption of the Parliament's Budget for Expenditure, financial year 2018.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and three educational sessions from the 3rd General High School of Argiroupolis. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Dissemination of Social Partition and other provisions'. The above bill, following the decision made by the Standing Committees on Economic and Social Affairs and Trade, on a proposal from the relevant Minister, is being discussed under the urgency procedure, in accordance with Rule 76(4) of the Constitution and Rule 109 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I would remind you that the debate and vote of the bill in plenary was scheduled for Thursday 16 November 2017, but was postponed by the President of Parliament Mr. Nicholas Voutsi, after communication with the Prime Minister Mr. Tsipras, due to the national mourning of the insurmountable tragedy that hit Western Attica. I would also like to remind you that in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents, of course, by a majority of 15 November 2017, the debate on the principle and the articles will be concluded at a maximum of ten hours. The rapporteurs and special speakers, the Prime Minister or the Minister responsible, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and one of their representatives, as well as an Independent MEP, are involved in the debate. Their speech is limited to half the time provided for in Rules 97 and 103 of the Rules of Procedure. I propose, although not provided for in the Rules of Procedure, that five speakers from SYRIZA, three speakers from New Democracy, one speaker from the Democratic Independent PASOK - DIMAR, one speaker from the People's Association - Golden Dawn, one speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, a certain speaker from the Independent Greeks, a certain speaker from the Central Association, a certain speaker from the Potami and a certain speaker from the Independent Members. Finally, I propose that the debate on the principle and the articles should be uniform. With regard to speaking times, I propose that the rapporteurs and special speakers should have more than half the time I said at the beginning, that they have twelve minutes of speaking time, the competent ministers 13 minutes, the other ministers and State Secretarys eight minutes, the Prime Minister and President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, and the President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group 14 minutes, the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups twelve minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives ten minutes, the five-minute speaking parties. Before I asked the House whether it would agree, I was asked by Mr Loverdos to speak. You have the floor for three minutes, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u2	Thank you. Mr President, there has been a debate in the committees and a small one in the Conference of Presidents on Emergency. The committees have decided. Now this debate, Mr President, only makes sense to record the Minutes of the House. The Minister in his speech, as I read in the committees, referred to the reasons for the urgency, mainly in practical terms for actions to be taken, since the National Delegation would vote on this draft law on Thursday. But life came to disprove him. We had to mourn twenty dead, so that it would appear in practice, Mr President, that we could hear the operators one day? There was an objective space, as it turns out, since today we will have the final debate and make the decision. Did all these tragic things have to be done to prove that he was not right, that he was not telling the truth in this House, that he wanted to avoid the majority and the debate himself with the institutions? Because if the institutions came here and told their opinions, these supposedly generous and supposedly philanthropists that the government does, would prove in practice what they are. I would therefore like to stress, Mr President, that there has been another parliamentary smuggling, and I would like to ask at least the amendment, announced by the Government representative this morning, to be tabled to be voted on today and to the people affected in the West Attica, but also in other parts of Greece, to be tabled before our representatives are asked. Otherwise, provision should be made for another specific procedure for this, because otherwise all the positions on the many issues we have today are designed to discuss and such an amendment also wants an analysis to see what we are reading, but also a year to come. In this, please take a seat. I'm also going to ask you something else. This is personal and concerns you and is addressed by our parliamentary group. Yesterday we had a process which completed the election of the new head of the Centre and Centre Left. As the Minister for Finance has also been slain with his positions, without making a sense of humor this time, but with some arguments he has taken as seriously, I would at least like you, Mr President, as President-in-Office of today's sitting to say a good word to us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u3	Before I give the floor to Mr. Mada, who has obviously asked for the first point, the point of order, I will say that although, Mr. Loverdos, the procedure you referred to was a purely internal-party procedure,...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u4	We're two parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u5	...is directly related to the Parliamentary Republic, and it was a process which we have all followed, has been done in a perfect way. First of all, I should like to congratulate the whole House - I believe - Mrs Fofi Gennimata for her re-election to the institution in question, for being re-elected in the sense that he is now Head of the Democratic Assent. May we wish for good strength. I think it is a process that generally honors our democratic citizens. We're not talking about it. Everyone may have an opinion, but as far as the procedure is concerned, and the fact that I do not think there may be another view. That's the one. The second is that I will also give the Minister the floor to tell us when he will be submitted, because so far, as I have been informed by the Services, the amendment has not been tabled to the Services either. So I'm not in a position to tell you, Mr. Loverdo. However, because the competent Minister is present, if he wishes, after Mr Manda has informed us. I, too, think that at least before the parliamentary representatives are placed - because waiting for their statement and coming here before Mr Balauras begins, we will lose one hour and it is not in favour of the procedure - it would have been better if he had been tabled. But I will ask the Minister if he wants to let us know and take the floor. As far as the urgent procedure is concerned, you were also present. It's known. That is why I said, although it was not on paper, that it is by majority and with regard to the Conference of Presidents. Now, Mr Manda, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u6	I would say, Mr President - and I beg your pardon, my assessments are political - a political custom every time we start a process of attempting a number of issues. It's his right, but I point it out, so we know it. That's the first. Secondly, what politically angered me is that in a cynical and vulgar political way he tried to confront...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u7	Well, you're now a mild man. If you want, withdraw the "bulk" from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u8	No, listen to me and say it again: In a political cynical and political vulgar way he attempted...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u9	What did I do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u10	...to support the argument that the urgent procedure has collapsed on the tragedy the people who were hit by this natural disaster, which tied up - if you want - with the timeless deficiencies in total of the anti-military measures. I consider that politically and vulgarly and cynical. As far as the urgent procedure is concerned and the arguments about what it is and what it is not, they have already been told to the committees, and this issue is, in my opinion, closed. For the rest, the amendment must obviously come at some point so that the political forces can be placed with sufficient authority. However, this does not in any way reduce - and I think that is where we will all agree - the need for this initiative to be taken and for people to be strengthened in whatever means we have in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u11	Good. I understand that Mr. Loverd did not raise a point of change of procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Loverdo, I've seen you. Wait. He simply said his objections about the word 'Urgent'. He didn't ask for anything else. It is known that if the committees and the Conference of Presidents have voted, this is considered to be the case. Has the Minister left yet?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u14	He went out for a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u15	I wanted to ask him on the subject of the amendment. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for a minute, but don't start fighting now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u16	I have no interest in that, Mr President. I just want to make a clarification, since the majority colleague considers it necessary. I said that the postponement given as a result of a tragic event proved that it existed from time to time. Nor did I mention the facts in themselves nor did I start the criticism. The problems of understanding the majority representative are his own problems. I can't do anything about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u17	Good. Mr. Dendias has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Mada, all right. Don't worry about it now. He didn't say anything special.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u20	No, Mr President, you will give me the floor again. It can't be done!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u21	It is time limited, if we lose one hour in procedural terms...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u22	Just a second!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u23	Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, I would just like to ask the Government what it intends to do about today's communications on measures for those affected. If it intends to bring an amendment, what is this amendment, when it will be tabled. It has become common to the government to legislate by means of announcements outside the hall. I think, for a change, it would be wise, useful, beneficial and correct for the government to have informed the National Representation first. He didn't do it. In any case, we should know, if it brings an amendment, when it will bring it, so that we can see it, discuss it, propose our views as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Teddy, you're right. At the time when you entered the Chamber that is exactly what I said and that is why I asked where the Minister is, because I said that, before we started, if the Minister wanted to inform us, we would know in advance. I also said, in order to keep this in mind, that at least before Parliamentary representatives take the floor the amendment must have been tabled. Just don't waste time, waiting for Mr Balaurras to come up in Step. Here, Mr Manda, you have the floor for a minute and the point of order is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u26	I will speak for a second, Mr President. Its understanding of the return of the parliamentary representative of the Democratic Integration, because everyone understands in this Chamber how each of us uses topicality and facts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u27	My opinion is that today we must be as calm as we can.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u28	No, no, we won't!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u29	From what I have seen from the votes, other than the Golden Dawn, which expressed reservations and we will hear today what its final position is, all the other parties are voting in favour.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u30	That's not about us, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u31	I'm generally speaking, Mr. Mada. If we start fighting before the first rapporteur is placed, I think it's not helping.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor for a minute and we'll be done. We all want to make an urgent statement now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u34	It is not too urgent for urgency, because we know that depreciation and leg-holding are now panacea. What is important to hear in the Chamber is that on Friday, the Greek Parliament opened a code with EUR 1,000,000 for those affected. It would be nice if everyone knew. I happened to chair Friday. The President of Parliament himself opened a code by giving 1,000 000 to support to the affected. That's what we did as a parliament. What the government intends to do, we expect to see it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u35	That's well known.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u36	We therefore expect to see what is going to happen with the amendment, because it is right that Mr Lovers is right that it is important for us to be placed as rapporteurs and as parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u37	Will you let us know, Minister? I don't give you time, because I guess you'll be short.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u38	I would like to say, Mr President, that there will be an amendment to the extraordinary support for those affected who come to the House at approximately 14.00 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u39	That means practically - to have a picture - that will come when they are finished - they will not have finished exactly - the general rapporteurs and the special speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u40	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Kutsuko, your parliamentary representative spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u42	We will also talk after the amendment. You can't deprive us of the word.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u43	That's all. We need to see how many pages the amendment will be and so on. You're right about that. I say to you that, as the Minister has said, the amendment will come to an end so that the other speakers and Parliamentary representatives will take it into account before they come to the Stepma. I understand what you said and yes, that may be an extra two-minute in your time to talk about the amendment. We're starting with the rapporteurs. The first is Mr Balauras, the general rapporteur for SYRIZA. Mr Balaura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Fellow colleagues and colleagues, in the tragic days of the day, with the great number of dead and the destruction of life from the misery of poor households, the mills to counterpopulation do not even applaud human suffering. They say it is the region and Duru's fault for at least for the 40 years of lawlessness, for the drought and deforestation of forests, with the cover, but not the unpunished and urgement of the old political system. "You, secretaries and Pharisee hypocrites"! Colleagues, there is today a bill on the social dividend that the overwhelming majority of the parties are voting in favour of. Last year, such days, New Democracy and PASOK, mostly, and the media friendly to them had come to the bars, not only within, but, unfortunately, outside the country. They were insulting, begging, I'd say, the troika intervening. "Vasta, Gerun," they shouted, begged. But they collected the ridicule and indignation of the world and were forced to show, without believing, that they would agree. Even so, welcome. What are they, and who are they about the social dividend? Why now and where did the money come from? Why is it given? They share 1,400,000 euros in about three and a half million people, i.e. over 1/3 of the population, but which have been most affected by the crisis. It is not just a help, colleagues, to them. It stems from our ideology, from the soul of the Left, and within the Memorandum we show and continue to show - and we will continue it much longer when we leave the memorials - the class division of the non-occupied and possessed. The citizens are being given EUR 720 million, which is duty-free, irresponsible, without reservations and without change - very important - of income criteria. There are also 300 million retired people who the New Democracy Government - PASOK illegally pissed off. We abolished it last year and now we're giving back the retrospectives. The PPC provides 360m euros, with the result that the social domestic tariff is reduced by 70%. It'll double last year. I repeat the phrase: the social invoice will be reduced by 70%! The opposition is asking - and Mr Loverdos has already said - why are we now giving the dividend? First of all, everyone knew about it. In their statements by the Government representative and government officials and ministers, responsible and unresponsible, they said that this year they would be given - we did not know the amount - social dividend. It wasn't lightning. Here may be laughing at the Greek people and, of course, we in here, but even the opposition, which will be ridiculing about this fracture, when they say the Koufontina bill is coming, for the Central Elections. Welcome to the elections, and I hope that Mr Manos and Mr. Psomadis, who were central to the vote in the day before yesterday, will...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u45	Keep an eye on everything!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u46	How do we do it? Aren't we going to see you? I'll see you around. You're provoking. You're scratching on the slut! You challenge it because you say we brought it in to change the agenda. What's the agenda? That elections are taking place in your party, without ideological direction, without ideological aiming, without anything. Tell us, Mr. Kutsuko, if you express your party, what is your direction?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u47	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u48	Don't make personal reports.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u49	Good. So the dividend is given so that the multiplier can function. You all know that elasticity in the consumption of domestic products favours them. Will the "hidden" in society get caviar? They'll get what's necessary to live. As a result, growth in 2017 will be strengthened and growth data will be generated in 2018. So this should be done as soon as possible. Where does the money come from? And Mr Theocharis and others said yesterday that it is a product of overtaxation. Mr Theocharis, in fact, knows very well - he has dealt with these and participated in discussions with the troika - that these are non-measurable measures, ladies and gentlemen, that the institutions do not accept them in calculating the financial results. These are measures such as tax evasion, which say: "The others were telling us they would hit tax evasion and nothing they did." We are told: “And the previous governments told us that they would increase it and nothing did.” So to go in detail: there is an excess of EUR 448 million from insurance contributions, because employment has increased. Unemployment has just fallen below a million and this is a truly important fact, which shows the trend. When he falls below 20%, it will be another significant event. We're not celebrating. We're still hurting because one million of our unemployed and especially young people, it's not like you're spending it and celebrating, like other governments did. At the same time, we hit undeclared and black labor. You know that we are not fond of any 'our own child' because we do not have 'our own children' as we did in the previous system. Secondly, we have EUR 598,930,000 certified taxes from the VDI, namely voluntary disclosure of income. 6.6 billion has been recorded and 208 million euros have already been entered. We are giving of this - so much we estimate that it will be until the end of the year, because there are doses - around 450 million euros. Therefore, with these two measures alone, the amount is EUR 1 billion. Smuggling: By 2014, when we had a government of New Democracy - PASOK, the result was 165 million euros. We in 2016 - not to say the whole number by two and a half years - charged 525 million euros. I repeat the numbers: By 2014 New Democracy and PASOK received 165 million euros. In 2016 we managed and charged 525 million euros. The application of plastic money increased in 2016 by 108%. We were first throughout the European Union. Total card transactions are now with 47% of total transactions. Lagard List: Verified, until 2014, 23m euros. They were hidden in drawers, they didn't find them. In our government, 279 million euros. As a lot of pain comes out of here for professionals' tax and insurance data, I would like to say that not only professionals, but also farmers, have a lower burden of 75% to 90%. I would like to say about the distribution of the dividend in 2014, which Mr Brutsis mentioned yesterday, but also others. The distribution took place in April 2014, i.e. it burdened the use of that year. The budget was then for 1.5% of GDP, i.e. EUR 3 billion. What did they get? What did you get, Mr. Brutsi? Only 77m euros, or 0.043%. That is why you were unable to close the fifth evaluation and, because you saw that SYRIZA was coming to an end, the “save one is saved.” The “sacrificial self-sacrificing oneself” did not care very much. You did well to leave. But you have also left the funds empty and with problems of this kind, as I have said before. So to implement your line of parole, you did this: In the hundred and sixty days that disturbed Europe and the extremists of the lenders as the moderns of the Netherlands, which said 'Carchidon must be destroyed', the outsiders, instead of 'Carthago delenda est', said 'Athenae delenda est' and you said 'SYRIZA delenda est'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u50	What were we talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u51	You said publicly: "SYRIZA must be destroyed." Siomple and his company were said to be "Athens to be destroyed."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u52	Excuse me, "delenda" is female. ‘SYRIZA delenda est’?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u53	Okay. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u54	We'll do a Latin seminar later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u55	You said that, Mr. Comrade. You claim the feminineity of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Dendia, I understand you because all the main lines of your policy have collapsed. Day-to-day requests for elections. Don't close, you said, the evaluation. In fact, you have tried not to close the evaluation. Now you yelled 'orta, Symble', you didn't call 'basta, Gerun'. There's no strategy for you. There's a mistreat. There is a discomfort and, when there is a discomfort, a gap arises. Who's got that void? Those forces in your party that are far-right and give the seal and identity to the New Democracy. Scandalology: We said beforehand what you said and what you did. Incoherence. You told us here that we were going to change the city. Despair eventually and undermining - due to despair - as Mrs Xafa did abroad. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] All of this, while everyone - both the Community and the IMF and the international organisations and the analysts and the international media - is talking about an impressive recovery in the Greek economy with growth, improving investment climate and correcting macroeconomic data. But you only made these choices to spread fear and insecurity to the citizens. SYRIZA still has a lot to do, committed to the world of work. We will, however, constantly blame you - not just us, but the whole society - for changing the moral model of society. You set up the model of lawlessness and broke social conscience. And you keep doing it. I call on you to make a resolution at some point and say what measures we recommend that the European Union should take to combat legal evasion. I am telling you one fact: five billion in the three years that we have had a tax facility - let me say so - had two major companies - one of which was 'GOOGLE' - of which it has been with Europe. Inconceivable amounts! I will mention another: I received an e-mail from Gordon Brown, the former Labour Prime Minister in Great Britain, who asked for support to implement these measures taken in 2010 at the G20 Summit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Balaura, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u58	I will end in a minute, Mr President. I've been interrupted already. Remove time, please. Gordon Brown asked that broad support be made so that these could finally be burned. I conclude, Mr President, by saying what Jeremy Corbin, the Labour Chief, has said, too, in Great Britain: 'Everyone who puts money into tax havens to avoid taxation, should do two things: firstly, apologize and, secondly, recognise what he is doing in our society'. He said so by addressing Queen Elizabeth. So I and all of us are addressing you: What are you doing in our society? As much as you wish, of course, you will not succeed in becoming 'the wolf that will keep the sheep again'. The Greek people have paid dearly for your pillaging, corruption, sea-loving, bankruptcy, dissolution of everything, but they have learned. We're coming for a clear hope to get out of the black hole that you've thrown the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr Balaura. The rapporteur for the New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate in plenary today continues under the heavy national mourning of this unspeakable tragedy, which would quite simply say 'no'. I remember characteristics on Wednesday when the debate in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure began to take place when the size of the tragedy began to be revealed, all the SYRIZA Members, one after the other, had reached their conclusion. Half of them said that this unscrupulous tragedy was due to 40 years of previous governments and half of them were to blame for global climate change. That was the position of SYRIZA MPs. But today, when the sludge ramp has fallen, today when we all have awelessly seen this unscrupulous tragedy with the twenty-dead, and we wish to end here - and still missing, I believe that we must all stand above small-scale, petty-speaking, positioning, to stand responsibly against a world that has been affected. I believe that we must join forces, stand by the world and discuss measures which will ease the pain of those affected. It is a political and moral obligation for the political system to find ways to ease and reduce the suffering of these people, to stand by their problem and, above all, to the families of the wronged. At the same time, however, it is a political and moral obligation for the political system in general, of all the parties, to give answers to ruthless questions, which are now raised to every citizen, other than parties, questions that have to do with responsibilities. If there are responsibilities, that is, where they are focused and accounted for. I think this also results from the discussion of all the political parties, rapporteurs and MPs, but there are also the ruthless questions and demands of society that come in to correct them and do not exist in the future. We are asking ruthless questions and questions arise, such as what I will describe below, and which I think all of us are concerned. Was the Meteorological Service anticipated, yes or no, extreme weather phenomena? If the extreme weather phenomena had been foreseen, what measures did Civil Protection take to deal with these issues? If the extreme weather phenomena were to be predicted, Civil Protection issued an alert, as it should have been, to the inhabitants, has it taken measures to inform and protect the residents, especially in sensitive and vulnerable areas, such as Mandra? After the fires of the term Father, the region, which is responsible and has taken measures for the risk of the situation as formulated? Whose streams are they? This is where the irreversible question comes in: Are the streams cleared this year? Who's responsible for this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u61	Whoever screwed it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u62	What action has the region taken with regard to anti-military armour and emergency weather reports? Because the region also had to take into account exceptional weather conditions. Is it true, or is it not true that the anti-military study for this region was completed by the end of 2014? If it is true, what did the region do for three years and did not complete it? Was there a problem of financing the flooding and the work that the region had to do for three years in this region? If there was a financing problem, we ask why. The previous regional administration delivered a very significant sum as a balance to the new regional administration, Ms. Duru. What about that money? Is it or is it not true that 220 million euros from the regional funds went to the Bank of Greece? Is anyone gonna answer that? We are going to the issue, which has been heard from the region and from the SYRIZA side. It makes sense. He wants to justify her. He's your man. His choice was in the election. So the argument about bureaucracy has been heard. So I ask this: in the three years that SYRIZA has been running and in the other three and a half years that Mrs Durou is at the wheel of the region, has there been a legislative initiative by Mrs Dourou, who has come to Parliament or to the side of SYRIZA to reduce bureaucracy and SYRIZA has not made it acceptable? And the Annells together, because we're forgetting them sometimes. Was there? Has there been a legislative proposal from the region to solve bureaucratic problems? One last question, which I think in the next few days will be very intense: in other cases, where there have been disasters without victims in the last three years, and the government has taken relief measures and communications, the money has finally arrived after a period of time that we are discussing today? In Skopelos, for example, in the last disaster, did the money come after the government's promises and commitments? It is also a series of other areas where the promised resources have not been provided. All these relentless questions, ladies and gentlemen, I think they are also about today's debate. We have heard the Minister and the Government representative announce measures to relieve the population, for which we have no objection. Welcome. There's so many more. But they must be truly realistic. Finally - and I say this to the government majority - you also go next door to the people. I say this very well, because I agree with what is being said, that the presence of the Prime Minister, of every Prime Minister - I am not referring to Mr Tsipras - is symbolic, to be next to the residents who are grounded. It has a remarkable symbolism that encourages and urges the first-line groups, which relieve and solve the problem close to our affected fellowman, encourage him and encourage him. Follow our example without envy, without wanting to lay blame. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, without big voices, went, found close to the people. We announced measures. We'll stand next to the measures you bring in, we'll support them. I repeat, however, that it must be realistic and indeed. Then, now, I want to say something about the committee, because there were new data on the social dividends itself. I cannot fail to describe a negative picture that the Minister of Finance, Mr. Tsakalotos, shaped in his position at the closure of the committee, which, in a ironic and provocative way, swinging the finger - as to students - towards Civicism, was challenging us and fighting us because we dared, Minister of Finance, to say that in the three years, with your own economic policy, with the financial derailment of the Ministry of Finance of Varoufakis - Tsakalotos - together you were! - we lost 30 billion euros of wealth. This is a wealth lost by the pockets of every household, every unemployed person, every Greek citizen. You have invoked us and you have been sanitized because we said that this social dividend is a product of overtaxation and your left-wing, a product of disastrous contributions, which its predecessor, Mr. Katrugalos, called "tax choice". You invoked us for that and you fought us. You insulted us because we dared to say that the evidence shows that there is a delay in the declining of unemployment and that with your responsibility two thousand jobs were lost by the end of 2016. In fact, de-escalation is now taking place, which shows reliable sources, such as 'ERGANI' and ELSTAT, which you did not accept as a professor, you were supposed, when you were opposition from Syntagma Square. You only accepted the unemployment of UNICE - UNICE, which you have forgotten today. In 38% the UNHCR says unemployment is now at stake. That's what SYRIZA invoked. The figures show, therefore, that the de-escalation, which is actually taking place, started in 2013, due to the reforms that have taken place, which you do not embrace, but you want to taste their fruits. Unfortunately, however, the unemployment that is deviating is not only late, it is also unhealthy, because full-time jobs are being exchanged in part-time employment. Unfortunately, at 62.26%, "ERGANI" showed part-time and rotating employment in October, breaking all the records. Do you triumph for this, for the generation of 360 euro workers? Is that SYRIZA's philosophical policy? The birth of EUR 360 workers, EUR 360, pensions, as you did with widow's pensions. You insulted us because we dared to say that those who will take this dividend today, and the rest of the citizens and the middle class, which the Minister of Finance has designated from a step of the House from EUR 12 000 to EUR 18 000 - this is the middle class according to SYRIZA, now - from 1-1-2019 to 31-12-2022 - will pay EUR 7.5 billion, new measures! Only for 2018 will be EUR 1.9 billion. You're not questioning it. It is the CSCE of the low-pensioners, it is the VAT of the islands for the remaining thirty two islands, it is the exterminatory contributions, the classics, which are your choice, and the overtaxation of the middle-class class, which Mr. Juliarakis said, is the special end on the rooms and on the hotels, it is all about which you reacted when we told you. In any case, I stress and say again that the New Democracy will vote for the social dividend. And that's why you gave up on us. I ask SYRIZA's colleagues very simply: your rapporteur, Mr Balauras, in his speech to the committee said it was the wrong way of sharing the social dividend last year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u63	I said there were some mistakes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u64	I leave beyond the bloody dividend you mentioned at the Samara dividend in 2014. I'm leaving it. I don't mention it again. But I say that last year the New Democracy did not vote against the dividend, the New Democracy voted 'at present', because it said that it should be given in a targeted and fair manner, with income criteria, because, as it turns out, the social dividend was taken by MPs and people who had an income side, who should not have taken it. But there was also something else that Mr Tsakalotos and the SYRIZA Members missed to say: the humiliating letter, unprecedented for a country, for a government and Minister of Finance, which I present, Mr Tsakalotou, apologizing and repentant on the part of the institutions and the troika about how it was not given and says that 'we will not do it again'. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] It is a letter which has not only been politically and morally condemned, but has also had a substantial, negative effect on the pocket of the Greeks. Because he delayed evaluation and brought negative results. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, by ending, of course, one euro should go to the weak of our country and one euro should go to the weak social groups. That's the philosophy of the New Democracy. But we differ because it is a dark political project of SYRIZA that the Greeks are poor and the logic of creating a political allowance. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We are poor and give a single purpose to make a customer a living and to make him dependent on this state-of-the-art tri-world conception of a government that seeks, by overtaxing and extermination, to make him dependent on it! We're different. Of course we're different. We're better. Of course we are better because we do not want poverty. We want to raise the standard of living of the Greeks. We want to free each Greek's creative powers. We want him to be proud of Greece, for his place and give him the opportunity to create wealth through this wealth, which is a tool, to support the weak social groups. Soon the people's judgment will be felt in person.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u65	I too will be allowed to present myself to the Minutes of this House, because I was very uncomfortable when I heard from my dear friend and colleague, Mackey Balaura, that 555 million euros were collected from smuggling. It is the answer Mrs Papanatsiou has given me on the same subject and says that the EUR 611 million confirmed is EUR 611 million and that the sums collected for the two years are EUR 13 million. I would ask you very much to testify to the Minutes for any colleague who wants to take them and read them. They're not my words. It's the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, I have said that myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u67	Take a look at the answer and then, if you want the floor, I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, let me read you exactly what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u69	See the answer and then I'll gladly give you the floor for two minutes to read it. I won't deprive you. We proceed with the special speaker of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Ioannis Koutsoukos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. We opposed the majority Thursday in the committee debate, Mr President, and I think we are entitled. Because it may have involved a tragic event, which has been costing twenty human lives, and changed the agenda, but the arguments I have put forward because this bill could not be urgent, applicable and confirmed. It is not only the elections in the centre-left that Mr Tsakalots has tried to do in reply to me, referring to Mr Psomadis and Mr Manos. Because he's got myopia glasses. She can't see two hundred and ten thousand civilians and shortens them to two. So did my friend Makis Balaouras, who cannot see the two hundred fifty who voted in Lehannes and who were his constituents and thanked them and now they have changed camp because people were disappointed by lies. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, a tragic event may have translated the debate by three days, as the developments have shown we are entitled to, because I believe that you have also received many questions in your regions, arising from the ambiguity of the legislation and from the Prime Minister's announcements. Are we going with the implied income? The guests will get a social dividend? Do many more questions arise and, in any case, the report of the Scientific Council of Parliament, Mr Ministers, has not bothered you, which says that you cannot obtain a general authorisation, cannot the House legislate to share the money with a minister? Haven't you read these? I believe, since you're teaching us here every time from the great universities you teach, that at least this lesson will have to learn it well, that you have to respect what the scientists of this House say. Such an authorisation you can't take her. Ladies and gentlemen, however, I believe that our look on this day must be found in the families of the victims and the affected. Mr President, once the amendment is tabled, I will insist that I take the floor on the amendment, because we need to find in what practical ways we will strengthen the affected ones. Mr. Balaouras, who has been sitting here in front of me, the dear friend Makis, knows very well that in the floods in Varda for two years, in 2015, which were affected by more than a hundred businesses, the pentokill has not yet been paid, what we will legislate here. And he knows very well as a Member of the Elias that we have unfinished fires from 2007 and the 2008 earthquakes. So we need to see how we legislate in a practical way, how this assistance is coordinated, so that it works. These are not solved by amendments to the plate at the last minute. That's why we want to talk. Dear friends of SYRIZA and you dear Mackey, don't have this prerogative to protect Mrs. Duru. Mrs. Duru is a district manager for three years, and you've been in government for three years. He can't have any responsibility. I cannot blame Amaliada and Mrs Durou for having no responsibility. You want me to remind you, dear Maki, why the Prefect Elijah was tried? You want me to remind you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u71	I see a tenderness. It's good not to make personal references.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u72	So I ask you to be very careful when it comes to responsibilities. Right now, our eyes are in the victims and in restoring damage. We will also find our responsibilities politically and the ones that need to be. I come now, ladies and gentlemen, at the heart of this debate. We showed a consistency. You know that very well. We contributed, as part of the Samara - Venizelos government, to paying the 2014 dividend, what Mr. Tsipras called "blooded", called "life in the grave", psychiatric, hospital, scarves. And when you brought the dividend last year, we consistently supported it. Although it was from overtaxation, we said that even 1 euro would be, going to a poor and undignified one. We submitted a proposal to you last year, which said that the dividend should be 1.9 billion, not 670 billion, and we said that this should go to family protection, that all children should go to nurseries, that they should go to employment aid, especially young scientists, with reduced contributions, that they should go to production, focus, tax reduction, where the top of development is, to multiply the product and create incomes, not deprive ourselves of it. You didn't hear us. And now you're coming back with the same recipe. You come with a regulation, which is general in nature, which says that they will get 3.4 million and that you will share 720 million. And I read yesterday, of course, that there is also a scenario to increase the surplus of 2.21% provided for in the preliminary draft budget and get it to 3.1%, that is, another 700 million. Come on, then, to discuss how to combine the help of the poor and the weak with the help of the real economy and those who can multiply the result. Because our aim is not to poor the citizens and then to say that we are helping them. Our aim is to produce wealth. And this procedure of overtaxation obviously, ladies and gentlemen, is enslaving the economy. You know very well - because you have voted for them - that the three years of your government 2015-2018, the surpluses are 18 billion. These 18 billion surpluses came out, ladies and gentlemen, from the measures in the third memorandum that were cumulatively 12.5 billion and from the measures in the fourth memorandum that are 4.9 billion. Seventeen taxes and twenty-seven cuts. This is your accomplishment. And because one of you may question them, these are the introductory reports of the 2016 and 2017 budgets with the measures set out in the third memorandum. And these cuts in expenditure include, among other things, CSR, widows and orphans. Don't tell me that you're doing class politics because the data came out yesterday and the majority doesn't pay, because you've now made a system of contributions, which has led many free professionals to declare consciously reduced revenues in 2016. That doesn't bother you. How do you agree, ladies and gentlemen, to say that we have growth, that growth has come, that you have come to celebrate it, that you are celebrating while the declared incomes are falling? Can you tell me that? So, ladies and gentlemen, there is a problem linked to overtaxation, there is a problem that is linked to the loss of expected GDP of 19 billion over three years, after all the forecasts fell out, since in 2015 it was a disaster with your own responsibilities and Mr Varoufakis and his adjoined Mr Tsakalotou, who learned from us the day before yesterday. He told us that "if you wanted to make an exit in 2014, you would take out President Kouvelis, you would not go to elections". Mercy! That you had the parrots blaming Mr. Kuveli as a new Chirimoco, did you forget? Did you forget that you said that "even Mr. Tsipras to vote, we are going to take you to elections", that you led to the closure of a course of the country that the Greek people had paid for with their sacrifices, to balance the deficits and to launch a development process that was unspeakable at the end of 2014 and that you took it into recession in 2015 and 2016? And you're blaming us already? Can you move our class finger too? The first lesson is the truth! You will agree with the truth and then you will come and talk, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u73	Why didn't you close your fifth evaluation? You didn't answer us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u74	Mr Tsakalotos, we did not close the fifth evaluation because Mr Tsipras went to say 'Don't account for them, we will be a government'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u75	Yeah, yeah, that's what happened!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u76	Yeah, yeah. They're familiar with this. And when we suggested closing the fifth evaluation with the famous e-mail Hardouveli of one billion, you said that we would take three billion euros. And you came after and took 12.5 for glory of the famous negotiation that ended in a defeated, in terms of defeat, captivity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u77	Why didn't you turn it off? No matter what we were talking about, why didn't you shut it down?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u78	That's the reality. He'll accompany you, Mr. Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u79	Tell us a word. Why didn't you turn it off?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u80	Minister, don't make me comment on you. When you talk, you'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, I am coming on the basis of all the financial information I have submitted to committee and I am presenting today to you that 613 million and 720 million cumulatively are 1/10 of what you have taken with the long hand of the tax office and cuts, even from the widows and orphans, from the ESS, from the reduction of pensions by Greek citizens. And there is, of course, in your bill the provision to return what pensioners are entitled to, based on judicial decisions. And you forget - and the rapporteur's report and the amended provisions are on it - that in 2016 you increased the contribution to the EEAS 6% to the main pensions and 4% to subsidiary pensions and you get 700 million a year. And now you'll give 320 for the entire period. And you have a point of order to give PPC 340 more for the services of general interest so that consumers don't pay them. Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, have you forgotten where you have reached PPC with your management? That PPC had 1,4 unresolved in 2014 and that is now more than 3 billion? That he had a share value of 2.5 billion, and now he has a few million? That you're selling 50%, even the megapolis lignite unit that keeps the balance in the southern network? We will vote for PPC as well, but our wish is that Greek citizens should not pay it twice. Ladies and gentlemen, to close, we will insist that your legislation, in the way it is done, is incomplete and problematic and needs what the Prime Minister has said in his speech, and I have it here, to table it in the form of legislation binding on the Minister. Because, as the Scientific Council says, no Minister can share without the legislator, namely us, the essential regulations and the purposes of the regulation, have been described. Since I see you are not prepared, because you wanted to pass it all without debate, without debate, with the urgency, at least we will claim to be placed when you table the regulation on aid for the affected, because I think it is a very serious matter. Mr. Kaklamanis beat me to it. I had the evidence here about the tax evasion. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is regrettable that from the Lagard list you have received only 43 million, from the Borgians list only 137 million and from the foreign transfers only 44 million. So this is not the fight against tax evasion, from which you say you are giving the surplus. These are the words that you have been left with the lists in your hands, after the decision of the Council of State. You disguise the world, saying that you are then giving them help. You make them poor and then "to burn you, Giannis, to lure you oil". Thank you very much. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, too, for being relatively brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u84	Mr Balaura, you have the floor for a minute, so I won't blame you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, you said that Mr Koutsoukos spoke with tenderness. The ending that leads, though? I will say for you now, for your own sake - with introductory words - yours. I said in my position'reckoning from smuggling' and mentioned the numbers. I didn't say a word. As for the 1 billion - I asked you and told me - this is from HNVIA, because of an increase...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u86	I didn't talk about it. You have the question in front of you. He's not talking about HICPIA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u87	It's from the FBI. The second is the VDI, i.e. the voluntary disclosure of incomes. That's it. The rest...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u88	Half a billion is on paper.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u89	I would also like to say a sentence on the floods of Mandra.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Balaura, not now. Then, yeah. We move on to the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr. Ioannis Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u91	Thank you. First of all, I would like to begin by saying that last Wednesday we discussed this issue in the committee, it proved once again how liars they are, SYRIZA and ANELs. When we - together with other parties - had to come up with bodies to listen to their views and see what they say, the Minister, who is now absent, told us that it was not possible, because time is suffocating and pressing and that if we do not catch up with the existing procedures and dates, this money will be lost. And he told us that we should have a vote next day by 20.00. Otherwise, we'd lose the money. But, with the naturality and the dead we have - unfortunately, also condolences to the victims and their families - what has been proved? That there was nothing like that. Just, once again, these liars, who have learned to move, have learned to do and say, mock us in front of our eyes. And not just us, of course, but all of the Greek people. And SYRIZA's rapporteur called then "Come on, run and make it." And so it was perhaps the first time, at least as much as I am in Parliament, that a bill came, even in urgent form, and we did not listen to the institutions. Why is that? After giving the world money, cons of SYRIZA and ANEL, why didn't you want the institutions to come and hear their views and thank you for being so merciful? On the contrary, you have done all this in secret, once again, in order to justify the irregularities and injustices you are making. In order to say how we legislate here in the Greek Parliament, what orgyes SYRIZA and ANEL are doing and how weak the Separatist Anti-Policy of the New Democracy, which cannot throw these caricatures out of the government chairs, is shown. So we have seen who will actually be discussed in the House and in the committee. A pocket is given, from what you have stolen through the pockets of the Greek people and through which you will steal them again in 2018, from the beginning of the year, which you will get twice and three times what you will allegedly give them. And we do not know, even now - we have asked the committee, and we ask you now - to see who will be receiving this allowance. Who will they be? You're not telling us. You tell us that by means of a joint ministerial decision the money will be given to some people somewhere. This does not satisfy us and does not cover us, because we know what crooked politicians you are. So we expect you to tell us today, until the debate in plenary is over, how much this money will be, and how much money will be, and not in general and indefinitely, to throw ashes into the eyes of the world. So we challenge you, and we expect you, who have operated professionally and work, to tell us who and when they will take them. You don't know. You want to consult after, over time, and see where you're going to give it. So all this is communication and has proved once again to be a perimeter, unfortunately, with the death of our fellow citizens. So this reversible government, which has been mocking for two and a half years and the Prime Minister has been proclaiming - says - Greece in a situation of three days of mourning. What was the three-day mourning? The next day the debate in plenary was postponed, because it was obviously for you to go another two or three days back to escape the enormous problems that your co-pilot Kammenos is causing you, with the scandals he is making. So you took it back. On Friday here the House normally did its processes. There was no three-day mourning. We saw the Prime Minister - God make him - of Greece gone and go to Sweden the next day and take pictures like something stupid they were coming back there, picnicing - victory. That was the process. And the culmination of the three-day mourning was when we saw a SYRIZA MP go to television channels and awkward the mayor of Mandra and the regions that were affected, instead of closing his mouth and respecting the mourning and suffering these people were taking. It was the three-day mourning of the Left. Be well! So, among the measures we propose on the situation of those affected in Mandra, Aspropyrgos and all regions of the western Attica are the following: The exemption from the ETUC for at least five years, at least, of the people affected. Direct valuation and recording of losses to activate the European Union Solidarity Fund and all other European Union funding sources. The free supply of electricity and water for as long as required to restore damage. The direct activation of insurance contracts clauses for IX, for houses and for businesses, where they refer to instruments, categorically, cases of natural disasters, without the submission of tens of supporting documents they need, but only with the autopsy report of the relevant public committee, so that people can get their money and be able to stand on their feet a little more quickly. Help them with what we can. We also propose the proclamation of those affected as a vulnerable social group. It is something that, supposedly, your democratic arch has made it candy for any illegal immigrant who enters our country illegally. We therefore call on the government to buy as a vulnerable social group and those affected in this region and to give them all the rights you are gratifyingly giving to all immigrants. We expect you to do this to show us that you are social solidarity and sensitive. And finally, it's some money, a sum that's about 6.5m euros right now, master thieves of the democratic arch that you're holding on to us with so I want some decision you made yourself here, because you were afraid of Golden Dawn, because we were the only ones to give money to our Greek fellow citizens, because we were the only ones to give what we could. We had done social medicine and cared for Greek citizens and accused us of racism. So we have asked, because we alone have given the Greek citizens money - with our Chief's decision, the sum of EUR 1 000 000 at the moment, to be given to the people affected by theory. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Take the money that you illegally withheld from the fund, unless you've put it in any pockets - you may have taken it, because you get used to it like that - and give it to the wounded. These are the proposals of the Golden Dawn. These are the proposals of those who have no proposals, while all of you here have proposals for how to put them in the pocket! You have the best proposals!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u92	Let me have a break, Mr Rabbi. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since we have previously participated in the educational programme "We are investigating and discussing Governor Ioannis Kapodistrias", twenty students and students and seven teachers from the 2nd Acharon High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Go on, Mr. Rabbit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u93	And let's go on some topical issues. So you see the'socially sensitive' at a time when the Greeks are actually going through very difficult situations in their everyday lives, to increase on Friday - if I remember correctly - the costs of the Greek Parliament by 1,000 000 euros. Really? Are we going this well? You should first of all pay for all this money, since you have it and you are spared, to give it to the pensioners and the employees, to the people who work for 500 euros. There they should go and not take them supposedly for the costs of the Greek Parliament. The Greek Parliament was fine last year without the extra million. So don't give me that. As we will also denounce once again all the thieves of the democratic arch who were shared a few days ago with EUR 1.577 000 on money that is party subsidies. This money should be given - I repeat - to people who are hungry and not to share it with you. This is where each party should be able to operate on its own. As the Golden Dawn has shown you against the illegal persecution you've been practicing us for so many years. So give me that money. And don't share it from the right in your left pocket, because that's how you've learned to do it. Let's go to the episodes that happened a few days ago, once again as a habit in Exarchia and not just in Exarchia. Throughout Athens it is now becoming slowly and slowly throughout the whole country. We see signs and monsters being made. We see people slaying because they take flares on their feet. The flares, of course, didn't go for them. Because there was an incident of domestic violence. There were side losses. The flares were going for the cops there. But that wouldn't hurt anyone. So we see people of the anarchist and communist space - knowing what we say - entering the Ministry of National Defence, making fun of everything and leaving and there are no inclinations, no arrests or nothing. So we see an iniquity for all the left scum that they have found in your own governance and they do what they want. To avoid hiding, you are their ideological and also their biological, in many cases, fathers. You're the ones who've covered them all these years. You're the ones who've made them feel that they're unavoidable. And of course in previous years, unfortunately, the New Democracy and the PASOK, which co-governed for about forty years, were their political patrons. They were the ones who excavated them and covered left lawlessness. Because we must finally say who all this comes from. Because, you know, terrorism in Greece has a name. All those who have killed, all those who have murdered and all those who have done this damage come from the extreme left. Let's talk about this, because we also read some SYRIZA announcements that didn't know what to say and talk about fascist actions, about things like that. Learn to say things by their name: communist actions were. And make sure that you stop those bums who, when they enter the Greek Parliament, your President of the Parliament, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Public Administration give orders to the Greek Police and the Greek Justice to release them. We must also emphasise, and congratulate the government, that the situation is evolving. From where we only had poachers, illegal immigrants who came from where they wanted from our borders and did what they wanted in our home country, we now have smugglers who enter and take part in the incidents. They're coming, they're coming, they're leaving, a few are arrested, some of them go and do whatever they want. We saw the last few days there was an announcement about the arrests made in the incidents and they were like some jokes that used to sound: they were, he says, two French, two Germans, one Italian, one Lithuanian and one Iraqi. Well done, you're doing fine. Make sure you keep this up. It's not going well at all. Your governance is really unacceptable, it's ridiculous. Hold me against the chairs. But there is also a disgusting Opportunism, which, unfortunately, cannot be thrown at you. From there on there there is a national opposition of the Golden Dawn, which will continue to talk about the Greeks, who are afflicted in our homeland.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u94	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. The majority of our people are living the savageness of the timeless anti-class policy of governments first of the New Democracy and PASOK, and now of SYRIZA, with a deterioration in their lives, with insignificant crimes at their expense, such as this in Western Attica. The real cause of this situation, behind the tragedies of the working class, is precisely the hunting of profit for which capital does not hesitate in the face of any crime. The huge catastrophes in the West Attica, but also elsewhere, once again highlight the tragic lack of infrastructure and government planning to protect against natural phenomena. They highlight the anarchy, anti-grassy character of capitalist development. They eventually highlight the contempt for man, which characterizes the capitalist system and those who serve it. The responsibilities of the current government, of course also of the previous ones, as well as of the Attica Region and municipal authorities, which over time serve large business monopolies, are criminal. Anti-military works face them as a cost. They do not choose them because they are not rewarding, they are not tolls to pay millions of euros. Those who show up as causes for climate change and extreme weather have to answer how victims are always the poorer ones. This propaganda is becoming more disgusting when it dares to lay the blame on the world, which a lifetime strives to put a tile in its head on an anarchy of construction, which the state itself excites. And at the same time they don't talk about the big business they've built on the streams. They're trying to blame the victims themselves to hide the real causes and the real guilty. The government announced this morning about the flooding affected by the legal measures, which are of course considered inadequate. In an effort to alleviate the anger that is going through these days for the lack of infrastructure and the current government, as I have said before, it adds to them a sum which, according to the announcements, is EUR 5,000 for each family and EUR 8 000 for businesses. We shall see the amendment when it comes, but we shall submit the requests from the associations in advance, as they have been discussed at a meeting in the region and claim them by the government. I'm putting it down for the Minutes so we don't have to eat time. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Christos Katsotis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Gentlemen, poverty, impoverishment, lost lives, as well as the loss of life of the floods and fires, accidents at work or, in fact, employers' crimes reveal the hideous face of this policy, which undermines every people's need for the recovery of profits from business groups. This is capitalist development: savage wage cuts and pensions, abolition of collective agreements, unfavourable taxation directly and indirectly, carpets, continuous cuts in funds for health, education and welfare, towels for disability pensions, pre-school allowances, cutbacks even of unemployment benefits, criminal absence of necessary anti-military works and anti-Semitism measures and other anti-Semitism, anti-Semitism options, implemented by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, and continued by SYRIZA - ANEL. This barbarism has been strengthened by the joint resolution of the third memorandum, adding new measures - fire, which have also continued to complete the assessments of capital. Your common strategy is the recovery of the capitalist economy, the creation of the friendly investment environment, the creation of bloody surpluses for the repayment of debt, which was created precisely for the financing of business and monopoly groups, and of course, to refinance, in order to make alleged investments, to bring about the normality of their profitability, or to 'fair growth', as you have described. The people pay for development, they get caught up in the crisis, and the political staff of the capital are mocking, once a year sharing a small one-off sum from the big bracelet, calling the "social dividend". SYRIZA, who once described the surplus and he "blooded" now talks about over-efficiency of the economy, about fiscal order, about efficiency in tax evasion and other such arguments, trying to cover up the savageness of fiscal and anti-grass politics, to create a climate of tolerance and much more, to the labour, people's families. The Government covers the origin of the over-efficiency of the measures. The Prime Minister said in his letter the other day, "We negotiated hard to dismantle the low layers, give breath". That sounds like a joke with Hoja. I imagine you all know it, and our people know it. Tax presumptions have led hundreds of thousands of workers to see tax increases hundreds or thousands of euros. Increases in indirect taxation, increases in VAT even in the remote islands, have led to increases in indirect taxation of nearly EUR 1,000 per family. Insurance contributions for self-employed workers have been evacuated, while pensions have been continuously reduced. Only the pension cuts made by the SYRIZA - ANEL government amount to EUR 16 billion, as I said the other day. Are we not talking about plunging down the minimum and underprivileged wages decided by the previous government and the current one, coupled with the abolition of collective agreements, has the wages of workers cut by more than 30% by 40% in total? The generalization of flexible forms of employment makes workers' lives even worse. Only by flexibility are 2.4 billion per year lost from insurance, according to the accountants you always invoke. Imagine how much the flexible worker loses, how his life is. You remove the people with unbearable taxation, great insurance contributions, with the evacuation of indirect taxes, with a levelling-up of social benefits, paid pensions, and the surplus of poverty, which you create, you respond with dividends to its recycling. From a hundred percent that you are curtailing by the employees and the self-employed, you are giving back one to the most impoverished and you are presenting it as justice, as a social policy. It requires a disguised courage to ask all those who have paid and paid thousands of extra taxes, premiums, reduced social benefits, to be satisfied with the reimbursement of a few hundred euros, which are not enough to cover anything. The government cultivates in the people's consciousness that it must reconcile with this misery, that it cannot be done otherwise, that the sacrifices, wherever they are, should be taken into place. We note that a small part of this over-performance will be distributed to those who are impoverished by this policy. Most of it will be used for new privileges and subsidies to capital. The government sought to deceive us with the size of the so-called social dividend, as well as with the number of beneficiaries. They talked about 1.4 billion euros and three and a half million beneficiaries. Of course, the beneficiaries, as was heard yesterday by members of the ruling party, will be a million. Of the EUR 1.4 billion, we also calculate some of the amounts illegally withheld by pensioners for the health sector. The General Accounting Office of the State calculates it to 315 million euros. It is also the subsidy to PPC of EUR 360 million in order to support the profitability of green groups, RES, which sell to PPC extremely expensive electricity. And in this fierce government effort to make white black and to ensure support and tolerance, workers must respond with the organization of their struggles to overthrow this policy. The government is preparing a new round with the new anti-grassroots prerequisites to close the third assessment, prerequisites for the smashing of the privileged benefits that are left and even hitting the trade unions, setting the target more decisively even the right to strike. The government is opening the electronic auctions of popular properties. On November 29, he starts confiscations electronically and threatens to suppress those who react. The working class with its trade unions needs to strengthen their solidarity and struggle, so that no house can pass into the hands of a banker and the funds, which come as the crows to grab the prey. The Government brings the 2018 budget, a tax burden, to create surpluses, with further cuts in funds relating to people's needs. Its concern, like the previous governments, is to ensure the profitability of monopolistic groups. That's why they're sacrificing people's needs. That is why we congratulate the BSE, the European Union, the International Monetary Fund. That confirms what the CCEE says, that SYRIZA has undertaken to do with more mathematics, more art, dirty work. That is why support from the capital representatives. The JRC will vote on the draft law in principle and on the articles, because it concerns the return of a small - very small - sum from the great robbery, its great predicament and, in any case, the poor income of workers and other people's strata from the intact wealth that produces and pockets the 'parasites'. The JRC calls on workers, the people, not to compromise with the recycling of poverty and to organise, to put before their own needs and to fight for them together with the JRC against the overall capital strategy, fighting for the signing of collective labour contracts, with increases in wages and loss compensation, the restoration of pensions, the transfer of tax burdens to the large capital, substantial measures to protect the unemployed, against privatisation and auctions, flooding and anti-smoking measures. We call on them to discuss in the workplace, in the industries, the preparation of a strike against the new fire measures, so that the reaction, resistance, the mobilisation of workers and other people's classes can be universal. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u96	Me too, Mr. Comrade. We proceed with the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr George Lazarides. Come on, Mr. Lazarides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin, I would like once again to express the sadness of the Independent Greeks for the innocent victims and the sincere and deep condolences to the relatives of the victims of this incredible disaster. Always respecting the memory of the victims, I move on to the debate. I would like to start with some answers to questions, which, in fact, have been unrelentingly described by the opposition as what has happened. Let's see what has happened and these problems have been created. And we are talking about problems in terms of environmental management. Are these problems today, or are there responsibilities for decades in depth? Because we have discussed here and in the committees many times, whether in the bill on forest maps or in the bill recently presented on structured surfaces, and we have stressed the problems created by unregulated construction over decades. You know, this isn't the first disaster that happened here in our homeland. In particular, on November 6, 1961, a strong theory is recorded here in Attica, which left forty dead and collapsed more than four hundred houses and about five hundred families were left homeless. This was in 1961, fifty-six years ago. What happened? Nothing. We're on. On November 2, 1977, there was a rain that lasted an hour and a half. Two thousand homes were flooded and a hundred seventy - two cars were carried away. Report: thirty-seven dead. What has happened since, forty years ago? Nothing. Another disaster: mid-1990s, October 1994. Strong rainfall resulted in the overflow of Podonnift. Result: Tens of seven people lost their lives. What's happened since then? Nothing. We're getting to today. The innocent victims we mourned the day before yesterday were precisely the result that nothing has happened over the years. We also have reports submitted by various professors over the years, who have called on the Governments of the two parties that ruled over all these decades. Because this government has two years. In two years, what could be managed. I have some time. I will read you statements from Mr Vazima's geologist, who says that over the period 2005-2014 four hundred five fires were recorded, which burned three thousand seven hundred acres. In fact, it says that the three thousand seven hundred crowns were woodlands and grasslands, lands, that is, which mainly act as natural obstacles to a rain, a flood, etc. He made too many remarks. Another point points out: it is tragic that eighteen actors should be involved in the anti-military planning of a region. It is this legal framework that they have taken care of and created these two parties that have been ruling for so many years. It is what we have emphasised here many times: bureaucracy, pluralism, dazzling services, to which someone is being lost, who wants to start and reach somewhere. In another report by Mr Papanikolaou, who even described the behaviour of services as criminal, etc. Says: "Mandra is a mountainous area with a network of small rivers joining and making a larger torrent, which had been piled over a length of over five hundred meters. On this mess was the city's train station and the supermarket." We're talking about criminal mistakes. And I read them to you, as he has done the statements. "The tragic" says "is that in 1996 we both had two victims in this particular region. What's happened since then? So the responsibilities are that government that's been two years? You see that all these incidents and all these alarms and messages, all that is the tragic situation, and we must at some point manage it, they have a depth of decades and yet no one has taken care of anything to do. And you know that in these decades that passed, as a country we had the economic potential, we also had the funds that brought to incredible sizes from the European Union and with which we could make miracles in all these regions. Yet nothing happened. We have left and developed this unregulated structure so that the public comes to legalise behind the structured surfaces, which clearly closed streams, etc., because the citizens who created these problems did not know. I didn't have the time, but here's a description of these teachers about the situation there in Mandra - I'll tell you quickly - which is really impressive and creepy. It says it starts at the top of the mountains, including the mountain Father, if I remember well, with very great gradients - we talk about the winters - and they come down and come near Mandra the gradient zeros, with the result that the great momentum with which the water goes down, mixes with soil, so that has other effects, raises the special weight of the water, which is gaining a lot of impact, with what we have seen, drifting cars, tearing down fences, tombs, etc. Be careful now, when he arrives in Mandra where the inclination is zero, we have the great diffusion of water now, which is why we have seen this extensive catastrophe. What happened? Nothing. In any case, we should actually be sitting here at some point in the form of committees or deciding on all parties, because it is all about the parties, it is about us all as parliamentarians, and see what we can do on these issues. Ladies and gentlemen, strengthening social protection is essential, and this is what the government's legislative initiative seeks to do. For the second year, social dividends are paid in support of our socially weak fellow citizens and vulnerable households with a one-off social payment in the form of a distribution of social dividends. We have a surplus that we have achieved at 3% of GDP, from 1.75% that we had to have and we manage it for the benefit of all our fellow citizens who need it. So 720 million are being given and shared to 3.4 million citizens who have been most affected by the crisis. The dividend ranges from EUR 250 to EUR 900 according to their family and income criteria. There are refunds to the pensioners who had booked them illegally and we came in 2016 and abolished this bleeding of pensioners. Now we come back again and give retrospectively for all the years that you illegally kept from 2012 and give from 240 to 450 euros as refunds. Finally, we give from the surplus of the Greek people, from the surplus, 360 million to PPC, in order to strengthen the social invoice and no further increases for our vulnerable fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the decision to distribute the social dividend has not been accepted. Economic indicators show that there is recovery and prospects that form the basis for this decision. The climate for the economy, after the third assessment that goes well, is positive. There is already a way out of the memoranda and comitology, and we are moving on to the country's productive reconstruction. We see the first positive samples in contrast to previous governments, which for five years only had negative figures to show. In these unprecedented conditions of economic suffocation and political pressure, our government has emerged. Since the first day we have fought twice, internally against the chaotic situation that New Democracy and the PASOK have delivered and abroad against those who insisted on aggressive austerity. In 2015, the primary surplus target was overcompensated. It was formed in 0.7% versus 0.25% that was the target and in 2016 the intended primary target was overwritten for a second consecutive time. According to the provisional state budget implementation figures, EUR 4.437 billion was set against the EUR 1,983 billion target. There is talk of whether the government is entitled to target part of the surplus budget in order to benefit significantly those who really need it. Of course, it is also a matter for the Qualified Opposition which did not vote for it last year. Of course, this year, after listening to society, it supports it, but of course it tries to create some impressions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In a minute, Mr President. The current government has managed in two years to reduce unemployment for the first time since the start of the crisis. She cut it down by seven points. He took her to 21% of the 28% he received her. Tourism in two years has destroyed a constant record of arrivals. In agriculture we see the government paying back obligations from the previous governments. Until 2008, the present government settled and proceeded to the current obligations, having closed the state's obligations towards farmers until now. They come with support and support programmes for young farmers in production and are very important after the decline in agriculture over the last thirty-five years. From 22% of GDP in 1981 it was limited to 3% in December 2014. So this government is entitled to say that it has started to show light at the end of the tunnel and is entitled to bring such measures to ease society, as a result of our political aiming. First of all, it is society and man as opposed to previous governments, which most of all had numbers, but also failed. The government's main priority was and remains to strengthen and shield social protection, and this is the extraordinary legislative initiative. Before I close, I would like to draw your attention, Mr Ministers, to the people who are hosted. They're not hosted. These are messages taken by the Independent Greeks and we want to take them to you. They're not hosted because they chose it, the need imposed it. Last year they didn't get the allowance. This year, please watch this issue carefully, with particular sensitivity, not to make the same mistake again, because you know that it is not their choice to be hosted by parents or grandparents etc. The need has made them that way. In closing, the Independent Greeks support the distribution of the social dividend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u98	We continue with Mr Mario Georgiadis, a special speaker of the Centroon Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. I honestly wonder whether today's procedure and today's sitting are about Mandra or about the social dividend. Clearly and more importantly, the Mandra issue is more important and perhaps we should take a special meeting on what we are going to do with it. We also look forward to the amendment. It's almost two o'clock. We hope that they will be consistent with the Ministry and bring us early so that we can be placed. You have all upheld Mrs Duru's responsibility. Clearly, since it is currently in the head of local government, it bears considerable responsibility only for the study, which it has not carried out in the drawer. All the previous governments, what have you been doing all these years? Are the arbitrary now built? The stream is now jammed? Is this all the result of the current government? Everyone bears responsibility, gentlemen, and you must all consider this responsibility and not just go out and accuse some of them. These forty years you've all been through, let's not say how. And he's not the Prime Minister who softens the pain after a tragedy. The competent Prime Minister is the one who takes care of it. And so far we haven't met a competent prime minister. And I close with the issue of Mandra, because you have all wasted eight and ten minutes of your speech on this issue, which I agree is important. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the intestines, I would like to show the government's maximum fraud in Article 2. It concerns the interest-free refund to beneficiaries of amounts withheld for the monthly contribution for health care and provides for a refund of those amounts to the pension for the month of December 2017. In particular, it concerns the payment of pensions for the period 1-1/2012 to 30-6 2016 in line with provisions of L.4387/2016. Article 44 of the Act altered the method of calculating the reservation, which since then has been calculated on the basis of the amount of the principal pension paid. In other words, gentlemen of the Government, you are baptizing social dividends on pensioners' retrospective pensioners, who are legally entitled - anyway - to. The money you return to these people has nothing to do with social dividends, but with the return of sickness contributions. So stop mocking the Greek people and playing with their pain! The most important thing, however, is that the draft law, in the way it has been formulated, opens the possibility of being returned ‘cut down’ - in introductory terms - so-called ‘unlawful reservations’ by 30% to 50%. And that's why? As these Memorandum Reservations are deducted from L.4024/2011, 4051/2012 and 4093/2012, there is no reference to the reservations of L.3865/2010, the so-called ‘Loverd Law’, as amended by L.3986/2011. Let us hope that this has not been done deliberately and that it has been done by scrutinising and correcting, because we are preparing an amendment to you and we would like you to take it seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u100	I'll cut you off for a minute, Mr. Georgiadis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "FERTERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty two students and students and three teachers from the 6th General High School Patras. Welcome to the House! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. Guys, welcome. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, can you really tell us what your way of distributing the social dividend differs from the corresponding bonuses given by the previous governments? It's very simple, nothing. It's barely your way of getting more than that. The government itself has identified the three million four hundred thousand of our fellow citizens, who have in fact been victims for nearly three years because of your exclusive achievements, such as the two - and we see - the Memorandums, the salaries of 400 euros and below, the depletion of pensions and unemployment, which have reached the point of total impoverishment. This year also, this year's false social dividend is the last attempt to alleviate the generalised analgesia that dominates the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, following the unprecedented bar of fiscal policies at the expense of the weakest and poor, who pay taxes based on unacceptable evidence and non-existent incomes. Even the increased amount of money that has been announced for distribution is a very small percentage of what you have already done since the bleeding and shrinking of everything - wages, pensions, social allowances, health costs, tax refunds, investment - and all this, of course, without the unpaid debts, which the month after which they come to the level of stratospheres. You may not have the ability to govern this country, you may have loaded us down in the medium and long term obligations that we didn't even imagined would be made by taking over the rulership on your part, you may have no idea how a modern Western economy works, you may have many of you haven't even passed outside the door of a accounting body... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Are they bothering you? It's okay. And some of you haven't even stuck any of them. But one thing we recognize. In propaganda and populism, we take your hat off.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u102	How many badges are you stuck with?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u103	Twenty years of badges I have in the private sector, registered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u104	15 years old?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u105	I'm forty years old, Mr. Antoniou. I might look a little younger. Thank you very much. You have studied the psychology of the average voter from your youth and you know perfectly well to address his instincts. In an impoverished society, whose income is growing, you are creating economically disabled citizens who depend on your tips and your charity, and all that the government is consciously choosing not to go ahead with the extradition of three hundred thousand outstanding pensions. Therefore, any Greek citizen who receives this year's social dividend should consider that you will probably get it back in the next 12 months of 2018, through the low wages of less than 300 euros, which may be of his or her child or grandson, through the pension that he or his father may receive. With this government, all the words have lost their meaning and, in any case, it is unacceptable that you get me drunk in white. This draft law, like the last year's one, is characterized by the best of the cases of exotic fragmentation and the worst of all is - and I must admit it - worthy of repetition of the truly dreadful and timeless slogan "Tsovola, give it all". And who has rushed to applaud the actions of this government? But the former state PPC, with your command. Instead of wasting valuable time drawing up press releases in glorifying the government's fiscal capacity, it would be better to finally find some way of getting the villas of the five hundred square squares out of the social invoice, to reduce with reasonable practices the EUR 2.2 billion they owe it, through the unpaid bills and not assigning to collecting companies the strangler and extortion of its helpless consumers. Since our reason for PPC is to say once again that the government, while spending 360,000,000 euros on the social benefits services of PPC's invoices, demonstratedly and unnecessarily ignores our amendment, costing close to EUR 160,000, for the equation of tritecs with polytecs, which is a fair request in recent years, but we never see it implemented. Now let's go see what a reasonable manager would do in your place. He'd be looking at the cause of the problem. It would find that the wound of the tragic deficits of the past, which caused public debt, was the cost of the state. Huge state expenditures on beloved social groups and guilds. What was the purpose? But, of course, the vote and the consolidation of the client state. What was the solution? The cost cut and the limitation of the state of all of you in here. We are talking about a small and flexible state, with a modern view and a technocratic attitude. This would take the real economy breath, reduce taxes and contributions, reduce the bureaucracy and the labyrinth of the public and finally attract domestic and international investment. Thus the unemployed would find well paid jobs, as competition would be greater and would seek to find the appropriate and most productive partners and employees. In this way the unemployed would not need any of your charity at the end of each year. They'd stand alone on their own. Just things simple and common sense. And I ask you: is that of your interest? The answer is clear and concise: 'No'. And no, it is not your interest and you do not want to have citizens standing on their feet, because they will not be dependent on you. The citizen who works and is well paid for by his work does not need you. And not only does he need your charity, but he's also free to question you. A free citizen standing on his feet votes with his mind rather than with his stomach. You people in here don't like them. Citizens who think freely and are ready to choose the worthy, you do not want to see them either, because very simply, as I said, they do not depend on you. The only weapon you've got to choose from you is to make him hungry and then give him a bonus to ease his pain, as Ali Pasha did to the Yannina who was skinning the world and then gave him two pennies to gold his pill. Ladies and gentlemen, the first paragraph of Article 5 of our country's Constitution states: 'Everyone has the right to freely develop his or her personality and to participate in the country's social, economic and political life'. You, by impoverishing a country with the exhaustive taxation and the reduction of individual income, deprivation of what the Constitution provides for. The poor citizen, who is hungry and in need of your charity, is not free to develop his personality nor is he free to participate in the country's social, economic and political life. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of Mr. I Vice-President of Parliament is ringing.]] His primary concern is nothing but filling his stomach and surviving. He will vote for the one who will ensure a plate of food, a bottle of milk and a strawberry bread. A man who was forced to shut down his business due to debts and an employee working in this business and who was unemployed by the closure will meet in the fund to collect the so-called "social dividend" from the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. And all these people have paid for it with their blood and multiples. So we consider you as accomplices to the previous governments for impoverishment of society. All you've done for decades is to legislate for your own good and not for the good of the citizens and Greece. That is why young people have been alienated from politics. That's why the abstention is close to 50%. That is why many of you can't even move on the road and others are ashamed to say their status. This humiliation takes decades. And now you want to tell us that you must be told 'thank you' about what you are giving them. The new generation deceives you and leaves abroad. And you, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, continue the era of the impasse of stamina and the creation of a new category of citizens, financially disabled in your wills and appetites.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Georgiadis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u107	I shall conclude, Mr President. And because, as I said at first, you are the masters of populism and demagogy, you know how to handle the means of propaganda. And if the government asks us the so-called'super' inspiring question that you are finally used to 'you, that is, do you not want the social groups to be helped?', we say that of course we want to get these non-existent sums, which are actually there because you have retained them. The fixed position of the Central Association, however, is that there should be a stable social policy framework based on real sizes and real studies and that will not depend on the appetites of the rulers and the low level, with childish political election games, which are aimed at nothing but the deception of the people and the vote. We are also waiting for the amendment. I don't know if you've testified on her.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u108	He hasn't been filed. Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u109	We have said 'yes' in principle and in articles. We will be voting in detail tonight. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that, by closing with Mr Theocharis Theocharis, the chief minister, Mr Euklidis Tsakalotos, will be speaking for eight minutes about the part of PPC. Then we shall normally continue with the parliamentary representatives and the colleagues appointed by the parties. Mr. Mavrotas from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. The social dividend bill, which we are discussing today, was to be completed last Thursday. The tragic events in West Attica, however, eventually postponed a few days. So there was indeed the margin for the little postponement that we asked for. It is simply another request for opposition and other facts. The facts are always more convincing. The debate in the committees has shown that the social dividend bill will be passed by all the groups, not because it is well thought out, but because it is even something at a time when citizens are being tested. The fact that this bill is not properly studied is also demonstrated by the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which tells you what we have been telling you on Wednesday, namely that it is a draft 'white cheque' bill, a bill that makes the House decorative and gives authority to the administration to decide. The question is: If everything was ready Wednesday, why didn't they get into the bill? And if it wasn't all ready, why did it come as an emergency and didn't go under normal procedure a week later, so you could hear any ideas? Does it really need a whole bill to give the dividend, or is ministerial decisions enough? The Scientific Committee clearly states that the legislative power which is being put on the table for the ministers must be an essential regulation, which refers to the legislation, which you do not do. Does the bill ultimately have the character of government's pity when everything could be done with ministerial decisions? Did this bill, in the end, need not only as a process of distributing social dividends, but rather as a distribution of communal gain to the government? We will not get carried away from the polarisation that is sought by the government and the Civic Opposition. Communication may need controversy. But society needs compositions. On Wednesday, then, we made some proposals and our main proposal was heard to help those affected by the Western Attica. You can see some other immediate measures such as: Procurement of medicines for those who need and lost them, for example, from the "Third Hospital", since electronic prescription has this information. Rapid recording and assessment of damage. Loans under concise procedures. Subsidies for a first move capital to set up households and businesses in the region back on their feet. Let's go to the rest. It seems from what the Minister said that our proposal to take account of the criteria and the amount of deposits, other than income, is being studied. This will, in our view, help to find the most objectively weak to divide the dividend. But there are other things we have said and left behind. For example, the surcharge for each child should not only be calculated on the income criteria, i.e. who is entitled to the dividend but who also has an increase in the allowance for each family according to the number of children. The luxuriousness, that is, to be rewarded accordingly. As it is formulated and shown by the Prime Minister's announcements - because that is what we have so far in our hands - whether two children have a family or five, it will receive the same allowance, with only difference that the tenant has an increased income cap. In the debate I made a proposal which some people did not understand or intentionally distorted. The proposal refers to an exemption from the fifth dose of ENVY - around EUR 500 million - provided that at least 70% of the last dose for each taxpayer goes to renovation and energy upgrading activities in buildings. Some hasty people said that this will get rid of the richest who have big real estate. Let's take a look at this. First of all, someone who has a property by his parents does not mean that he is rich because the area has increased. Sell it, you say. If he can't keep it, sell it. Yes, sir! In other words, 'neoliberalism' is becoming more neoliberal here than Thatcher! Who would sell it to today? Do you mean to actually kill it? Are these the young weak, whom we must see, who pay great rent for their own home? And attention, we're not saying that they should be given the last dose, but that they should spend 70% of their last dose for renovation and energy upgrade. This will take advantage of 30% of the last dose and 70% - or 350 million euros - will be placed on the market in the professions of construction. You have attempted and said some Members that there are specific NSRFs for this. But are you, gentlemen of the government, satisfied with the absorbance and procedures of the NRP? And why not increase these funds by 350 million euros? So this measure is also refreshing for a portion of our young fellow citizens and refreshing for building, that is, the economy. The social dividend you give today is, moreover, half the story. The other half is its origin, from an overcrowding, that is, which was mainly caused by overcrowding of the middle class. The very wealthy, after all, find their edges and the governments find them with them, as you know very well. The surplus did not come from the fight against tax evasion or smuggling. It came from overtaxation of ordinary balances, the consistent taxpayers of the middle class. In other words, it is essentially not a redistribution of wealth, but a redistribution of misery. This policy is not classic. Unfortunately, she's toxic, because she creates a vicious circle. The middle class, the most creative part of society, is strangled: overtaxation - even if we put on insurance contributions which are, in fact, an extra tax - due due to and not paid. This for the middle class means greater poverty of the lame ones - it's wrong. Thus, an increasing proportion of the population will be driven by the benefits and kindness of the government concerned. Is this the aim, the 'climbling' of society, to gain some political benefits from the misery of the people? I don't think so. But how can this vicious circle break? With a different government policy, with a different approach. We're a country that's been bankrupt anyway. It's got to start producing. And to produce wealth, you need investments. You don't have your own money for investments, you don't have public spending. You need to attract investment, investment in your comparative advantages, in internationally marketable sectors. The investment climate in Greece, however, is unhospitable for the well-known reasons: bureaucracy, overtaxation, speed of administration of justice that does not exist, unclear institutional framework, etc. All of this adds to the demonization of entrepreneurship by SYRIZA - ANEL. But there are, over time, horizontal interests, a establishment that doesn't want to go any further if it's not his. So they put an ideological cloak in their pursuits and resist fingernails and teeth to do nothing. And the governments concerned are monitoring this horizontal "serious alliance" of inertia and maintenance. The same, to a greater extent, because of ideological intolerance, does the current government. This is our state, however. He's cuffing, he's unjustified, he's paying off his debts late and, when he does, he wants us to kiss him with gratitude. Politics, however, means priorities. Priority should therefore be sustainable development and how to develop all three pillars: economic development, social cohesion and respect for the environment. The best mixture of these three criteria is the secret of the success of the successful states. Easy? Oh, no. In each decision these three criteria must be the compass. These three criteria - economic development, social cohesion and respect for the environment - are not homogeneous and we must find those solutions that are harmoniously married, namely, to have satisfactory prices for all three criteria and not just for the rest. For example, our decisions cannot be taken without respect for the environment at all, because nature comes and is avenged. And we saw this happen in the worst way in West Attica, where the current government also emphatically entered the picture of those responsible for a timely crime. Besides, the nearly three years of SYRIZA are not very small. You're not new anymore to make Pontius Pilate. The honeymoon is over. I can't believe the inability. It's probably preoccupied inertia. People's frustrations about which the state looks the other way, because there is a political cost. Licences where they should not be, because there is a political cost. Retrospective legitimisations, because there is a political cost. Journalistic public officials who no one touches them, because there is a political cost. The twenty lives lost, however, at what cost to classify them? In the side-effects? When are we gonna figure it out? Do we prefer decisions on political costs or funerals to public spending? Laws have loopholes, because many draw power from them. Not just today. Long time. Windows serving a customer parasitic system. Gentlemen of the government, you're here saying you're going to change all this. You said 'end of all the rosés', 'end of the clientele', 'end of all this'. If you took a step in that direction, be sure we would applaud you. But you go where others went from. But you have also offered some good services. You've denounced any illusions that we can get out of the crisis with a law and an article, that by pressing a button we'll erase everything, that we'll play the duo and the others will dance. Now the citizens have understood, I hope. There are no muffins and magic. The exit from the crisis is climbing and there is no elevator. We have to go through the stairs. Blowing up, however, has political costs that we have never been willing to bear. Our country, however, needs to be devoured by changes, by reforms. Except in Greece when we talk about changes, about reforms, about responsibilities, everyone shows the other. Nobody shows themselves, nobody looks in the mirror. In conclusion, I would like to say that the distribution of the social dividend is half the story. A nice sequel, as we say in the movies. The other half of the story, the previous episode, the prequel, is the overtaxation of ordinary yokes, the middle class. Instead of giving hope, the government gives benefits. The country, however, needs development rather than a subsidy policy, it needs the systematic growth of the economic pie and not just the redistribution of a stagnant income, a sustainable development that will share prospects and not benefits. I hope that all the political areas, whether on the right, in the centre or on the left, will receive the message, put an end to the polarization and move on to a sustainable solution to the problems so that the country will come to light. That's our duty. Given the responsibilities of the past, supreme and recent, we have to turn to page and see the challenges of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u112	Mr. Theochari, I assume you were kind enough to give your place to Mr. Tsakalotos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u113	The Minister usually tells me. I'd rather listen to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u114	Okay. That is why the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I want to start with the tragedy in Attica. As I have said, within a few minutes we will have the amendment on the first aid to this region. It will not be from the dividend, because obviously what will come now will be a first instalment, and as I told you in committee, anything that concerns the expenditure from the dividend must be spent in 2017. So the other costs will come out of the budget for 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u116	The representative said this morning that the money will now be given.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u117	Yeah, but we won't get any more than the dividend, because the dividend needs to be spent in 2017. So whatever other costs are done, they will be made from the 2018 budget. What comes now will be from the 2017 budget. Mr. Kutsuko, you're right. Along with the amendment, we will also put forward legislative improvements explaining the parameters in the social dividend. As the President said, there is time to study it before the parliamentary representatives speak. These two will be here in a few minutes. I'm starting this conversation with 2014. One of the things I am sad about is that dialogue is not going on by the committee in plenary. All arguments are said again and again and no one is trying to listen to the other. I would like to say that in 2014 you did not close the fifth evaluation. You did not close it - as Mr Koutsoukos said - because it was Mr Tsipras. I explained why you didn't close it. It has nothing to do with Mr. Tsipras. We all know that if you could close the fifth evaluation, you could also find a president and neither Tsipras nor anyone else could stop you. Let me tell you why and answer for that. You didn't close it, because in the summer of 2014 the proposal that came to you at the table was for a preventive credit line. You said then that you couldn't live with it. And why couldn't you live with it? Firstly, because you had not created any reserves to stand on your feet when you came out and, secondly, you had not solved the debt issue. We've learned from your mistakes. That is why we did not accept the May 2015 compromise and went to the referendum. Because this proposal that was there still did not give up stock, there was still no debt debate. He gave a programme for five months, which was almost the same programme, which is for three years, but also for debt. As you have seen, we've been on the market for the second time, and we're going to go out third. We're building up the reserves to get out of the program without this preventive credit line. That is why our strategy is different. We learned from it. We have a plan. That's how we learned how to get a dividend. Why didn't you answer me that in 2014 your dividend was not from over-performance of budgets. I explained to you very kindly and with evidence that at that time you had a EUR 1.5 billion target for 2014 and instead you had EUR 77 million. That's it. You brought the dividend without having the overpaid. In April 2014 - if I'm not mistaken - you brought the KHS for the EUR 450 million and in the end you were not over-returned. You have barely fallen short of your target of 1.5 billion euros. That's why we didn't hear you in April 2017 -- spend the dividend then. We were expecting to see how much over-performance would be, so that we could be budgetaryly right and be able to have a account that inside it is the dividend, within that is the exit to the markets, within that is to keep our goals, within that is to be able to get out of the markets and get out of the program. Now we're going to class policy that has wiped out middle classes, as you say. I'm starting with some thoughts. When you reduced the income by 25%, was that good for middle classes? When for the last thirty, forty years did you create the Paradise Papers framework, was that class love to the middle layers? When you have done nothing about tax evasion in recent years and there have been six to seven percentage points of tax shortfall in relation to Europe in the eight years before the crisis, has this been for the benefit of the middle classes, or have you built a system that was sustainable and 'doesn't matter, could the middle classes win'? Is that what you're telling us? Are you telling us that for thirty years you have developed a system that was stable, had an opinion on the middle classes, on how the agricultural sector will evolve, on how small and medium-sized enterprises are to develop and in 2008 it collapsed? And you're talking about class policy? I accept the criticism. It's a class policy. What we do is class policy. But you haven't answered me, and I want an answer. So, in a country that has lost 25% of income, should we not have given priority to the humanitarian crisis? Is that what you're telling me? That we had to put all the money into development and there would be the trickle down, the one that slowly falls from the rich to the poor, so we'd face poverty? Is that how we'd treat the uninsured people in hospitals? So we'd treat the poor who had no income and no man in the family who works? So don't tell us that we were targeting the middle class. Tell us what you'd do. Wouldn't you be facing the humanitarian crisis? Wasn't there? Wasn't poverty? What would you do? So we did it right and we did it right, and we faced this humanitarian crisis, because the economy and the economy cannot go forward and the economy can live in poverty and not know when the next food will come. And now I come to the question of overtaxation, that this is the main reason why we have the surplus, and that is why we have the dividend. Aren't you and your newspapers talking about falling apart? Didn't you say that in income tax we have a big reduction? What's the matter? Did we have a reduction in income tax compared to what we were expecting? We did. But we had other hits. Not as many as we would like, because from the outset we said we were in a memorandum. Did we hide that we're in a memorandum and that we're trying to find a exit strategy from this memorandum? Did we hide that the IMF always underestimates the return of measures? Of course, but don't hide the over-performance of the FBI, too. Do not hide it as if you do not understand what the Minister of Labour says when he tells you that the people who work have grown and therefore there are more social contributions. Do not forget what Mrs Papanatsiou says about cards and Mr Stournaras - your Mr Stournaras - about how much money credit cards have brought. Don't do that you don't understand that there's a voluntary revelation that will bring about 400 million by the end of the year. This is a class policy based not only on the poor but on the workers and the workers and on a part of the middle class. I never said what all the newspapers said that the ones with 18,000 and 20,000 are the middle class. I said it's the lower part of the middle class. I said it twice and three times. But, in this country, now, with your own newspapers, there are make news. There is no difference in the news from the comment. We're writing whatever it is to make the comment. It's okay if we distort what one Minister said or what the other minister said. It's all to hit the government. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we have a strategy for both workers and we have a strategy for both working women, we have a employment relationship strategy with the upgrading of the EIC, we have a strategy for the middle classes and the tax relief of 5 billion that we have put in the medium term. But we also have a different overall strategy with you, because when we support workers and workers and middle-class, we understand that these people have multiple identities. These people are not only people who take wages and they need to get more, but they are people in production. That is why we have changed the whole of development policy and how the funds of the NRP are shared - to whom and on what criteria - to really catch the small and medium-sized ones. That's why our development conferences went so well because people came to hear who this money is going. They are people who have particular sexuality, and that's why we're going through laws like gender identity. They're people who may have children in prison, and that's why we're going through laws to make prisons human. They are people who have children and they are interested in school and safety in the neighborhood, and that is why there must be a state that can support them. They are people who are ill, and health is important, so we are tabling legislation to improve primary health. There are multiple identities of the people we support. It's also economical, but not just. And in the end we must decide the strategy and confront this strategy. The middle classes, which so burn you, what are they expecting of you? Have you explained to them what you're going to cut from what I said to reduce taxes? More to health or to education? I imagine either in security or in the army, it's not your character. But from somewhere you need to cut. Can we make a controversy about this? Do people have multiple identities, as we say, and therefore health and education and security, real and political participation are important? Can we have a conversation like this? Not a conversation like the one we're having now that we're generally going to be in development. Have you changed your mind about the trickle down, for this strategy that we're going to give it all to entrepreneurship and slowly go to the poor? Is that what you realize is behind the fall of social democracies everywhere? Will you decide who you're going with and who you're leaving? What if the strategy that we're giving it all to the banks and then we're reducing taxes isn't working? We have to have a conversation like that. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] For us the dividend is the beginning of this debate. Perhaps it is the means of this debate. It is neither our basic strategy for the poor nor the first nor the last. It is part of a comprehensive strategy. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I just want a minute, Madam President. And the country needs a comprehensive strategy for people who have these multiple identities, for people who have lost 25% of their income, with a strategy that changes in Europe, who are talking about Göteborg and the social pillar of the European Union, who are hearing for the first time that there must also be social criteria in macroeconomic and not just for the surpluses, for a strategy that will take us out of this country's situation, which we have learned from your own mistakes, which we are learning more every day. And be sure that it is part of a comprehensive response to the crisis and not the answer, as you said. It's not charity, we're not benefactors, we don't think what we're doing is the best we could do, but we don't live in the best of all the worlds, which Dr. Panglos told Voltaire's "Cadid". We're not the best. We have these limitations. In 2015 we said how to work inside and outside these restrictions and we believe that a strategy that can deal with these workers' problems every day is better than saying 'what to do, these are the restrictions, we go home'. We're not going home.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u118	Madam President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u119	Please, I just took over. Let me get this straight. What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u120	Madam President, I want the floor, as I have the right. Colleagues may complain, but what to do. When they become parliamentary representatives, let them not do so. I have the right to ask for the floor after the Minister has been placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u121	You have the right, but we're scheduled. I thought you wanted to make a comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u122	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u123	I have not given you the floor, because we need to see whether you will speak as a parliamentary representative. Others have asked for the floor before you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u124	I have asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative, but later on. I now request an intervention after the Minister's speech. My speech will be held later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u125	As what? Do you want to comment on the speech?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u126	I want to make a position on the Minister's position, as I have the right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u127	Why don't you leave it for your speech? I will give you the floor after one or two speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u128	This is the procedure, Madam President, when the ministers are finished and other ministers will speak and we will close the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u129	Yeah, I know. For the time economy, I say, Mr Loverdo, to talk to the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u130	I'll respect the economy myself. Besides, we have time. We'll go until the meeting's over. I need the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u131	Here, Mr. Loverdos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u132	Look, Minister of Finance, tomorrow we close the state balance sheet and balance sheet for 2015. A year ago we did the same for the year 2014. According to your suggestions, this year we had a 0.3% growth, corrected to 0.7%, than we learned a few weeks ago - and as far as the revenue and expenditure ratio is concerned, we closed with a surplus of 0.2%. These are confirmed. They're your numbers. It wasn't just us. You proposed that this House vote and that they were voted on. So our intervention for the 500 million in April 2014, if I'm not mistaken, had a positive effect on society, without burdening the sizes that we wanted not to impose, so that we could have a positive closure that year. One of the prisoners. Secondly, in relation to what you have said to the committees, you have reiterated today and you are creating the need for new and new positions by yourself. You spoke about the data of the closure of the program at the end of 2014. Since you cannot have suffered a loss of fresh memory, you are here, freshen our memory from the data of the parliamentary dialogue and from the data you have to remember very well that at that time we also proposed the closure of the programme, making a proposal to the lenders to close the programme with additional measures, which did not exceed 1 billion, and which we estimated would be nearing 1.5 billion, if it were. You promised other things. You did what you did. I don't want to repeat it. While this was "run" and the negotiation continued and was tough, the fall of the government, which you caused, broke up. You cannot say now, after so long and with such experience, that if we had proposed Mr Kouvelli, you would have voted for him. Because we were here when any Member of Parliament voted in favour of the President of the Republic and you denounced him as silver, of the most official lips of both partners, namely the Head of SYRIZA and the Chief of Independent Greeks. "Screw" a process and you took the country back. Now you've got it. We hope at least, after you've understood it, your political word will be less bizarre, less insulting and more honest. It's a real hope.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Theocharis, you were scheduled for now, but I will give the floor to Mr. Tsakalotos and then to Mr. Stathakis. He has a good reason to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u134	The circle of rapporteurs has not been closed. It's not right. The Minister made a concession for the Minister. There's no way all the ministers can get in after each other. The agreement was to close the circle of rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u135	He's right. That was the deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u136	I don't know her the deal. The Minister asked me to speak, because there is an urgent need to leave. Mr. Chaakalot, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u137	First, didn't Mr. Loverd reply to me: did you get him target in 2014? You didn't catch him. Secondly, did you have the proposal on the precautionary credit line or did you not have it? Because that's why I blame you, they gave you a credit line, you didn't take it, and then it happened. You did not accept it because you did not have any stocks or a debt agreement, you did not have any strategy. And, unfortunately, for you, you still don't have a strategy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Stathakis, can Mr. Theocharis finally take the lead? Can we handle this? Mr Theocharis, you have the floor, but you have to be precise in twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u139	I'm a special speaker, and I'm normally not breaking the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u140	Now I'm telling you about time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u141	Madam President, because the Chair has now changed, there was a tolerance of two, two and a half minutes to all the special speakers. I'll try not to use it, but I'll beg for a straight line. Ladies and gentlemen, "on the one hand, they grab the bread from the table of millions of people and on the other, they throw away some crumbs to buy their support in the same policy that stole the bread from them and aims to steal them both the table and the chairs and the house. If this is not the absolute political stubbornness, then the words have lost their meaning. It is a deeply immoral act that shows fear in front of the polls." Ladies and gentlemen, a speech extract from the then head of the opposition officer, now Prime Minister Tsipras, in Iannina on 21 March 2014. How do you hear those words in 2017? Do they sound like words with no meaning? It's words with no meaning! They are also corpses of opposition, which have nourished the fires of division. With what result? Minimal. Today that you've become government, you leave to their fate the weak. You leave to their fate the houses of those who are at risk by auction. You leave luck to those who feed on the piles and you don't even see those who are looking for food in the trash cans. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been very concerned about what I wanted to say today. I will not follow Mr. Tsipras' path to the past. Moreover, the subject of the meeting is supposed to be an act of solidarity, an act of humanity, a dividend to our economically weak fellow citizens. I wish it were. In fact, however, it is a move of party impression, on Christmas Eve, with the person of social solidarity who put her on the left-wing government. And I'm really sorry about that. I wish it was a true act of humanity. Saturday I went to Mandra together with colleagues from the Independent Members. Others, of course, would have gone from you. Some may have relatives or friends that have been affected. I will not speak of what I have seen or heard tragically, but I am giving a little parentheses to express, first as a citizen and then as a politician, my gratitude for all those who gave hand to the people of Mandra and the wider region. I'm not gonna name anyone. Such hours are just as important from wherever they come from any body, organization, company, private or even simple neighbor. And what is offered is just as important, whether it is medicines, whether it is food or voluntary work to feed and support these people. In conclusion, I would like to say that, of course, we support the amendment of support for the victims of Mandra, as long as it is done. Why do we read to the "Mamatrist" that even today the wounded, the earthquakes of Kos wait and have not seen one euro of support, of what Mr.Janakopoulou said, with an excess tomb, said they would be given. So I'm coming back to the dividend. They ask me these days, in good faith: "If you were the Prime Minister, wouldn't you give it to me?" And to be honest, my answer is, first of all, neither negative nor positive. It's neutral. Only if it helps the country and its citizens. When was that going to happen? It'd be in two cases. If the money was outside and blooded the economy and society, or if you took money from the most powerful and gave the weakest, then it would be a real help in an hour of testing. For the first one, I don't even have to argue. Not only do you bring money to the country from outside, but from what you're pulling from the country, you keep half as the lenders' pillow and only give half the rest. So do the opposite of what you should do. For the second one now. So let's see where this dividend came from. First case. Why did the budget provide for less growth than the one we finally have? If that were the case, then even more revenue would be welcome. But last year's budget gave 2.7% growth. And this year, they say the information - tomorrow you will be tabling a budget - will say 1.4%, that is, less growth, almost one and a half percentage points. Conclusion One: The dividend didn't come from growth. Second case. Did it come from the fight against tax evasion, as Mr Tsakalots said a moment ago and the government supports it? That would certainly be very pleasant and, in any case, fair, in some way. However, I updated the analysis I had carried out during the summer with the September figures and put it in the Minutes to see exactly how it was calculated. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And unfortunately by around 650m euros, tax evasion increased in the first nine months of 2017 compared to 2016. Secondly, the dividend did not come from the fight against tax evasion. On the contrary. Third case: Did the dividend come from overtaxing the upper payroll and the middle class? That's what New Democracy tells us. I have heard it from the lips of my colleague Mr Mavrotha and others. But if that were the case, I would have accepted it again. It's a redistribution, unorthodox, but it's not redistribution. But I would refer you to the September execution report and you will see that deprivation of tax revenues from the objectives is 650 million. It is therefore a good criticism of overtaxation, but it does not fit everywhere. The overrun didn't come from overtax. On the contrary. Case 4: Did - as you wrote - the dividend come because the investments have stopped, thus mortgageing the much-conscious development that you keep telling us will come? If that were the case, I would still even accept the priority of charity in terms of development. To accept that the country of charity is now needed, not development. I would refer you back to the September bulletin. The "profit" of the frozen investments is 600 million. They didn't even compensate for the tax revenue we lost. Fourth conclusion: Neither has the dividend been drawn as a result of the investment delay. Ladies and gentlemen, let us see with the help of the September General Government bulletin where this famous surplus came from. There has been a much lower revenue, more than 2 billion, over 650 million of the tax evasion I mentioned before and expenditure much lowered. Therefore, the conclusion is that the surplus has come from expenditure. And what expenditure in particular? Payroll? Oh, no. They're growing. Out of the waste? They're still stagnating. Unfortunately, social costs, transfers and social benefits are reduced. Let's see, then, in detail, where the dividend came from. Firstly, from the social solidarity allowance, what people say'minimum guaranteed income', which was launched in March instead of in January, when you entered the budget. Over 100 million of the country's poorest citizens. Secondly, there are 230 million unemployed support programmes from the OAS. Thirdly, the support programme for families in poverty who do not pay the instalments of their housing loan and are likely to lose it from auctions. So you advertised - we were all here - in this House the 100 million that you would give to these people. Nothing has been given and started in the day after tomorrow's auctions, without contempt, without any grief, which would be said by the great Alexander. Fourthly, from other social policy programmes for education, health is about 300 million more. The total is 730 million, involving non-implementation of social policy, to give 720 million dividends. That's where he came from. And so I answer my original question if I would give this dividend. No, ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't. Because it doesn't help the country, it doesn't help citizens. I would not offer for party promotion a dividend that takes from the poorest and the unemployed and gives the less poor. If the OAED in error of its systems did not give an unemployment allowance for a year, would you come here happy and tell me, "we found a billion dollars and divide it"? That's what you do worse. Wouldn't you demand the resignation of the Minister as a minimum sign that he understands what he's done? I wanted to know, how you're asking us to vote on such a proposal. I don't even know how I'd feel if I was a citizen, who was entitled to this dividend, and I knew I was getting money that I needed, than people who are poorer than me. I look at you in the eyes and ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA and the ANELs: How will you vote for this redistribution from the bottom up? I'm sorry I can't find a man in this room an ally against hypocrisy. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying that we have tabled four independent Members of Parliament an amendment which, if you accept it, you can wash out the reproach of this bill. In particular, we propose: Give the 100 million that you took from the CRL back to the poorest citizens of the country. You still have time to change it. Give 220 million on criteria, as you suggest, but on lower incomes for the poorest. Give 150 million in uniforms, who have earned this money in court, since you rightly give 315 million to retired people who have not won any legal gains. So, at least, you will restore a sense of justice. Put the rest of the trustees' money in the budget you'll deposit tomorrow for 2018. Give 250 million, in order to repay the December instalment from all loans of natural persons who are not due, in order to reward once the afflicted perpetual ones, those who saved the banks from new recapitalisations and saved their people's money and deposits from "haircut". Thus the dividend of unfair charity will be at least a dividend of solidarity and reward. Our fellow citizens will see that something small is changing today and perhaps the hope that something bigger will change tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u142	Thank you. As they have asked for the floor at the same time Parliamentary representatives and party chairmen, we will now, as Bureau, make a time management. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, sixty-four students and students and four teachers from the 1st Nafpaktos General School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Stathakis, you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, I intend to do three things. The first is to explain what is being introduced today. The second is to answer some of the questions raised by the Opposition, which is what we are paying for. Is it today? Did we create them or have another past? If they are social dividends or not, I hear that it is money that goes to PPC and they are not social dividends and the third I am going to do is to analyse how we are reforming the current PSOs and the social invoice. I'm starting with the first question. The NGO is the money we pay for the exact production of energy on the islands. It's on average 700 million a year, it's about the whole island complex of the country. There energy generation, as you know, is done with oil, fuel oil, etc. Half are of Crete and half are of the rest of the islands. The second is the social invoice, which currently operates at a level around 70 million. So far all the country's energy consumers have paid only. So this difference in electricity generation in the islands in relation to electricity production in the rest of Greece - I repeat, it is a very big difference - all this is unified within the account, which pays all forms of consumers, households, industries and so on and is attributed to the producer of this energy. In this regard, I would remind you that PPC is the exclusive producer of energy in the islands. So far, all this is produced, paid by consumers. The introduction today by the present government is that, for the first time, part of the cost of YEOs will be paid by the budget. I repeat, the innovation of this article lies in the fact that, for the first time, part of this burden will be borne by the budget. The target is obvious. There is in many European countries a share of the payment of the PSOs from consumers and budgets - in many countries it reaches 50%, as in Spain and others. This sharing is essential for social and other reasons. At this particular juncture, if the budget did not bring it, we are talking about an increase in electricity tariffs of 7% to 10%. I imagine no one in this Chamber is ready to choose this solution for the next few years. Secondly, and I conclude with the introduction to YMOs, the latter are deviated from the islands and hence from the connections between the islands and the fact that the plants producing energy on the islands will gradually be put out of operation by 2023. In Crete, if the 2020 and 2023 programme is implemented, the units will be disconnected and only some will be needed for the stability of the system as soon as it is interconnected with the Peloponnese and Attica. In the Cyclades, the first phase is completed in 2018, so it is a large part of islands, which will be interconnected - and the second phase in 2020. I'm going to the second question, about who we're paying, whether it's a social dividend or not. I present to the House the cumulative deficit of the OHIM. [[At this point, the Minister, George Stathakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In 2012 and every year, is a balance, that is, what consumers paid, reached for the cost of producing energy on the islands? 2012 didn't make it. In fact, there was a deficit of 156 million. In 2013 again, another 148 million were added and in 2014 -- I listened with awe to Mr Koutsouko -- another 92 million were added. The sum is 393 in 2012, 2013 and 2014. Then came this "freak" government of SYRIZA and for various reasons even the YOKOs in 2015 and 2016 were 22 million and less 55 million, that is, plus 33 million. The 360 we are giving today are the deficits of 2012, 2013, 2014, reduced by 30 million from the "fresh" period of SYRIZA. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Question No 2, by Mr Ephremidis Is it a social dividend or not? Because I hear all these stories that we give more than one billion, but only 720 are etc. My answer is quite clear. Clearly it is a social dividend, taking into account what I have just analysed and that the alternative to the repayment of this accumulated debt is an increase in electricity accounts. It is a clear choice of the government, this large accumulated deficit now, and at the same time does not lead to an increase in prices, which would be disproportionate to economic conditions and which would have great social costs. As to whether it is State aid or not, I am certainly rejecting any such debate. The NGOs are a recognised element and are allowed to offer, as the examples I mentioned before, a recognised policy in the countries that have islands, and we should not be concerned about this at all. On the third and final point, what we are changing to the NGO and CoTT between now and 2023 is the assessment of the NGO annually, even though different due to the interconnections, which is the subject of calculations. We are doing this and a part of it will continue to be paid out of the budget in order to avoid any increase in electricity, much more to have a better management capacity for the OHIM, and here I enter the first reform we are preparing. As you know, most of us understood last winter, they are invoiced through a progressive tax procedure, which is characterized by a steep ladder. If you are spending up to 1. 600 KWh, you pay a certain percentage of OHIM. Once you go to 1,601 points to your consumption, the ladder goes up the next step and you pay all the energy in this way. Once you pass 2,001 KWh, we still have a huge staircase. So the way of valuation creates a change for those who last year had a small increase in consumption and changed scale and ladder and saw a disproportionate increase in the NGO. The first basic change we make is that this ladder makes it straight or with a curve, maintaining this progressiveity, so that households with very high consumptions, as they pay for by what a higher electricity price is, the same is true of the YOHs. So the first basic change we're making is to straighten this NGO curve, just to make a fairer valuation and avoid phenomena, as they existed so far. This is a cut-off, coupled with a change in prices, which will affect absolutely two categories of consumers, the large mass of consumers between 1.600 and 2.000 KWh, and particularly the middle class, which is just over 2,000 KWh, i.e. 2,001 to 2,500. In this category, the difference in the valuation of the NGO will be important. So we are moving towards a reduction at the same time in the accounts, which will appear as soon as the new method of valuation of the HR is applied. I close with the social invoice, which we are preparing a very big change, and the ministerial decision is ready. We're doing two basic sections. So far, the social invoice has been about horizontal. Those who were there alone on the basis of income, had about a given discount rate of around 30-35%. Today we are introducing a second category that will have 70% discount and that will be those who have a right to solidarity income. So in the three hundred thousand households that have very low incomes and receive social solidarity income, the current discount and all resulting charges will reach 70%. It is a measure of strong support for the socially weak, those that really require and need support. We want this, we want to give a strong social signal and face one of the phenomena of energy poverty that our society faces. Therefore, a major reform concerns the increase in the discount rate for the social group receiving social solidarity income, from 30%, which is currently a 70% discount. The second change we're making is for those who get the social invoice today. Next to the income criterion we also introduce the asset criterion in order to avoid all cases, which at times we see exist, someone to exploit the social invoice, while his property exceeds the tolerable limits, EUR 150,000 real estate, etc. So the second introduction and change that we're making is that. With these two speeches, the OHIM and the social invoice, I think, we have a very good deal of energy poverty. We are introducing a fairer distribution of social policy costs and, above all, forming a stable framework, now abandoning the practices of previous governments to accumulate deficits and then coming to say that the curve, which was all about to take off, we appeared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u144	I will announce four speakers. Mr Dendias, Parliamentary spokesman, will be the first to speak for ten minutes - you will slowly come to Stepma - then Mr Skourikos and Mr Tasoulus will speak from the speakers and then Mrs Ahtsoglou will speak from the ministers. Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Madam President. I will not abuse time, nor have I any intention of raising tons. Besides, the Minister's speech, Mr. Stathakis, usually happens with a tone that doesn't allow you to answer strongly. I am sorry that we have lost Mr Tsakalotos, who is making some philosophers, who are stirring up the instincts of a parliamentary response, but in any case since he is gone and is not in the Chamber, we will keep this debate with him in the budget. The days they come, the time they come, we'll have the joy of seeing him often. However, with various tons of his Latin colleagues, Mr Balaura, even the tons of the Ministry of Finance, it has not been avoided in this Chamber again in the well-known scenario of the disaster of forty years because of the great calamity, great damage and the loss of human life, for which we have repeatedly expressed our regret in Attica over the past few days. We heard again that the ethnic government, Mr. Stathakis, because that's how you present it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u146	Did I say such a thing?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u147	No, you didn't. You're meaner, you turn it backwards. You call it 'inconvenient', so we can't tell you anything worse. But I have to tell you honestly that you're almost literal. So this government, which is now three years in power and which has been elected by a project for the treatment of all suffering and the treatment of all problems, has no responsibility for anything. For what is happening in the country, it is, of course, over the past forty years and because, of course, no one finds any sign of populism, these forty years have been resurrected in historical memory with various reports by Prime Minister to Andreas Papandreou, etc., depending on what is convenient for the government majority, that is, they are split over the forty years. The government's majority refuses to remember that despite the mistakes that have been made over the last 40 years, the income of the Greeks or if you want GDP has risen several dozen times. This is not recorded in the history of SYRIZA and ANEL. It also does not explain directly - I am now coming to the disaster that took place in Mandra - firstly, what was asked about by our rapporteur, Mr Giannis Vroutzis. Did Civil Protection have indications of weather phenomena? The answer is, of course, even if the government refuses to give it to us. On the basis of these, then, what did the government do to prevent the damage, to prevent the catastrophe? What measures did he take? Who called? How did he act? Or are the government's notifications, or rather the non-notifications, going under the responsibility of the previous forty years? If I am also not deceived in the Attica Region, SYRIZA has completely politicised the elections. Indeed, he triumphantly criticised the election of today's Regional Governor, Ms. Durou. I think you all remember the scenes with Mr. Tsipras, the hugs, the hugs and everything. SYRIZA has directly assumed the political responsibility and political paternity of the present administration in this region. Is it like this or isn't it? Because I've been seeing or feeling a few distances lately. But in addition to that, given the political paternity, I would ask: was it a combination programme that won the elections to address the flood problems in this region or was it not? Was it already known that there is a problem? Did you have taken a clear position during the election campaign on the region that this was one of the first problems that had to be solved? We've been talking for three years. What happened? Did anyone tell us what happened these three years about this problem, which you have chosen yourself, you have named yourself, you have said yourself that you will solve, and you have ignored yourself for three years? Was there or were there not tens of millions named or in any case provided for by European funds for these matters, which were not absorbed? Was there, yes or no? I am told that over EUR 70 million and with national resources together would exceed EUR 90 million. Is it or isn't it? Is there any responsibility, in any case, ladies and gentlemen of the government, or do you have no responsibility? Or should we go back to the responsibilities of 1975, 1976, 1990, call back dead to apologize? Do you have any responsibility for what is going on in this country? Are you completely irresponsible? Are you just to judge, judge and judge? Is it not, in fact, the most dreadful of the facts that a Minister has not resigned, accepting responsibility for something that has happened? What have you done to protect the environment, to come to an understanding? In addition to abolishing the uses of land and coming back to the 1987 Presidential Decree, what have you done to protect the environment? Apart from the ecological disaster in the Saronic for which there was still no responsibility for you. It was obviously the time when the waves were not there, which also did not exist. In any case, I think the time is coming to realize that things have changed a little and that with this policy one can be elected once, but that is where it is going back to home. But what I would like to say to you, by ending, is what my New Democracy MP, Mr Bukouros, has said in my mind, that the joint ministerial decision has been signed in Skopelos on 1-6-2017- and people have not even taken the little money you said to them at that time. So I hope for the victims in Mandra that you don't have the same behavior. Because we have not yet seen the amendment. By the way, the government has committed itself that at 14.00 hours the time will bring the amendment to see it. It's 15.15' time and amendment we haven't seen yet. I now come to the distribution of the social dividend for a while. I heard Mr. Stathakis. If I understood correctly, from what Mr Stathakis said here, with a specialized, of course, theme and a special analysis that we will look at, PPC's finances, Mr Minister, go better, in other words, on your day. It improves the situation. As you described it, your 'fruit' government - and I will not disagree - has improved the situation in PPC. That's what you told us before. If that is true, we sincerely welcome and are ready to congratulate you. But I have a horrible word - since it's fashionable - that's not what it's supposed to be. However, let us come to the issue of dividends. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come here to help you and to vote for this provision. But I'm honest with you. You can tell us what you want us to vote to understand? Because I do not think the Greek Parliament has seen a provision more vague than this. There is supposed to be a provision whereby Parliament should, in the exercise of its legislative initiative, distribute specific resources. The Greek Parliament, you, us, all, not the government, not Mr Stathakis, not the Minister of Finance, not Mrs Ahtsoglou. The Greek Parliament! So listen, the text that we are coming to vote on says: 'In the same ministerial decision the criteria for income are laid down'. The provision here does not have income criteria to whom the aid will be granted. Property criteria. The provision does not have a property criterion. That's missing, too. Residence criteria. That's not what's in it either. Nor does the provision have the categories of beneficiaries. This will be nominated by a ministerial decision. Nor is the basis for the provision within, and this will be laid down by a ministerial decision. Nor is the way in which it has been calculated and this by ministerial decision will be determined. Nor is the exact amount mentioned and this by ministerial decision will be fixed. Nor does the categories of beneficiaries refer to this by ministerial decision. Ladies and gentlemen, honestly, who is the legal father of this provision that you are bringing before the national Parliament? Because if anyone wants to help you, they can't. You have written proudly history chapters in this chapter of Parliament's activity, which will be called 'legislative incoherence'. You don't know what you're bringing us here. Grab a pencil and a paper and write whatever you want and bring it to the Delegation to vote. What are these things? If that's possible! By the end of the meeting can you instantly come back to legislative and legislative seriousness and bring some parameters? Is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, for this provision to be voted on in this way? If a government wanted to manifest its contempt for the legislative process and Parliament more proudly, how else would it, in other words, have to know? Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to end by saying this: I hope that the amendment which will come, concerning the relief of the sufferings in Mandra, but also the improvements that need to be made to the social dividend, will give at least a fig sheet at today's sitting. Otherwise, I have to tell you something, taking what the Minister of Finance said leaving: "We are not going to go home." That's reality. You're not going home. The people will send you home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u148	Thank you. Mr. Darkness has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few words, first of all, about the disaster which hit the people of Western Attica, this many-faced region, which unfortunately - what are we to do? - in previous years, since World War II, it was transformed into the backyard, on the back of the town complex of Athens and Piraeus with an unregulated structure, with industries, shipyards, oil, without design. A poor world was moved that had to work there. Yes, the government with forecasts of weather phenomena did not have time to unleash those streams, which have been blocked with tolerance of governments, with closure of the eyes of governments, with a grid of contractors, jurors who have made some very specific governments since World War II and then to this day. This is where we live. We live in Attica. We know very well what was going on and what was going on. The most important thing, however, is these lives that have been lost, which we are talking about here, nothing will bring them back. And the most important thing is, when this news is over, not to forget them. Usually every twenty years all these disasters occur in the West Attica. In the next 20 years we will have similar phenomena, we should have taken care to restore order with scientists, with people who are dealing with the subject and, indeed, to relieve these forgotten people of Western Attica. So we are talking today about the distribution of the social dividend, the return, that is, of the surplus that has been achieved, by the voluntary revelation, by the over-performance of the EFKA, from public revenues. We think it is an important measure and we thought that there would be satisfaction. Instead, we lived through the fire of a group of anti-population team, leading the Civic Opposition, against the distribution of this dividend. This is where - let's leave politics - one wonders in common sense: 'I heard well? Do we live in the era of incredible irrationality?’ It's a product - it says - heavy taxation. Really? When you poored the country by 25%, about seventy billion, what did you return? You have returned more taxes and more poverty and 27% unemployment. Now he's been to 20%. No one's proud, no one's partying. But it's down to 20% of the 27%. Five hundred thousand fellow citizens found us a job. Yes, the heavy burdens were borne by underprivileged and middle incomes. But why? Because some of the tax evades. Where? The Cayman Islands with offshore, Malta and right and left. It's an international phenomenon. Politicians, their relatives, royal families, multinationals and together several of our compatriots with names and specific relationships have hidden them in order not to pay tax. The orgy of this tax evasion and tax evasion gives rise to tax gaps. Who's covering these gaps? The poor and the middle layers. You know what? Friends and relatives are filming on the lists. And these companies have not now been made. They happened long before the crisis. Why are they spending all this money? Go away to the islands and pay lawyers, pay people economists to advise them? Why don't they let the money out here in the banks be normally taxed and help the national economy? While you justify them, then, the ones who took the money and went out, the pain for the taxpayers took you. We heard about offshore of the wife of the Chief of Police. Why do you want him to get out of here to open offshore there away in the hotel? To stimulate our national economy, I imagine, or to bring investment? Or is "What is legal and moral" a timeless value of your extradition? What did the Vice President say? That in global capitalism while governments increase taxes, some people - unpunished, note - are trying to save the pillaging of their incomes from governments? To conclude, Mr Vice-President: 'This is how the system works'. And he knows very well how the world capitalist system works. We recognize it! To save plunder those who can set up an offshore company away and hide their wealth by avoiding and avoiding tax, let the poor and the middle people be looted. And, at the same time, shedding crocodile tears for taxpayers! That's how the system works. What a hypocrisy! What an insanity! You know, at least, in the theater of irrationality, hypocritical and irrational encounters are serious. The theater of irrationality, ladies and gentlemen, became popular when World War II left behind the uncertainty and precariousness of human life. Instead of having uncertainty and precariousness the payers, the poor and the middlemen, have the people and run to the Caymans to recommend offshore. What did Mr. Moscovisi say? "They who evade are like vampires who avoid light." The Commissioner's graft. All in light, then, with addresses and names. Unfortunately, this uncertainty about the achievements of the offshore riches leads you to the irrationality of refusing to return 1.4 billion, back to those in need, to those for whom the pain has taken you now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u150	Please, Mr. Darkness, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u151	I shall conclude, Madam President, in a minute. It is 720 million tax-free plus 315 million as a return to illegal withholding contributions. Who illegally withdrew these contributions? Samara - Venizelos! And it's 360 million for PPC. You vote this year at least. Last year you had the analgesia not to vote. But you're waking up, because that's how your system works. When the government of Alexis Tsipras returns to those of you who have impoverished 1.4 billion, you protest. But are you all right? What's going on exactly? Apart from absurdity, are you sadists? The social dividend's bothering you. You are disturbed by the relaxation of capital controls, the reduction of unemployment. It disturbs you everything that relieves citizens. This is where your irrationality has no limits. If you want to be serious irrational, I suggest you study the work of Eugene Jonesko "The Baldy singer". It'll do you good. As for the EUR 1 400 000, this will benefit all those who have been poor and have condemned them to tolerance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u152	Please, ladies and gentlemen, for the time being.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u153	Please, Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u154	What do you want, Mr. Balaura?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u155	He said Mr. Kaklamanis when he was presided over because Mr. Koutsoukos said that I could have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u156	Mr. Koutsukos isn't here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u157	What can we do if it's not? We've got to fix it somehow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u158	You're welcome, Mr. Balaura.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u159	Mr. Kaklamanis, because he intervened, he gave me the floor, and when I went to say about Kutsuko...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u160	That's not a process. I am also asking for the floor, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u161	Why, Mr. Brutsi, are you doing this? Ask for the floor after me. That's not right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u162	That's what I'm doing. Talk, Mr Balaura.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u163	Then you're not gonna do a dentist, Mr. Balaura?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u164	No, I won't do a second. He said Mr. Koutsoukos, Madam President, that for the floods in Varda - Varda is a great city in the Prefecture of Elijah - which occurred twice - and in 2015 and 2016 - they still have not taken their money and blamed the government. The responsibility - and Mr Koutsoukos knows very well - lies in the region, because he had to carry out checks, carry out certifications and all that. I followed the matter and when he came to the Ministry of Finance, immediately signed it by Mr Chakalotos. I've published it and Mr. Koutsukos knows it. It's over and out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Tsoulus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u166	But, Madam President, I asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u167	No, Mr. Brutsi, I didn't give you the floor. I have given the floor to Mr. Tasoula. We've got a row here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u168	I also asked for the floor, Madam President. Why do you share?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u169	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u170	Madam President, I have asked for the floor as a party leader. Isn't parliamentary order being observed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u171	Wait. We've announced the show, Mr. Michaloliaco.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u172	When do you want to?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u173	No, we have a schedule here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u174	See what the Rules of Procedure say that the party leader is speaking at any time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u175	You said 15:30.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u176	I said at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u177	That's the way I read it, 15:30. I'll give you the floor right after.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u178	This is not Exarch, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u179	Everyone's asking for the same time, Mr. Michalolico. What can we do? Come and see them. Everybody at 15:00 a.m. is asking. Mrs Ahchioglu had asked for 14.00 hours. Are you going to talk, Mrs. Ahchioglu, or are you going after?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u180	Then, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u181	What am I supposed to do? It must be based on the hours declared, to give the floor. It doesn't mean that because the Chief comes in, it's all over. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come Please, Mr Tasoula, you have the floor. Then Mr. Michalokou will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u182	By listening to the majority Members, zero of the Ministers are excluded, one is impressed on the condition that all that they have said would be controlled under normal conditions. Only they are called under exceptional circumstances and under a period and a huge trial regime for the country. The Prime Minister made a strange journey last week. He's had a strange breakthrough of incidents. Last Monday, 13 years ago, he announced that he was happy - but no longer so - the social dividend. On Tuesday 14th, a trip to Thrace, during the Athenian News Agency, which envied PRAVDA, was accepted in the village of Erasmi, Thrace, by residents who received him with bouquets and great enthusiasm. He forgot about the Athenian Agency and I recommend that he add "alaks of joy, codes and enthusiasm."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u183	You're gonna mess with the Thracians now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u184	On Wednesday, the same Prime Minister - and not even myself - declared the country in a state of national mourning, appeared between obvious and secret in Mandra and prompted it to leave for the overweight countries. Within three days the course of the events you want to create has changed, and within three days, the fool understands - and here I recommend to my colleague instead of Jonesko to read the book of the Gospel Lebase about the "Tours social significance of the leaps in the modern life", it is a shocking book, more shocking than Ionesco - that the country's hen, unfortunately, still holds the reality with a strong hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u185	That stupidity is invincible! I must speak, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u186	Because the current government has not been elected to invoke justifications that these have happened since the Second World War and after the last forty years, or to find refuge in the timelessness of the problems - although now to use livestock expression, in this timelessness, having spent three years in power,'stain' and you - but it has been elected to be better than the previous ones. You were not elected to plead excuses for your failures, but to have achievements. So far, the competition of SYRIZA's ministers and speakers has been invented to justify their failures, mainly invoking the timelessness of the problems and the fact that "you too did the same". First of all, we're not happy or sorry about the dividend. We're voting on the dividend. Last year, we said 'Greats' to avoid humiliating the letter, which you said to strangers 'we will not do it again and we will be in agreement with you', while you described the 2014 dividend as hemorrhaging, which was not only EUR 450 million targeted, but it was also EUR 350 million - I recall - to the social security system due to a 3.9% reduction in insurance contributions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u187	Plus one percent debt you left.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u188	In fact, it was EUR 800 million. This dividend, which you share and which we are voting on, because it is a minimum relief of social classes in need, came not from the growth of the economy, which is, in the expression of the train, the issue but came from a tripartite of hardship. The trio of malaise is overtaxation, seizures and internal posture of payments. When? At a time when the growth of the economy was projected to be 2.7%, it goes below 1.5%, making Greece a negative development surprise across Europe, which disguises its development prospects but disguises them upwards. The distance is therefore growing. This three-fold hardship caused this surplus of revenue, part of which - 1/10 of which - shares in the social strata that have been affected. You have imposed taxes and reductions in wages and pensions, which have so far exceeded 15 billion, to hardly share less than 1/10, whereas in reality the question - I repeat - is the growth of the economy in which you are suffering from a drought, without any lacking in the search for and expelling excuses for your failed policy. So things are completely different from what you say. Firstly, you have not been elected to whine for the last forty years, but to achieve a significant improvement in the lives of the Greeks. And secondly, you were not elected to make the situation worse. You have received Greece at the threshold of the exit from the crisis, you have made her a terrifying "popter" downwards and today justify and try with conversations about allegedly class behavior, to give yourself comfort. The class behavior you have is to maintain a weak support for the government not through achievements but through incitement to envy, by incitement to division and by unwisely trying to confuse the people who are not watching you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u189	Mr. Tasula, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u190	Ladies and gentlemen, we're going through unusual times. You are inferior to the circumstances, not even ordinary, and know that the Greek people, who preferred you because they deposited their complaints and anger to you, are no longer stubborn to watch us - and I do not exclude myself from it - but also to trust us. At least - you will see it from Mr Mitsotakis' speech - we are today claiming the preference of the Greek people and, government, his trust, which you are far from succeeding. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u191	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u192	What do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u193	Just a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u194	Why do you all want to take advantage of everything?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u195	I would have already said what I want. I just want to say that no lunatic admits he's crazy, and no idiot admits he's a blemish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u196	Now what is this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u197	Self-criticism!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u198	Mr. Michaloliacos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u199	Before I refer to today's legislation, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express my warmest condolences to the families of the victims of an irresponsible person in Mandra, Attica, and say, as our speaker has done, that with an illegal and unconstitutional bill, Golden Dawn is the only party in the House to which the funding is being retained. From this funding, therefore, I call on the government to release EUR 1 million and to give it directly to the affected residents of Mandra and Nea Peramos. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Of course, and I shall then refer to the disaster in Mandra. But before that, I would say that the New Democracy often denounces SYRIZA for populism. In this respect, however, as far as this bill is concerned, it closes the eyes to populism and does not dare to say "no" as it did last year, despite the fact that this social dividend that the government says will be shared, it is clear that it comes from a reduction in the necessary public spending and from the wild taxation of the Greek people. It seems that in order to secure your electoral clientele, you are increasingly seeking to pooren the Greek people. Of course, last year you established who will get the social dividend you distributed. This year you do not determine who will take it and say that it will be decided by a joint ministerial decision. But before I mention this, I would say that last year you had the reaction from both the Brussels loan sharks and, in general, from the so-called lenders. This year's not a word. You are the chosen ones of international capital, they have given you the green light and do not deny it by posing as the left and anti-capitalists on a case-by-case basis. Not in the social dividend because the uniforms are first excluded. The government has decided that they are rich in Greece and do not need social care, those with an objective value of more than EUR 180,000. Whoever, in other words, has two, three apartments in Kypsel or in Patisia, which, as you well know, is a useless, damaged property, is not entitled to a social dividend. On the contrary, illegal immigrants are entitled to a social dividend, with a few quarters of insured persons stating a small amount of tax. All of these will receive social dividends while not too many Greeks will be paid. Racism against the Greeks once again at the forefront. I will return to the subject, but previously having the opportunity to be this only public step that I have - because you and the pimps of public life have taken care of, you have ruled out Golden Dawn both from public television and from private channels and from the yellow leafs - I will mention here to hear that on Friday, 10 November in Thessaloniki, we had a day of national shame. The memory of Kemal Ataturk was celebrated in the heart of the refugee Thessaloniki. Thousands of Turks who had come with tourist buses, IX and planes, sang in the center of Thessaloniki the veering "Yasa Mustafa Kemal, Pasha", "hove Mustafa Kemal, live". This was the immersion of the Turkish army for the destruction of Smyrna. All this was done with the blessings of Mr Boutaris, who sees growth in these phenomena. I would like to say that if there is ever a national regime in this country, this monument of resentment, in honor of the slaughterer of the Greeks, will be closed. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] But Mr. Boutaris did not content himself with the hymns at Mustafa Kemal. He took his car and went a few hundred miles norther in Skopje, where he called Skopje "Macedonia". When he accepted the outcry of an important part of the press and the Greek people, he came out and said that for his journey, he was encouraged by Mr Kotzias. We have waited for two whole days, for Mr Kotzias to object to Bhutaris and for him to say that he had no encouragement from him to go to Skopje and call this state - which has anti-Greek erosion plans - with the name which is a knife on the back of our national interests. Mr. Kotzias didn't do anything. Prepare to sell the name "Macedonia". The Golden Dawn is the only party - the newspapers write it - that stands firm in its place. No name for Skopje containing the term "Macedonia" any compromise for our Macedonia. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] While all this happens, I must congratulate the Greek Parliament because it has made a world record. It is the only House in the world that has a party with two parliamentary groups. As you know, the PASOK has a parliamentary group of this Democratic Independence and one of the Pompidou, as well as two state funding. My warm congratulations on this bright achievement, which, in fact, is laughing and crying. In this climate, the ugliness of days would be omission not to denounce the murderous attack in Exarchia - yet another murderous attack - and the oligopoly of the authorities, which once again are not looking for the guilty. In all of this, apart from the feast of lawlessness in Exarchia, in which many of the party that governs our homeland are frequent, we also had the invasion of the famous "Rubian" in the Pentagon. A group of anarcho-communists entered the heart of the Armed Forces in the Pentagon, and left without anything happening. The same had happened when the "Rubic" invaded the parliament. Then the President of Parliament, Mr. Voutsis, had ordered the police to let them go. What right? Let me refer to the Pentagon. They came in undisturbed. They left undisturbed. All the air words that say they've been repulsed. But I would like to ask. It's been three days since. Cameras aren't there at the Pentagon? Has the Pentagon invasion been opened? Oh, no. So, I was wrong when I told Mr. Kontonis, days ago, that SYRIZA was covering criminals? What else do you do with that? It was, of course, symbolic that the invasion of the Pentagon that the hard core of the national state, the Armed Forces, are now vulnerable and can be beaten by the freshwater rebels, these para-state left-wing criminals, which the government protects. In all this, we had the disaster in Mandra from the floods and the fact that no one took responsibility. I want to say this in the House. All political leaders, except me, approached Mandra only to the periphery. One political leader went to Mandra on the very day of the disaster, and he was the Secretary General of the Golden Dawn, I. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Of course, Mrs. Duru made a message report. She sued herself. Unprecedented. Today we heard that the Fortress of Aegaleo, said that the plan for the launch of the two events - which brought about this unprecedented natural disaster and the death of our compatriots - had existed since July 2014. Previously, SYRIZA's previous speakers have said that for the 40 years of the old-party state for the arbitrary state. You're right. But you've been ruling too for three years. You're responsible. Take the news. Twenty dead in Mandra, Ruvikon in Pentagon and no resignation, no resignation of any head of town, a minister, a general, a major. Nothing. Not a single resignation. Pulsation from end to end. Souris: "Everything in this land has been masqueraded by dreams, hopes and purposes, our faces of mushrooms have been inhabited, we do not know what is called shame". In Greece of 2017, he does not know what is called shame. We hope and strive to come another day, the golden dawn of Hellenism, and the irresponsible and the muffins are gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Theocharopoulos has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, we are once again faced with the distortion of reality by the government. In fact, Mr. Tsipras was disturbed by the process of reconstruction in Central Left last week and presented in his dictionary a virtual reality and announced the distribution of the social dividend, one and a half months before his payment. Mr. Tsipras, however, only returns a very little of the money that his government gets from the citizens. How do you distract them? With overtaxation, with cuts in social costs and substantially with tax austerity. In all of this, the Minister of Finance and Mr. Tsipras in his lecture said that this result is not a product of overtaxation, but of combating tax evasion. From where it turns out, no one has understood it. From the various lists you have only been able to get little money. We gave it to you a moment ago. You are effectively overtaxing everyone and everything, to achieve overcrowding and then triumphantly triumphantly to the supposedly combating tax evasion. Last year the government gave a 617 million euro dividend, at the same time cutting pensions in the biennial. This year you are urging a communication new propaganda, saying that you will share EUR 1.4 billion, when the surplus you can give is only EUR 720 million and the other simple obligations of the state. Who do you think you're making fun of this way? Let us remind you that last year you had to give EUR 2 billion more, based on 40%, in line with the primary surplus objective, and you did not give it. And the top one? Desert to a crazy hunting overriding goals of the primary surplus! You who, as a opposition, did not even accept the need for surpluses! Let me remind you of our firm position, which was and is the distribution of part of the primary surplus over the objectives of social, development and investment actions. That was our decisive contribution back then, in 2012-2013, when this clause went through, which you in SYRIZA then swept through. But it was never for us obsessed or the only goal. On the contrary, now you have no other political pursuit. In the next budget of 2018, the only objective, economic and political. If it can be a sustainable economic policy exiting the crisis! Have as the only goal to exaggerate and then share a very small part back. Do you not understand that this is a catastrophic persistent pursuit for far above the already great objective, primary surpluses with the prolongation of excessive austerity? As much as you question it, Mr Ministers, as you show allergy to each independent authority, the report of the Parliament's Budget Office is clear: 'We do not recommend', he says, 'persistence in the objective of overcoming the anticipated primary surpluses, as they choke growth and are mainly based on taxes'. Don't you hear us? Listen to the report from the Bureau of the Parliament or the report from the Scientific Office of the Parliament, as I will tell you next. You are asking us to vote on intentions because we ignore the essential elements of distribution. You said you would bring them to CFDs then, then you said you would bring them to an amendment today, which we have not even seen and have not even discussed in the committees. On this subject, the report of the Parliamentary Scientific Service states that the joint legislature is given the power to transfer competence, "which is essentially" - as it clearly says - "does not seem to be a purely legislative authority under the Constitution". You're not listening to us. Let us at least hear the report from the Scientific Office of the Parliament. But how will you ensure that this year those in real need benefit? And why is that not done in the legislature today? Our memory can only return a few months back in last year's time when they took the social dividend and those who did not need it when the Minister of Finance was forced to send a degrading letter and instead of answering them, he actually came to blame again, as if they were opposition at the moment, the opposition. But also on the back of the New Democracy vote last year, SYRIZA and New Democracy have not understood what the causes of the crisis are and how we will get out of it. Ladies and gentlemen, social policy does not mean extensive and growing poverty and then a state which shares exceptional allowances. It means a strong social protection network. That is why you have nothing to do with social democratic policies. This is why in your first bill of your government last year, you did not contribute at all to overthrowing the trend of the poverty of the Greek society. The country does not need a subsidy policy for the recycling of poverty. Modern services are needed in social policy areas. You went up to power by blaming the generation of 700 euros and creating the generation of 400 euros. With regard to the amount of EUR 315 million to pensioners, your Government simply carries out relevant judicial decisions. Let's not make fun of the citizens. Excessive poverty is not treated with an annual one-off charity, by a social dividend accumulated in the most cruel and antisocial way. You faithfully apply the doctrine "the lower, the better", equilibrium downwards, while increasing inequality. This really is all you could do. But the citizens are turning your back. The massive and enthusiastic turnout of thousands of citizens for the new centre-left institution gave a message for a change of policies, for a new progressive agenda. To avoid any doubt for you, the progressive world yesterday confirmed this message. So make sure today you find out what you will say in a new special communiqué, as you did last week. But know that the recycling of poverty did not save any government. You're treating people like Pavlov in his doggies. But citizens now have knowledge and judgment. That's why they answer you and they'll answer you at the right time, in the right way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u202	Mr. Venizelos has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, the arrest of the policy of overcrowding has caused and damaged the national economy completely comparable to the damage of the tragic first semester of 2015. What's the arrest of the overcrowd? The class policy to which Mr Chakalotos referred earlier? I wish that was all. The arrest of the overcrowd is the absolute cold cynical sacrifice of the prospect of the national economy, the possibility of recovering and recovering the lost territory for the benefit of a pure, raw communication strategy, for the sake of a narrative that we supposedly get from the small and medium-sized ones, from the remains of the middle-class, from its rags and we share the surplus in the lower income layers. I am not going to mention the obvious fact that the surplus comes from overtaxation, from overtaxation, from an indebtedness of insurance contributions, from a freeze in the payment of public debts to the market, from a dramatic cut in the public investment programme, and from this cut there is no flooding, so that I can become somewhat opportune, because of the drama of Mandra, Nea Peramos and Pierrea. The surplus is not only due to the fact that we ultimately have a fall in the capacity of the national economy to move forward, but also to a resignation of our basic national argument that the high targets for primary surplus on a long-term basis are harmful to the national economy. They operate in the realms, anti-developmental, procyclical. They won't let us breathe. We cannot obtain the most infamous financial breathing space. However, this is done on purpose in order for the government to be able in 2017 - and in 2016 - to say that "to have cut up 600 million the first time, 730 million now, to share in the form of a social dividend, i.e. micro-subsidies". Who? In the low incomes, which I have found in a customer-based, statist, populist concept, in layers which have been charged the same, because of the increase in indirect taxes, because they pay VAT and excise duties on fuel, they pay the charges in the poor household basket, but especially because these low layers see their purchasing power continuously falling and see their children or other members of their family unable to obtain the work they want, so it cannot increase family income and it simply becomes a redistribution of misery and lack of prospect. I have spoken for a long time about this state of stagnation, about the state of anaemic growth, about non-liquid growth, without funds and without horizontal investments, with the exception of a few emblematic investments, which do not change the overall picture. This is the choice made by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. It has made the choice to move in real, anti-developmental, to keep the country trapped under conditions such that do not allow national savings to be created. Without national savings, you don't have deposits, you don't have a banking system that works, you don't have liquidity, you don't have the volume of investments that can lead the economy back to normality, normality. Because with the "Greek" or the "Greek" FRYSOS S.A. in Halkidiki you do not solve the problem of the national economy, you solve the problem of the country's international image, you attract some direct foreign investment or expel them, but if the whole mechanism is not moving, if the entire range of the market, the entire range of entrepreneurship, you do not cover the huge investment gap that has been created in the last ten years since 2007. So, what is actually going on is a conscious undermine of the future of the country, not only until 2018 that ends the third programme or the 2022, that is, the period during which we have undertaken a very large primary surplus of 3.5%, but also for the long period until 2060, where we have already undertaken, with Mr Tsipras' signature, a primary surplus of 2.4% on average of GDP for each year, with surveillance of course, which is already provided by the current European Regulation. So, what's going on with the overrun? Because this so-called class option of stagnation, of the actual impact, has been made and because this account of the alleged redistribution of misery thinks the government is paying off, while it is affecting the whole economy, as those who take the dividend have already paid it, but the reduction in their pensions is imminent, that is to say, a further reduction in duty-free, that is, the absolute dead end. And while we now have to have the big debate on what will happen - in view of the end of the programme - after the programme, we go there without any argument on the financial area. Because, after the shock of the first half of 2015, it has become the naughty turn and the government has agreed it all, it has given it all and it has given the theory of overcrowding by saying that "we are much better students than what the school regulation requires." See the 2016 numbers that are given, finished. In 2016 we had an obligation to achieve a primary surplus of 0.5%, which is less than 1 billion. According to the definitive figures from ELSTAT and EUROSTAT, we have achieved a primary surplus of 3.7% of GDP, 3.2% of GDP more, that is, more than six billion from the economy. The six billion have been removed from the growth potential. If six billion were left in the economy, they would have yielded more growth, more incomes, greater national savings, greater liquidity, more investment. How much did they share out of six billion? They shared 600 million. In order for the government to be able to share 600 million social tips, which of course are well shared with some who need it, it has bleeding from the national economy of six billion who no one told her to remove them. They were not asked by the partners. The same is now done at a lower level, because in 2017 the target is 1.75% primary surplus. Say that the surplus is essentially these 730 million shared in the form of allowances. We cannot count on the money that goes to PPC, which is actually a financial arrangement between the public and PPC, so that PPC does not collapse, because there is no PPC policy - nor can we calculate the amounts that go as a legal obligation for the State to pay the pensioners who are wrongly paid for their health contributions, apart from the fact that a levy has been imposed on the EEAS which is much larger and exceeds 1,17 billion and beyond that there is an imminent pension cut, which is the big blow. If this continues, can the target of the primary surplus of 3.5% be achieved in 2018 and there is a surplus to go where and with what target for growth? To achieve the necessary primary surplus of 3.5% in 2018, we must have a growth rate of at least 2.4%. In 2016, we were supposed to be over-excessive with a recession, with 0.2%. In 2017, growth rate significantly decreased compared to the target of 2.7%. To achieve 1.5%, there must be a pace of more than 3.2% of GDP in the second half of the year. In 2018, which is the crucial year of negotiation, for the post-programme, how is it possible to talk about reasonable surpluses or primary surplus only when we are unable to draw, therefore, over-income, why have we purified the real economy? This concept, this pre-cyclical material conception at the expense of the future and at the expense of growth is incomprehensible, because the price paid by the Greek economy to become a so-called generous act alone - "take 600 million a year or 700 million a year" - is disproportionately great. In any case, if it was to share this surplus, let us get this surplus. It's 600 million at one time and 700 million at the other. Why did we have to extract billions that lack growth? Because if we hadn't targeted the surplus of 2016, we would have increased growth by at least 1.5%. The same will be the case with the 2017 data. So we're talking about a mystical, suicidal policy that doesn't lead anywhere. It just leads to a reproduction of customer perceptions with the thought...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u204	If you want, you'll be done, Mr. Venizelo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u205	I shall conclude, Madam President. On the grounds that tax and insurance overcharges concern our political opponents, those social forces, those layers that do not vote for us as SYRIZA or as SYRIZA - ANEL. Therefore, we can make a policy that is aimed at social groups that are our opponents on the presumption that we can afford political extractive tips to others, whom we take as naive, because they themselves have paid them and pay them extremely expensively. He says, Mr. Tsakalotos - and I end with this: "But you also shared in 2014 from the primary surplus of 2013, without achieving overcrowding." But we didn't want to achieve overcrowding. We also wanted to have a smaller primary surplus target. We wanted the economy to get a positive pace. The theory of overcrowding is a suicidal, destructive theory, which undermines the future of the country. He says Mr. Tsakalotos: “You did not close the fifth rating at the end of 2014, because you did not want to take the weight of the preventive credit line.” But we went and asked for the preventive credit line and voted unanimously on the Eurogroup in November 2014, because the country needed and now needs a preventive credit line so that it doesn't come out against the thorns. I personally had come out and told all tons that we were going from the memorandum to the preventive credit line that is a different situation. As I had come out and published in February 2015 the mail Hardouvelis, saying, "Take it and keep it, to see it as a playground when Mr. Tsipras' memorandum comes", oper and became forfeited. And now they won't have, he says, a preventive credit line, because they want to record the clean exit, supposedly. What clean exit? At what spot cost? With what impact on the sustainability of the debt? Also, one more thing that is more important. There is the hybrid preventive credit line, to which Mr Tsakalots refers in depth. He says: ‘We will not have a preventive credit line for the European partners in the ESM. We will have a national preventive line, a national reserve." Why is that? Because they have given us since now to pay the cost of preventing possible market reactions after August 2018, as they put us with the signature of Mr Tsipras from July 2015, and then we, the Greek people from taxation, debt interventions, debt reductions, changes in parameters, change in floating interest rates at constant, for example
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u206	You're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u207	While by 2014 with the large intervention of 2012, the costs were paid and paid by the partners. That's why the debt was reduced. Now, the country itself is paying for the interventions. We are talking about an absolute absence of planning and an absolute inability to negotiate both on the budget and on the financial and macroeconomic level. The theory of overcrowding is not to celebrate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, that is no longer the case. You've been talking for seventeen minutes. Everyone has a lot to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u209	It is a tragedy experienced by Greek society and the economy. This drama is coming to confirm the government in the House today. Our vote concerns the treatment of vulnerable groups, not the acceptance of the theories and supposedly political planning of the government, which eats the flesh of the country and undermines its future.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u210	The Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Ephi Ahtsoglou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u211	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law on the distribution of the social dividend by over-performance of the economy. This year, as it was last year, the Greek Government can, thanks to the excessive achievement of the agreed budget targets, allocate a social dividend to support our weakest fellow citizens totalling EUR 1.4 billion, which includes, in addition to the social dividend of EUR 720 million and the restoration of a series of injustices that have taken place in the previous period, such as the payment of the illegally withheld health contributions to pensioners in 2012-2016. The first thing I would like to clarify is that there is a great deal of talk about the origin of the surplus, that it is very important to see exactly where this over-performance is. I could quote the figures here, but it is a public document, it is the budget, it is posted, and one can see exactly where this over-performance is coming from. Because we are hearing too many charges of overtaxation, hypocritical to a large extent, but the data is very specific and one can see them through the preliminary draft budget submitted to Parliament. The most important part of the surplus is from the insurance funds, namely, from the increase in the revenues of the single social security institution, from the increase in the revenues from the contributions of the employees of the single social security institution. This is so important - and I stress it - for one fundamental reason. This increase is justified solely on the basis of the growth in employment and the decline in unemployment. There is no other element here, neither in terms of exhaustive taxation nor in terms of exhaustive taxation. The increase in employment and the reduction in unemployment are the ones that have led to the increase in the income of the single social security institution, the increase in earnings from employees. I would remind you that the recent insurance reform has not brought about any change in the rates of employees' contributions. The rates of employee contributions are the ones they have always been. It didn't change anything. The fact that earnings from employee contributions are increasing is a net reflection of the growth in employment and of the decline in unemployment. There's no other evidence. Second point, also in the revenues of the Single Social Security Agency. It is important to increase revenues in relation to budgets, because there is an increase in revenues from the settlement of liabilities, in particular, because we have a very good functioning of the CRL, the Insurance Centre. Its way of working has helped significantly to combat tax evasion, which enables us to have increased revenues by about 200 million compared to what we had originally budgetd. So three hundred million - I say with figures to see that they are not narratives or philosophies of what I am doing, they are facts - a positive deviation from the increase in earnings from wage earners due to the reduction of unemployment, as I said before, and 200 million positive deviations from the arrangements for debts and the fight against tax evasion. That's the first part. The second part is the reduction in pension costs. Quickly to underline - in order not to rush anyone to say that this reduction in pension expenditure is essentially pensions that are not paid, it is an indirect cessation of payments, as I have heard, and so on - that the reduction in pension expenditure, which leads, as you see, to this surplus, is solely the result of an intensive liquidation of the register of outstanding pension applications. We did an intensive job within the Single Social Security Agency to see what it really is, which seems to be outstanding pensions, and many of them proved to be unfinished pensions. This clearing of the register of outstandings, together with the quickest awarding of pensions which leads to lower cost of retrospectives, is what has helped finally to revise pension expenditure downwards and give us this surplus, for the distribution of which we are discussing today. Therefore, this picture of the budget, the increase in revenue from the reduction of unemployment and the abolition of undeclared work and the reduction of pension expenditure by the fact that we have set order in the pension scheme, the outstanding pension benefits, leads to the result of the surplus that we are debating today. I would like to clarify something for those who are not trustworthy, perhaps, or those who may question what I am saying about the reduction in pension costs. If the reduction in pension expenditure was not due to this liquidation I am telling you, but it was a matter of not paying pensions, then it could only be seen in the 2018 budget. This budgetary burden would be borne in 2018. If you had to pay it, and you didn't pay it, it would appear in the 2018 budget. That's not what's going on. This is a pure case of liquidation of a register that has not been cleared for many years and has burdened the country's pension costs, with very bad consequences in relation to the picture of our insurance costs. At the same time, the voluntary disclosure of incomes, the fight against smuggling and, in any case, the targeted action by this government to reduce undeclared and alleged work have led to this increase in revenue that now allows us to distribute the surplus. No other debate on exhaustive taxation does stand in figures which, as I said before, appear in the preliminary draft budget. But there is something else we should also discuss, because I have listened very carefully to Mr Venizelos. Over-performance is directly linked - and I think it makes sense to what I am saying, it is not a matter of a different visa policy - and the lowest primary surpluses that this government has negotiated and agreed, 0.5% for 2016 and 1.75% for 2017. It gives me particular impression to hear Mr Venizelos speak for more than ten minutes about the 'current conception' of the primary surpluses, about the 'great' primary surpluses that this government has agreed to, and to which the country commits the country on a substantiated path, constantly. In 2011, with the signature of Mr Venizelos, in the mid-term of 2012-2015, in the explanatory statement, I quote: ‘The government has been aiming to create, since 2014, primary surpluses of 6% of GDP’. These are the ‘high primary surpluses’ agreed by this government. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Second Financial Adjustment Programme. What have Mr Samaras and Venizelos finally signed? They signed a primary surplus of 4.5% for 2016 and a primary surplus of 4.2% for 2017. I would remind you that this government signed up - and it brought the result it signed, unlike those who were committed and could never bring the results for which it was committed-0.5% for 2016 and 1.75% for 2017. The removals are obvious about what the high primary surpluses are and where the conception of material in this whole story is. It is clear that without the change in the objectives that this government has achieved and signed a much more violent budget adjustment, we would have had and there would be no possibility at the moment to discuss overcompensation and social dividends. But to go through something else Mr. Venizelos said, and we can't leave it like that. It says that we are coming to the debate on exiting the committee's programme without any argument, because we have not invested, we have not taken care to create a savings. There's no greater inaccuracy than her. The surplus and surplus that we are discussing at the moment is distributed after a pillow reserve has been secured, which is also shown in the preliminary draft budget in Parliament. It is precisely because of the shape of this reserve, which you will see in the Eurogroup's decision in June 2017 - it also appears in the preliminary draft budget in relation to 2018 - we are now being given the opportunity - and I think it also appears from the lips of the European partners and the other partners involved in the programme - to discuss with faith a clear exit from the programme in August 2018. I told you that an important part of the increase in revenue stems from the reduction in unemployment and the abolition of undeclared work. I cannot help talking about what Mr Bruts said during the committee debate. He said about it that we are doing nothing about undeclared and undeclared work, that all that had been done by the previous government, and now we are just getting the fruits from his own effort, reading again figures and elements that suit him. He said undeclared work was reduced over his day from 40% to 13%. If we want to talk seriously at percentage rates, I think we should look at the percentages every year, namely how undeclared work was at one year and how much the other, rather than comparing one another. In 2013 undeclared work was at 31%. In 2014 it was at 19.1%. So the correct wording is that you have broken down the labour market. Undeclared work exceeded 30% and then you started compiling it and ended up close to 20%. Where have we brought her right now? At the end of 2016 the percentage is 13%. In two years, then, we have achieved this fall, from 20% to 13%. The 2017 figures have not yet been announced, because it has not been closed in 2017. As soon as it closes, we'll see the figures in 2017. But we have in our hands the results of the pilot checks carried out for the first time in Attica with the mixed bodies such as - I have told you many times - the Labour Inspectorate, the Economic Crime Corps, the Economic Police and the auditing bodies of the EPC, which are now showing us that the sum of both partially undeclared and fully undeclared work is now 10%. I think it is, if anything, challenging by a Minister on the days of which the Labour Inspectorate lost two hundred or nine organic posts, abolished Mr Brutsis two hundred organic posts in the Labour Inspectorate - in a recent debate on a law in this House said that he does not remember that it did - abolish the Legal Support Department and the Information Systems Department of the Labour Inspectorate - tell me a European country in which a control mechanism is working without a Legal Support Department - currently moves us to the finger on what we are doing on labour market controls. With controls on the labour market, we do what we owe to workers. And I think they're experiencing it in their everyday lives. I also think that the fines to the large employers prove this rather than that the employers decided with the SYRIZA Government to be inconsistent while they were particularly consistent before. To say two things about the social dividend. There has been a criticism - I am now talking about the 720 million to be distributed to the vulnerable social groups - that the legislation that you have before you is extremely vague and does not define income or assets, etc. the criteria under which this allowance will be granted. From a constitutional point of view, I don't think it's vague. We might argue, but maybe it doesn't matter. Because it is clear to demarcation and a joint ministerial decision to set the criteria. However, because we are listening to the criticism that is being made and want to be consistent, we are setting up a legislative improvement in the provision, which includes the criteria for payment of the allowance, the maximum income criteria, the criteria for both real estate and for movable property, the presumptions and the criterion of residence, which was not laid down in the provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u212	Madam Minister, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u213	For example, for four-member families, the upper income limit is 18 000 euros and for larger families it is all 27 000 euros. A couple with income from 9,000 euros to 13,500 euros will receive 375 euros. A couple with a child and an income from 5,250 euros to 10,500 euros will receive 612 euros etc. You can also see them in detail in the legislative improvement submitted. However, the acceptable criticism also has its limits. The criticism that has been made was that the legislative provision is completely vague and Mr Tedias was shouting that this thing we do is unacceptable, because we do not allow this House to see what is legislating. In 2014, when you gave the dividend, the legislative provision was as follows: ‘EUR 450 million is available from the surplus to citizens with low family and annual income on the basis of income and assets criteria to be established by a joint ministerial decision’. That was the arrangement you brought in 2014. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] However, because we want to listen to parliamentary criticism, we are making the legislative improvement that you want to be specific. With regard to the reimbursement of the pensioners' contributions, because here too much has been said, under Law 4024/2011, the retention of the health contributions to pensioners on the basis of not the actual sums paid, the actual sums received for their pensions, but on the basis of fictitious amounts, i.e. amounts that would have been in place if the Memorandum cuts had not been implemented. This took effect in November 2011. With the 2016 Law we corrected this injustice and said that now withholding will take place in the actual pension payments. Therefore, from June 2016 onwards, the retention takes place on the amount to be recovered. Today we come and say that injustice may have been corrected, but because money is owed to pensioners for that period, from November 2011 to June 2016, we are returning these amounts to the pensioners. No court ruling has been given on this. It is political that this government's decision to correct the injustice of its surplus. Clearly political decision to correct an injustice caused by previous governments. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] There is an opinion from the Citizens' Counselor saying that these amounts should be repaid - the opinion had come out in 2013 - which the previous government did not think should be respected. We therefore restore this injustice and return the sums on the basis of a political decision that we have taken. Finally, the Minister for Finance has said so and I will repeat it: this government is implementing a suffocating budgetary adjustment programme. We don't look at situations, we're not talking about success story. We are in a programme of very strict budgetary supervision. [[Noise in the Chamber]] We have two goals. The first goal is to be able to take out the country... Madam President, there is a noise.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Bourras claims there's a court ruling.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u215	If you find her, bring her here to the Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u216	I'm looking to see. I'm asking if I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u217	I'm sorry, Minister. Keep going, but you have to finish, because you've been out of time a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u218	The government implements a strict budgetary adjustment programme with two objectives: first, to get the country out of the committee's programme in August 2018, and now we are closer than ever, I think, to this exit. And the time route is now short, but the preconditions are such that we are able to make this relative optimism possible. However, the second objective is to shape the conditions so that the development we will know is not the one that has led us to the crisis. This is what we are doing at the development conferences that are in place and which, for the first time, local society is talking to the government and sets out the conditions under which this development could be different and the benefits that are generated are distributed to those producing it. That is exactly what happened in Gothenburg, at the summit which has been held, which many have made good use of. However, its value is very great, because there for the first time, and the Prime Minister of the country also pressed the leaders of the rest of the states to have clear and quantified commitments in relation to the social objectives that this Europe should finally start implementing. We have said that we will exhaust all possibilities, despite the difficult circumstances and the limited tools we have, every margin, every performance of the Greek economy in order to improve the life and everyday life of the weak social strata. And I think that what we are doing today in this House is a practical proof of our commitment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u219	The European Parliamentary Representative for the Golden Dawn now has the floor. Mr. Poppa, you have half the year, five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u220	Tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u221	Your president has been raped.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u222	Last Thursday, the left Prime Minister as a new Pontius Pilate washed his hands on the mudwaters of Mandra. He simply preached national mourning in order to renounce his responsibilities, and made a ten-minute turbulence, he literally went to the surroundings! - Mandra, without even getting into town, even for the photos, he turned his back on West Attica's problems and went on a trip to Sweden. This theory - as has been said theory - prescribes - and remember this - the end of the conflict. We, as has been pointed out before, and we alone have been there since the first moment. We Greek nationalists and Nikos Michaloliakos, who dared what no other political leader dared! None of you and the Chiefs of the Memorandum Arc dared to lull his laurels into the muds of the Mandra's work area. To you all of the co-government, which you speak of extreme weather phenomena, I will tell you that there are no extreme weather phenomena, but extreme criminal responsibilities. Some people are to blame and some have to pay for it. It is not enough, Mr Tsipras, to have national mourning. There would probably be a balance - without, of course, bringing back the fallen, the twenty dead - with a special court. In today's left-wing recital, the so-called'social dividend'. First of all, the term'social dividend' is unfortunate and provocative. A dividend, ladies and gentlemen of the coup d'état, Prime Minister, is taken by the shareholders of companies that are not persecuted when the managers and directors of the companies throw the company into the economic catastrophe. All of you - the previous ones, but also the current ones - are in every way persecuting the shareholders of this state, that is, the citizens - who are persecuting them financially, legally and morally - and leaving to the unavoidable of those who managed and ran the company, that is, the bankrupt state. The Prime Minister said that after yesterday's announcement, a clear road is opened before us for the definitive exit from the memoranda and for the exit to the markets in one year. It's like we heard exactly Samara. If we put Samara's voice on Tsipra's plan, it wouldn't change anything. The Prime Minister and his Government are forcing themselves to be "new". I fear, however, that in the three years that you have been ruling you have grown geometrically and you are now clearly identified with the old. Why is this statement by the Prime Minister to what differs from those of Papadima, Venizelos, Samaras, and what is, after all, different from the famous statement made by the undocumented Jeffrey Papandreou "Leftas"? Everyone got out of the crisis, out of the market in a year. The terrible thing is, Mr. Tsipras and last year. He talked about a fair redistribution of wealth. What fair redistribution of wealth, gentlemen of left coexistence? He said we're going to win the social state again. What are you doing? You take them from the poor, to give them to your choices, to your poor people, to the poor as defined in the joint ministerial decision. You do, however, even worse: You are a success, that is, the decisions of Greek justice. In other words, the money that some social groups deserve, certain groups of citizens, you baptize'social dividends' and 'fair redistribution'. Is it fair to redistribute, gentlemen, electronic auctions, to seize the first residence of the poor Greeks? Is that a fair redistribution of wealth? Is it a social state? Why should we not forget that for your days the first home of the Greeks is being auctioned. On your days! You, the so-called protectors of the people! I will close, saying, that we stand against your hypocrisy. We can say, 'No, stop mocking the Greek people'. When will you make fun of him in good cooperation, right and left together? We, the nationalists of the Golden Dawn, MPs and executives, regard ourselves as - and we are both inside and outside the House - as a folk fighter. We are political fighters, who really fight for bread, education and freedom. Bread for all Greeks, social justice, not a single euro in loan sharks, national production, finally, to stand on our feet, education national, Greek and Orthodox, freedom against internationalists, Zionists, adolescents, against the European Union, against NATO. We are right, God, the poor Greek and the poor Greek woman on our side. That's why you're shaking! That's why we're gonna win!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u223	Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's sitting on such a serious bill, which concerns the restoration, to a large extent, of the Greek state's obligation to the Greek people over the years of the crisis, unfortunately, is shattered by the tragedy in Western Attica. For this reason, I would say better that all of us need to show low tons, seriousness, modesty and not micro-policy with the only aim of opposition to the government. The issues remain. What is urgent is to find measures in the short term to restore life in the affected areas. Of course, the people who got lost don't come back. There must also be direct compensation, which has been mentioned today by the government. We must not forget the Western Attica when the House is over and over for a couple of weeks. The Greek state, society, the political system, the MPs, the parties, must conclude on some things: that we will not be subject to micro-participation, but also to the great interests of small and medium-sized enterprises, we will not justify arbitraryness from now on and we will all build a modern, European state, taking into account the planning of the city and international scientific data. A few self-criticism, of course, is good to be done by some, because we must not forget that twenty years in the regions, in the prefectures, in the provinces, in the alternates were the two parties of the New Democracy and PASOK. Similarly, ten six years in this town where the great disaster took place. I'm saying this, coming back to the need for a little modesty and a few low tons. We are, however, coming to this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Brutsi, say: 'We are not all the same'. I'll agree with him. Of course, we are not the same because we are not the ones who have reduced the country's GDP by 25% in four years, we are not the ones who have raised unemployment to one and a half million, nor are we those who, through our policies and actions, put our Greek people and our country on the memorial path. The government firmly committed to the Greek people to pull the country out of the regime of the Memorandums and the Committee in August 2018, is moving steadily, implementing a difficult program with a glimpse of society, to the Greek people who lifted the main burden of the crisis, without being blamed for the policies pursued. The political forces, for many decades in our country, have been acting permanently in favour of the interests of the few and chosen and at the expense of the many. However, despite the difficult budgetary circumstances, under the full committee, our country is gradually recovering. That's not just the numbers and the evidence. I am thinking also of increasing investments - small, but there is - increased exports, industrial production, etc. This is also apparent from the global recognition of our country, from the behaviour of the markets, from the exit of markets and the stabilisation of the economy. For the first time, however, unemployment fell below a million. We must not forget that. This and many others are disturbing those who have believed and said that the second assessment will not be closed, and they have not closed the fifth evaluation themselves. In fact, they said about the course of the budget, those who were used to review it along the way. But now, on the basis of the budget, things are happening properly. In fact, the embarrassment of the New Democracy and PASOK is great. It is a fact, of course, on the other hand, that the Greek people have lifted a great deal of crisis. But when the country's economic elite finds a refuge for tax evasion and tax exemption on the paradise islands, its politicians are swinging the finger and abducting the government for charges in the middle class, they are talking about pension cuts. At the same time, they are not talking about reducing taxation on business profits. But for the simple citizen, what do they say? Mr Mitsotakis himself gave it to the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki. He said: "I can't imagine society without inequality." That's what I think he's saying. When they come today and talk about a lesser state, about privatization of education and health, I come and say: Firefighters, police officers, ministries, who are now trying to relieve the state as far as possible. They're the public, they're the civil servants. Whatever changes are needed, improvement etc., this is another issue and we are trying to do it. But when we keep in mind public, we have to keep an eye on this. Ladies and gentlemen, for the second year the government has a budget which has been overrun for our fellow citizens. This is an obligation of the state. It's neither pocket money nor tips, as we heard here. And that's the result of policies to combat tax evasion, plastic money, on the lists. They are asking here representatives of the Democratic Association: What have you received? I will answer: The elbows that were in the drawers have come and are now being investigated. That only shows a difference. Nor can I say the very important thing about PPC. I would like to say that the 360 million, involving services of general interest - the Minister said before, I will not repeat - are very important because the Greek people will not suffer any further increases in electricity. Measures in particular concerning the social invoice were also announced.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u225	Mrs. Kafantaris, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u226	In conclusion, I would like to say that Mr Venizelos is not saddened, who we heard just now about PPC. I will tell him that PPC and in the new conditions of the liberalisation of electricity and energy at pan-European level will still be an important pillar of our country's energy policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u227	The parliamentary representative of the Democratic Association, Mr. Loverdos, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u228	Ladies and gentlemen, our people, who are wise, teaches that it is difficult to retire from gambling, smoking and teen abuse. I would add demagogy and populism. In this Chamber, Madam President, but also in many other audiences, we have a Prime Minister - the current Prime Minister - but also other leading SYRIZA officials, who stood a bile and a pharmacopoeia when it was decided to distribute the dividend from the Samara - Venizelos government. When that government had distributed a surplus of EUR 500 million to uniforms and low pensioners, Mr. Tsipras was then placed - admittedly, too constructively - saying: "We consider an act of shame, an act of humiliation, an act of humiliation of every citizen of this country, on the one hand, to grab the bread from the table of millions of people and, on the other, to throw away some crumbs to buy, as they imagine, their support in politics, which the bread stole and aims to steal from them both the table and the chairs and the house. If that is not the absolute political stubbornness..." - he said - "...the words have lost their meaning. This is an act of deep immorality, showing fear in front of the polls." And he continued with the same real thinking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u229	But we also heard them from Mr Theocharis, Mr Loverdos. Take advantage of the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u230	I have more to add, Madam President. He asked the following question, referring to the then government: "How does this disgust throw away the ignorance and contempt on the faces of the Greeks, thus attempting to remove the latter, which they have left, their dignity?" I found, on the occasion of this debate, something I was looking for for a long time, and I did not find, ladies and gentlemen, when the then Chief of Officerial Opposition and Prime Minister at Pinochet in Chile, with a tweet of his own: "By blood, tears and plundering, they will achieve surpluses, like what Ceaucescu has achieved in Romania and Pinochet in Chile." This was on April 28, 2013. Here is a truly creative and constructive attitude of the leader of a political party. And the question to the majority MPs, SYRIZA and ANEL, who is a real question: Ladies and Gentlemen of the majority, when you hear these, are you feeling well in your clothes? Are you feeling well inside the parties to which you belong? Do you feel all right with your just yesterday's self, or will you confirm once again what I have said many times 'pack' and in front of the House, that you have exceeded every demagoguery, populism and political fallout limit, since you are taking and triumphing exactly what you have renounced, condemned and demonize? However, I must mention some positive aspects, some of your contributions to the entire country's course: you gave the opportunity and the opportunity for the citizen to compare yesterday with today and on the basis of this comparison to make his choice for tomorrow. We, Madam President, and in 2014 as a government, had voted and distributed this 500 million dividend, and in 2016 we did the same thing, despite the fact that you had been smuggling, which you paid with the humiliation of both the current and the then Minister of Finance, who asked for apologies, but we did so in 2017 as well. I have had the opportunity to say this in the Chamber since last week: what can create a small difference between people who suffer, find us positive, but we have a measure and a station whether it is 2014, where we were government, whether it is 2016 and 2017, where we are opposition. We are listening to the Prime Minister today and to his members making fire words against the tax havens of the economic elites, in favour of the interests of the weaker social strata. And one wonders, what has now been left over from hypocrisy, mocking and populism. Because people know very well now, what the measures you have imposed are. And the previous Minister of Labour knows very well about 2017 what the measures have been imposed by its Government and also knows even better what measures are for 2018, which she had the initiative to impose on the commanders in her Ministry. It is you who have cut and abolished the EKT, which you have cut and reduced the main and supplementary pensions and which you have imposed on the free professionals what you have imposed on taxes and social security contributions. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] And for the government partner, for you, Mr. Comrade, who are here, what happened to that first undertaking of yours, that it would be the first action of the Minister of National Defence to return to the mandates of the amount owed to them by the Greek State, because of the decision of the Council of State? We, the first part we gave it in time, not just. But you, with these grand promises, what have you done after three years? And since I am referring to this Minister, I would like to ask you a question in the Bureau: when a Member is in possession of the classified document and does not want to leak and does not want to violate the confidentiality of the document concerning the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of National Defence, what does he do? I propose, ladies and gentlemen, because there are certain limits which the government must not exceed, that we table these documents, as with the committees of inquiry, in the Bureau of Parliament and go to room 162 so that the three hundred Members of Parliament can see them! Let's see about the history of Saudi Arabia, "how much waste the sack is getting" and who's telling the truth. So let me return to the subject of today's debate. There was a mention, at the initiative of the Minister of Finance, but also of the Minister of Labour, in the recent past. The Minister for Labour - I do not understand the reason, the reason, the motive - I do not know why - it is impossible, it is lack of knowledge, it is a lack of training for the latter that the Hellenic Republic has passed? - but he made references to the surpluses that our own governments were aiming to have, but always, as those who are diligent, in combination with growth, and never without it, will remember. I refer to specific references: In 2016-2017 there was provision for 4.5% surplus, in 2015-2016 3% growth, 3.7% growth, in 2018-2020 4.2%. There is a reason here, a development-excess relationship. You, in time of recession, had a 0.5% target surplus and went where you went with it, robbing the Greek people. The recession and the great surpluses are the problem, Mrs Ahtzioglu, not the one you remember, the trial of a small child and you say here to applaud you by your Members. Finally, Minister, I made a reminder of recent events for 2014. In your reply, you mentioned the facts which I did not understand, because they provide an answer to what I was saying to you. If you were to tell me that for the prudential credit line, there is a need for large surpluses, I would say to you: Where have you seen this? If you were to tell me that 11.5 billion euros, as the state's balance sheet and balance sheet admits tomorrow, this is a report by the General Accounting Office of the State, were returned to the Greek State and you gave it back to the terrible Minister of Varoufakis. If that is true, with the bogeyman of the General Accounting Office of the State, to get out on the preventive credit line, we had the supplies, Minister of Finance, and we did not need what you are saying today. We did it. And what did you manage? All this go back. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm done, Mr. President. In 2014, which you admitted now, through the wording of the accurate evidence that growth had reached 0.7% and there was a small, but positive relationship between spending and revenues of the state, growth has stopped. The government has dropped it. And we all remember here very well what you and your government partner were saying about MPs, who were trying to vote for the President of the Republic, so that the country could continue until the end of 2015. We had come to ask you to do that. You stopped this course, what happened at "Varoufakiad", you took the country back, remission in 2015, recession in 2016, cowardly growth - we will see which - in 2017 and you are also talking to us about plan, that is, the only thing you don't have. In any case, the day will be closed by the vote. We shall vote, as we have said several days ago, positive. However, the amendment has not yet come, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, which concerns your intervention in the Western Attica. You had promised that we would seek out the Parliamentary Representatives, bearing in mind...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u231	The amendment has been tabled. And please get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u232	The amendment on criteria has been distributed. The West Attica amendment has not been tabled. If he's filed and you only know it, it's your business. However, ladies and gentlemen, the process is progressing and ending. The political leaders and neither the rapporteurs nor the parliamentary representatives will be able to understand what it is that we will be called upon to vote shortly. But here you've lied to everything. Will we make a point of an amendment? Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u233	Mr George Vlachos from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my grief for the tragic death of twenty fellow citizens, as well as our grief for the fate of the missing. Devastation in the West Attica is very great. In a quarter, Mandra, the scenery has been completely corrupted. For a few days, the city has been unrecognized. Her citizens are bent. Despair has covered their lives. From the first moment we met there, we had many unanswered questions about what we saw happening. At the time, however, when there were dead and many missing persons and we understood with what we saw that, unfortunately, as long as the number of dead was rising, we concentrated our support on rescuers and our interest in people who had been found without a home, without food. We hear the government smacking about climate change. Until 2014, for what the governments were responsible for. Since 2014 it has been the fault of climate change, and today we have heard that it is forty, fifty and sixty years. And of course, we heard Mrs. Duru telling us it was the master's fault and everything else. However, the M.R. admitted publicly that both the Government and the Region had been notified by the Meteorological Service of extreme weather phenomena in the region. So I ask, what did the government and the region do to protect citizens? For all the rest, fair or unfair, blame anyone you want, for the forty and fifty years. But the management of the situation and the protection of the lives of citizens was and is your sole responsibility! The fact that Mandra - the sixth day - has no power and water is your responsibility and not what has happened in the past. And you cannot hide your real responsibilities behind general aspirations and awkward applause that we saw earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the distribution of social dividends is concerned, I come to the point. In 2014, as we all know, financial aid was provided, with criteria for our fellow citizens, who needed it. Why was it then? Because there was a real surplus, because we had a 30% reduction in the special levy, a 30% reduction in excise duty, a 44% reduction in VAT, a 6% reduction in contributions. That's why we gave dividends, because something different had arisen. Then, you, SYRIZA colleagues, what did you say? "The surplus is marked for the Greeks. This is what all sins, all wounds, all rot, all fraud of today's politics are hiding. It hides the drama of millions of people, the destruction of households, businesses, faintings, hunger of children, assimilation, life in death in hospitals, psychiatric hospitals, immunities." That's what you were saying. And really, today, when events have moved on, as they went on, do you feel a little need for an apology? Don't you feel a little embarrassment about what you were saying at the time and what you're saying today? Obviously, from what you say today, I understand you're not ashamed. Why, not only did you forget, but you also overthrow what you said in 2014. And in 2016, as Santa Claus, you came to give a punch. 'You paid dividends' - you told us at the time - 'with a unilateral decision'. And since - let me say the word - you have been smacked for a few days, saying that you are not asking, because you are proud Left and others, you have sent that famous humiliating letter, a letter of humiliation and repentance. You gave the dividend, without criteria, and we've come to take it from people, who shouldn't, with the known facts, which I don't want to repeat. You celebrate overcrowding today. Obviously, we do not share your unbridled optimism, since the logic says that there cannot be a surplus in an economy that is continually in recession and that, even this year, it will not achieve the objective set by the government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need a minute, Mr President. So what you say 'excess' is overtaxation, they are forced recovery measures, they are payment measures, they are cutbacks in the Public Investment Programme. Generally, it is the result of political cutbacks and austerity, of political deadlock that degrades our lives and underestimates citizens' assets and incomes. You can't underestimate the currency and underestimate our lives. At the moment you are deciding to make this distribution, we have tabled a proposal with criteria for a fair distribution. You refused her. It would be easy to say that we are not voting. But we do not want to give you the slightest right to plunder, to disorientate public opinion by saying what you want. That is why today the government must tell the Greek people the truth. With the ministerial decision to distribute the sum of 1.4 billion, announced by the government, the citizens will understand that the amount that will eventually be shared is half -720 million euros - and many beneficiaries, who think they will be beneficiaries, will finally understand that they will not be able to collect a single euro and that this dividend has no bearing on them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u235	Your time's up, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u236	I shall conclude, Mr President. The rest of the money, as we have repeated, is for social policy, which PPC has done, and not for the state, and for retired people to return after the decisions are known. The dividend, ladies and gentlemen, for those who take it, is good. But it won't even change their lives. It's a temporary relief and nothing more. Benefits and aggregations are not social policy, they are social solidarity, they are interesting, they are just aid. They give breath to today, they do not solve the real daily problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u237	Mr. Vlao, you need to finish this, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u238	Let me conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u239	It's not enough to promise you're done. Finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u240	The only solution is growth. For growth, however, they need money, they need investment. To serve this policy, you must believe it, feel it, live it. Investments for us are an option, and it is necessary for you when you cannot avoid them. That's our big difference. But that is the hope of Greek society for the next day, whatever you say, whatever you do seems to be coming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u241	Mr Dimitris Koutsoubas, President of the KKE Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u242	Ladies and gentlemen, these days they have spared the condolences and verbal support from everyone for the catastrophic floods in Mandra and New Peramos, for the innocent victims we have mourned. In addition to all of this, however, it is important to support practically the inhabitants of these regions, in particular, that there should be immediate relief, compensation for damages and exceptional aid for the needs of the affected. The JRC notes that immediate measures need to be taken to compensate residents and professionals in the region at 100% of the total damage and at the same time, protection for housing, feeding, clothing. To have a debt freeze in the tax office, the OAU, the banks, without incremental interest and interest for the affected. Immediately stop any confiscation procedures. Exemption from municipal fees for the affected. No water, electricity and telephone stops in working folk families. No one should lose his job, not be considered unjustly absent from his job, or be paid for normally inconveniences, badges, etc. The measures announced by the government do not cover compensation to those affected in 100% of the losses suffered by houses, shops and cars, apart from the fact that experience tells us that despite promises and declarations of funds, these, when they are given, are given a squeeze and with such a long delay that they do not really take place. Since the 2015 floods in Haidari, the inhabitants are still waiting to take that six hundred - year - old bay that you brought them. They haven't taken it. Same to Calamos, from summer to fire. That's why, whatever you promised today, only if the people of Mandra see entering their pockets, they'll believe it. All the others are words of air, apart from the solution to the loan is not a solution, but it is a new wild beast. The new flood disasters for many times in municipalities in Attica, which have even cost many human lives, are the time of a previous crime, a crime which has the main responsibility of politics, implemented over time by all the governments - today the SYRIZA - ANEL Government - along with local and regional administration. It is a crime that leads, in the year 2017, into Attica to lose lives, with a strong autumn rain, and to see the people's families lose their lives. Governments and the relevant state bodies, knowing in detail the exacerbation of the problem and the urgent nature of the anti-flood measures and projects, especially in the West Attica, are implementing projects and infrastructures, which are decided solely on the basis of capital profitability and, of course, do not precede the anti-flood projects. The huge disasters once again reveal the tragic lack of infrastructure and government planning to protect against natural phenomena. They highlight the unregulated anti-grassroots character of capitalist development. They eventually highlight the contempt for man, who gives this system and those who serve it. Ladies and gentlemen, let us think about where the unregulated residential development of various regions is due, the arbitrary and dense construction, the drastic restriction of free spaces, the great residential pressure, which brings to a dangerous distance the structures with the hydrographic network, how the tolerance to arbitrary construction has been exploited, and the system of compensating for the infrastructure to become the engine of development and the ruling class to shape its social alliances on the crucial issue of popular housing. Aren't you the one who brought a bill of arbitrary arrangement a few days ago, as the previous ones did? Why is there not a single spatial planning with a view to combining the needs of the people? Why is there a comprehensive interaction assessment of the various risk factors lacking in what is today's fragmentary designs? Why are major infrastructure projects such as roads, without integrated anti-military accompanying interventions, being adopted and the transformations, which result in open, unregulated or even unregulated streams, are being implemented and implemented? More generally, let us think on what criteria the hierarchies and choices of projects will be implemented. Why are anti-military, anti-military, anti-military and forest protection projects not a priority? Any individual question from the above will come up with the same answers. The criterion, which ultimately determines these developments, is the profit of large capital. In other words, the major obstacle to popular prosperity is the unregulated capitalist development, the unrelenting competition between different groups. It is not a technocratic problem, but a political crime that lasts all urban political forces. You have the nerve from above to reap the catastrophe to extreme weather phenomena, climate change or the poor world yet, who spit blood to build a house, as - as - since there was never a project to create a job housing. We insist, because the political system sacrificed and continues to sacrifice social needs on this altar of capitalist profitability. We insist that, while they are well aware of the situation, they do not even take the elementary measures proposed by various competent agencies and scientific bodies. In fact, for Mandra since 2005, we have warned you. In fact, then I was still at "RIZOPASTI", when we put it on the front page. It had become a detailed report that warned of imminent destruction if it casts a strong rain. Here's the quote. Here's the report on the entire newspaper page. I put it in the Minutes for there to be. [[At this point, the Secretary-General of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitrios Koutsoubas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] It's been 12 years since. Twelve years, which has become absolutely nothing by the governments of the New Democracy, nor by the PASOK governments, nor by the SYRIZA governments, who have shared government power these years alternately, when each one alone, together with others, is alone. In fact, what measures will be taken for competent ministers and other responsible persons, who only three months ago, in an official government document, said that New Peramos was not in danger, even from phenomena that occur every 100 years, while for Mandra it was at risk, but, where appropriate, only in two parts? Leave now for other areas, where there is not even one risk report in the million, they say, like Syme, that was recently drowned again. In fact, there is no serious person who believes that the inability of all those involved is so great or is justified by the situation with what is being heard, that they sign what is, anyway, under pressure, being exercised by politicians and industrialists and others, by the great interests of the region, etc.Huh? The victims and the dangers of this lasting political crime are more than the ones expressed in the recurring television reports. It is confirmed that any profit-based growth is contrary to the real satisfaction of people's needs. Now, the people need to organise their struggle, demanding that anti-military protection be taken, particularly in the areas with a identified problem, so that we do not mourn others dead of bad weather, as a whole, for anti-military and anti-military measures and anti-military protection, where there is evidence - and you know them - for areas at immediate risk, at the moment we are talking about, flooding phenomena. To gather forces for the people's counter-attack, for a development path, which will actually have the satisfaction of people and modern people's needs. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately all the serious and great people's needs are sacrificed to the altar of bloody surpluses, for which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is rejoicing with enthusiasm. The government invokes its declarations for the distribution of the so-called social dividend. They steal ten of the employees and the self - employed and give back one to the impoverished and act on top and the benefactor. The government's legal propaganda, which has been done, is trying to cover up who pays for the over-performance of the measures. In his night's report, last week, the Prime Minister officially claimed that over-performance was twice over last year and that it emerged, without imposing new anti-grassroots measures. He's lying fat. Over-performance comes from the bleeding of the people, above and above these goals, set by the agreements on primary surpluses. It does not, therefore, appear from scratch, as the government is trying to present it, nor does it, of course, arise from the fight against tax evasion, as the various government's 'pads' are saying. On the contrary, tax exemptions and tax reliefs grew for groups in the year that passed. We mention only a few measures: In the notorious over-recruitment of the primary surplus, the consequences of the reinsurance reform made by the government in 2016, reducing new pensions by more than 20%, thus showing EFKA's surplus and thus reducing the state pension allocation. Excessive taxation on employees, professional traders, small and medium-sized farmers, imposed in previous years by laws of all governments, has still been reflected in the ravages which the current government has maintained and extended. We also remind you that from 2020 there has been a new reduction in the tax on popular strata, so that the 'blooded' surpluses in the biennial, as the government and the 'quartet' have agreed on behalf of capital. Over-performance reflects the consistently reduced funding of hospitals, a total of health, while the needs increase sharply, the towel by 900 million of welfare funds, the slaughter of disabled pensions and the benefits of the government. We will not get tired of repeating that the Greek people have literally bleed and continue to bleed under the burden of unbearable taxation, giant insurance contributions, the evacuation of indirect taxes, but also the levelling-up of social benefits in paid pensions. Tax presumptions have led hundreds of thousands of workers to see increases in the taxes of hundreds or thousands of euros. Increases in indirect taxation, increases in VAT, even in remote islands, have led to increases in indirect taxation of almost EUR thousand per family. Insurance contributions for self-employed workers have been evacuated, while pensions have been continuously reduced. It really requires that you ask all those who have paid and paid thousands of extra taxes, premiums, reduced social benefits, be satisfied with reimbursements of a few dozen euros, which are not enough to cover even one month's costs. Ultimately, over-covering the primary surplus targets is the cumulative result of the over-performance of anti-grass policy, which is sinking even further into poverty among our workers, our people, in order to shield the objective of your development. This poverty, and even in its most extreme forms, comes to cover up and manage the government by means of social dividends, i.e. to distribute to the poorest of part of the robbery at the expense of the people's strata as a whole. The Government is investing in frustration, declining demand, which it itself is mainly cultivating to the people, presenting social dividends and other measures to manage poverty as the abstraction of its social policy and as the element, which is quite different from the New Democracy. The mockery takes off when it presents the state's self-evident obligation to retroactively return what was illegally waived by pensioners for their contributions to the health sector, by a law adopted by the former and maintained in full. At the same time, the political deception of the government goes above the level when it shows a social dividend of some of the government's debt to pensioners, i.e. sums illegally in government funds and should not be included in the budgetary surplus. Or, as a social dividend, presents the subsidy to PPC in order to support the profitability of the renewable energy groups that sell to PPC overpriced electricity. In fact, the government is cultivating a stand of waiting and fruitful expectations to the people that, the better and easier to catch the anti-grassroots goals - with their own sacrifices - the more they will have for themselves, even for those most in need. In this way, the social dividend is added to the other measures, less or more permanently, with which the government recycles poverty among the fewer, the poorer, the impoverished, by pulling everyone down, to the bottom of the barrel. At the same time, it is more than certain that the social dividend bill is intended to work as a diversion for the predetermined ninety-five measures of the third assessment, which are partly introduced into the House. The dividend bill is made at the same time as the SYRIZA - ANLL government prepares the new round of anti-popular prerequisites, which breaks down the latest privileges, which brings to the parliament a tax-free budget, which opens the online auctions of popular properties, while attempting to hit trade unions, putting them at the forefront, more decisively, even the right to strike. On these criteria, the people need to see the government's announcements and shape their attitude accordingly, strengthen the fight against politics, condemning it to poverty, demanding loss recovery and fighting for its modern needs. It is not the Greek people who will relieve you of your enormous responsibilities, gentlemen of SYRIZA, for anti-Fraud policy, for denial of hope, for deception of the whole that you attempted three years ago to bridle his vote and round down to the chair of power, taking the dolphin from the other parties of the establishment, New Democracy, PASOK and their various partners at intervals. Do not be so sure that with a few crumbs, which will be taken by some workers and the unemployed - which we, too, will agree to take, as we have done at other times, even for the slightest - that you will make them forget the barbarism that you and the previous ones have shown, with the memorial measures, the troika and the tribalisation of human dignity. It is no longer easy to fool anyone with the government's fair development story, which is a daily revolt from SYRIZA - ANEL government officials, that there is a relief for the people. All this collapses in front of what the Greek people live every day. You may, of course, have congratulations from Merkel, Lagard, Dieselblum, Symble, BSE, the European Union, the International Monetary Fund, more generally than the ruling order, on your anti-Fraud reforms, but you will only get away with the wrath of the people and youth. It won't be too late for this day. Be sure that just for this day we are still working, tirelessly and daily. It is in the interests of the workers, the unemployed and all the people's forces to turn your back even more massively and decisively. Don't allow black-white government effort. Do not allow the previous ones - who now speak to each other and do not want to hear or talk to their mobile phones and who are now in Census - to go up again, forgetting their own enormous responsibilities, because we have reached this point. This will also be part of your work. You are all equally responsible, so the people's choice will eventually change its lines: it will be supported and radically backed up by different overthrows of immunity and rot, which you have decided to manage, gentlemen of SYRIZA - ANEL and other donors of majestic sharks. Employees will be associated with the JRC in total resisting the capital strategy promoted by the Government for the signing of collective labour agreements, for increases in wages and for the cover of their losses, for the transfer of tax burdens to the large capital, for substantial measures to protect the unemployed, for the fight against privatisation and auctioning, for a society which will ultimately be defying the interests of the majority, the well-being of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u243	Mr Mavragans has the floor to present an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u245	Just let the Minister speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendment from the Ministry of Infrastructure...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u247	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u248	...with number 1349 and special 220 we think it's...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u249	Is it annoying? You all did the same before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u250	...humanisticly required. If all of us - and I believe that we are doing so - have an anthropocentric criteria for political or administrative exercise, this provision is considered necessary, imperative and immediate priority, and provides for every residence that has been affected in the areas, which have been declared emergency in the months of September, October and November 2017 - and are the areas of the municipalities of Samothrace, Symi, Agia Larissa, Tempus Larissa, Trikanes, Farcadona Trikalos, Katerini, Chania, Platanias Chania, Apokoronou Chania, Corfu and, of course, the affected municipalities in the Western Attica Regional Unit - the sum of EUR 5,000 and for each operation of 8,000 euros. We always talk per home and per operation. Evidently, when entities dominate the residence or business are more, the amount is divided into them. This provision grants this aid as tax-free, inconsistent and inconsistent to the hands of third parties or the hands of the public for precisely the reason I have told you that it is humanitarianly required. The budget, after what has been done so far and what is intended to be done, amounts to about EUR 30 million for this expenditure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u251	Yes, sir. Mr. Danellis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u252	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u253	What do you want, Mrs. Bakoyannis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u254	Mr President, I would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u255	In what process?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u256	No way. We want to ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u257	No one, huh? A prototype! If nothing else, it's original.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u258	Ask the House, Mr President, and if the House agrees...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u259	Here, Mrs. Bakoyannis, tell me what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, I would like to make a detailed question to the Minister. Minister, you said that the amount would be shared equally, in case there are three or four apartments...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u261	I didn't say that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u262	So the penthouse, which may not have been hurt, with the basement, will they take the same money?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u263	Yes, sir. Mr. Loverdo, what do you want to ask?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u264	Mr President, I will tell you why I am speaking. We need clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u265	You have speakers to put them later. You don't have one?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u266	No, we don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u267	So say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u268	This morning, when we started, we asked to have topology at an appropriate time, so that we could process it. We were promised at 14:00 the time and it's now. So we have questions that if they don't clarify, we don't understand what we're going to do. Let us talk for two minutes. One question we'll ask the Minister. In the morning, we heard Mr. Janakopoulos say a lot. He said, let's say, that for every square house, 1,000 euros, for every square business area, 500 euros and so on. If the square meters are over 150, 60% is donated, the other is a loan or something. And then he said about the 5,000. To hear this, the citizen realised that these are the measures that this government decides. But when he sees the amendment and reads the communication from the government representative and does not listen to it, he understands, ladies and gentlemen, that until the 5,000, everything that has been heard and announced is provided for years by the law which has introduced previous governments. So they're saying communal lies. Now that they've brought...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u269	That's what you're not asking for clarification, Mr. Loverdos. Wait a minute. That's what you're not asking for clarification. Please! You don't have the floor anymore.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u270	No, answer. All 5,000 and 8,000 are in addition to existing allowances today or are these deducted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u271	All right, sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr Loverdos, for giving me the opportunity to clarify this. It's a good question. Because I really...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u273	You do not leave, Mr. President....
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u274	The question, he said. You didn't just ask a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u275	The question said. You made an argument before the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u276	The question is right, in the sense that a confusion may indeed have arisen. Well, let's make it clear. This amount is additionally from the amount of compensation to be granted by means of a joint ministerial decision for the regions affected, which have recently been affected again and which concerns the floods, i.e. about 60% - 65%, which is usually granted in the joint ministerial decisions. In addition, however, the interest-free loan for as long as it is not covered. We are always talking about buildings, because there is respectively the joint ministerial decision, which must be made on the equipment of businesses, as is the case with household equipment, as you know. Therefore, this is neither offset nor deducted from other compensation. It's an additional amount. I would also like to reply to Mrs Bakoyannis, because what she said needs clarification. You asked if it was more homes, one on the other on floors. It doesn't matter. Each residence has a selfishness. I said that if they are together in an apartment - someone is congruent, obviously because they are per housing - they will share that amount when they are congruent. If it's 50%, everyone indivisible, they'll probably get 50% -50%. Whether they are in an individual undertaking or in another undertaking by 50% in shares or in a different company, they will share the remuneration according to their share.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u277	Mr Stavros Theodorakis, President of the Potamio, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u278	Mr President, we have asked for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u279	Wait a minute, Mr. Theodorakis. You're welcome, Mr. Karathanasopou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u280	Mr President, the question we want to ask is this: there has been a specific amendment. Includes only the exceptional one-off contribution. There is nothing else to be said about debts, which may have tax on insurance funds. Are these going to freeze? Loans to the banks? Is there not something that the government will bring about on the specific issues relating to HIS or EVA?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u281	Mrs. Papanaceu, do you want to say something about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u282	The joint ministerial decision, which extends the debts of the affected for a six-month period to 31-3-2018, has already been signed. From there on, we see everything else provided for by the law. This is done in all natural disasters. It's not just about the West Attica case. It's a ministerial decision. You don't need anything legislative. As far as ENPI is concerned, because we have some cases that really need to be done, the amendment will come in next bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u283	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u284	Would you like to speak, Mr. Dannelly, as a parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u285	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u286	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u287	One question, Mr President, for a second. I'm a West Attica congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u288	I know. They're other MPs. Mr. Danellis has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u289	Mr President, I am a Member of Parliament in the affected area.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u290	No, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u291	That's not behaviour.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u292	What did you say? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u293	I don't want to ask about me. I want to ask about the citizens who are affected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u294	Mr. Bourra, there's a procedure. I already broke her.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u295	Don't be so absolute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u296	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u297	We have now taken the amendment in our hands and the world expects clarification from us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u298	What do you want? Should we stop the process and discuss with all Members of Parliament?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u299	A clarification to facilitate the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u300	They have now heard it in West Attica. Say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u301	Minister, you are indeed writing about the municipalities affected in West Attica. And so we can be covered tomorrow...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u302	Do you have a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u303	It's a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u304	Make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u305	The affected municipalities - you all hear - are Mandra, Nea Peramos, Elefsina, but also Magula and the coasts of Elefsina. So make a statement to make that all of this is contained in this wording. It's not just the two names that sound like Mandra, Nea Peramos. It is also the Malagoula next door, which is the coast of Elefsina, where the waters are poured. It's the beach of the Megaras. Make this clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u306	It's Keratsini, Minister. Take this into consideration, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u307	Anyone else from another area?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u308	Don't make fun of the areas!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u309	Come on! Biblicality ends up. Please. Mr Nikolaos Mavraganis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u310	For that very reason, because there are districts affected and in nearby municipalities, that is why the wording is careful. It says: 'the municipalities in the Western Attica Regional Unit'. So they are enclosed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u311	Mr Spyridon Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u312	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are expressing our devastated tragedy in West Attica. Our timeless indifference, state and society, for the possible consequences of delusional anthropogenic intervention in nature, with the sole aim of achieving personal benefits, away from rules, design and sense of measure, literally made us an irreversible state. A few days ago Symi, Corfu, followed by West Attica. Everything shows that climate Nemesis, unfortunately, will visit us more and more frequently. That is why as ever the overall armour design has gone with protective and restoration measures. It is essential to adopt a new model of civil protection with the active involvement of society. And as for the responsibilities, which are obviously there and spread in yesterday and today, in central and self-government, they are morally and politically unacceptable, it is hypocritical that all this blame game, on the other hand, which is dedicated to the media and the "yellow" broadcasters at all times. And if the intensity of weather phenomena escapes human planning and the prediction of disasters is not simple and easy, the usual polytechnic appointment is, however, predictable. It is a minority to smuggle the memory of democracy fighters and the symbol of overthrowing the dictatorship. In fact, when this is so far out of hand that the lives of unsuspecting citizens of residents and policemen are at risk. Horror images with the lawyer whose leg caught a fire from a naval flare, which doesn't erase either with a fire extinguisher, are on the other side of an open progressive society, which is supposed to be the fascists of historical memory and democratic struggles of our people. We must finally seriously discuss the old idea of unification of the Polytechnological School with the Archaeological Museum by removing the Architecture School from the region. It's the only way to lay down the timeless yacht, which is unprotected by university asylum. In my place they say 'give the villager courage'. So the Ruviks, after their unfortunate choice to break into the Spanish Embassy, risking the challenge of a diplomatic incident, which forced the state to react for the first time with court decisions, intervene in the Pentagon and leave undisturbed as a school trip. And they are properly partying with the humiliating suspension of their manhood online. Is it time for a serious response to their dangerous foolishness? Ladies and gentlemen, the parties in the constitutional arc must finally reach agreement before it is too late. We owe it to society. We owe it to democracy. In relation to the social dividend bill, I do not think anyone believes seriously that the desired redistribution of wealth can be done with such methodologies. The best support for the most winter-driven social groups is the creation of essential conditions for the production of national wealth and solid jobs. The planned amounts could bring much better results if they did not follow the weather-driven methodology of single allowances. In the critical turning point our economy is going through, it's not helping fireworks. It's not helping to feed hope through charity. Because charity is every aid, every allowance given once. With regard to Article 2, to which I shall refer only to an economy of time, which relates to the return of healthcare detentions, since 2012 the State has miscalculated the main pension contributions on the basis of a miscalculated calculation. This very fundamental mistake by the government at the time, but also the opposition's inability to locate it, shows what can happen when the bills go through with express procedures. We had to reach the Katorugalou law to recognise the mistake, as did the state's self-evident obligation to return the sums unduly withheld to the beneficiaries. This must concern us, because this well-known pathogen is constantly repeated. We're cuffing and creating unjust ones. So we restore an injustice, which we ourselves have created. In Article 3, to cover costs of providing services of general interest through PPC’s accounts, what are these YYKOs? This is a completely uneconomic, unfair and polluting system, which burdens Greek consumers with EUR 600-800 million a year. This ensures that the non-interconnected islands of the country are powered three decades after the first projects for their interconnection with the mainland are drawn up. Today, the thirty-two uninterconnected islands of the country are guaranteed with autonomous oil stations, diesel or fuel oil, which have been installed since the 1960s and 1970s. The entire Greek taxpayers are invited to pay these costs through their electricity accounts as a service of general interest. It should be noted that, over the past five years, a total of EUR 3.5 billion has been charged, which, according to RAE's estimates, could fully cover the costs of interconnecting almost all islands and, of course, also constitutes a Memorandum of Understanding. All this irrational system leads to the electricity cost of a house in Crete, Rhodes, Anafis and so on is multiple the average cost of the electricity of a house in Attica or the rest of the continental Greece. In the mainland, the average cost of production is around 50 euros. The corresponding cost for Crete is EUR 162,26. The Ottoon is 453 euros. Ikaria 380 euros. In the case of Agathonissius, it is launched at 1724 euros. Attention! These figures do not include, of course, environmental costs, because they are not so easily quantified. However, it's huge. In closing, serious planning is required, ladies and gentlemen. Because only he, like the strong will to implement our intended obligations, can build a serious social state of claim for citizens. Benefit policy is the management of poverty, and at the present stage of the Greek economy it may seem necessary, but it does not create any prospect. The reduction of inequalities requires a serious and comprehensive development planning. So let us get to grips with the conditions that this serious development plan requires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, too. Mr Stavros Theodorakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u314	Twenty, then, dead in Mandra. We have to make a stand here. Not only because the loss of 20 people is important, not only because we cannot overcome it, but because, ladies and gentlemen, there is a thread linking SYRIZA's perception of governance with the tragic events in Mandra. The country doesn't have a plan, it doesn't have a plan, it doesn't have a plan. It is no coincidence that in all three Memorandums there have been many provisions, many checks that have been made by force, but there is also something that we systematically refuse to do. It's, as you know, the National Development Plan. He asked for the first memorandum, asked for the second, asked for the third and we still haven't done it. So we're smuggling into problems, battling and constantly giving ground to the charlatans of promises, who instead of a plan, instead of a plan, instead of solutions, play a war with promises. Large cases, such as flooding and environmental protection, are not on the public agenda. And when they enter, they enter in terms of stunning. Mrs Dourou in her attempt to win the region, she had promised - and the audio documento plays continuously these days online - that within six months she would have a complete anti-military design. And as a genuine child of civil-military populism, Ms. Dourou then accused Mr. Sfortus of the man lost in the floods of 2013. Now, with the twenty-lost lives, who's responsible? Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, the state and the region - and it is the minimum conclusion of all of us - were sleeping. In the first critical hours of the storm there was no specific warning to the inhabitants, there was no plan and there was no mobilisation. They woke up, the state and the region, after seeing the number of dead on the sites. And of course, the case is old and the problems are very old. We were breaking streams, making the winter streets, closing the rivers and building arbitraryly almost everywhere. We despised the power of nature. But if our fathers could invoke their total poverty and ignorance, what excuse do we have for all this? Scientists have warned us systematically for ten years about what is coming, the extreme weather phenomena that will be multiplied and killed every time. It is therefore necessary to have a policy on the environment, from the very small ones, from the arbitrary to the stream, that is to say, up to the large, emissions of pollutants that accelerate climate change. It is revealed that the Attica Region had budgeted for flooding projects at least EUR 31 million and on 30 September 2017 it had spent only 5 million. Why so incompetent? Why so late? Why so obedience - to believe - in the monster of bureaucracy? Is it because now, ladies and gentlemen of Annell, is your monster? Is it the monster you've adopted now? It is clear that there is no desire to clash with the bureaucracy and the affinity of the past. We smuggle left, we smack right, and we call that politics. However, unconnected ministerial acts and decisions are not government policy. So let's go to the bill. You decided to split dividends. What is your plan to support the real weak, to create jobs and to tax? These three, poverty, unemployment, taxation are interlinked. I would like to give you a few examples, because we have addressed our people, our acquaintances, our friends, to personalise the problem with taxation. So Matina is a graduate of economics with a graduate in the Netherlands. He's back in Greece, and for one, he's keeping books. It has profits of about 10,000 euros a year. 60% will give it to the state for taxes and contributions. And they will be left to her - pay attention - 350 euros a month, less, that is, what she would get from the Unemployment Fund. Anna is a pharmacist, she has profits - that is, revenues less costs - 60,000 euros a year. You don't call it a little. But do you know how much she'll have left of these 60,000 euros by paying taxes and contributions? She'll have something less than 17,000 euros a month, that is, 1400 euros a month. Everything else will go to the state, to taxes and contributions. Let's go to a cowardly company. George and Aspasia are craftsmen. They have profits of about 30,000 euros. If the taxes come out, if the contributions come out, their two households - because they are not a couple - will have to get through with something less than EUR 500 a month, in an activity that gives them EUR 30,000 a year! Lawyers. A young lawyer picks up about 15,000 euros a year. He pays taxes and contributions almost 7,000 euros and stays in his pocket of 650 euros a month. And if he's torturing it a little more and making another 5,000 euros, he's going to win another 70 euros a month! A younger businessman, engineer, a young businessman in the IT sector with an income of EUR 50 000, that is, about EUR 4,000 a month, will give insurance contributions of EUR 19,000 and EUR 8,000 in income tax and a trade fee. I mean, he's only got 23,000 euros left. He will not have 2,000 euros a month from the 4,100 euros he made. A small businessman, Vassilis, has three employees. To have three employees with a 1,000 euros a month, he pays 70,000 a year! Because of EUR 1.655 taken by a card worker, only EUR 1000 will be in his pocket. Be careful to see how we drive the world into black labor. George is a new waiter. To get 500 euros a month, his employer declares him about 10,000 euros a year. He's giving about 2,000 euros for contributions. And he ends up putting something in the pocket less than 500 euros a month. I could go on with many other examples of people who have built their property, their troubles, so that the SYRIZA - ANEL can talk about a surplus today. Every worker ends up having behind him a history of tax madness, all victims of a tax-fixing state machine, a waste that does not respect the euros of the working citizen. High taxes, large contributions, i.e. the road that the government has chosen today, allow for temporary benefits, but reduces incentives for work. This overtaxation, I think, and this is the most unpleasant, is a conscious decision of the current government. They confess to it in some rare cases, and some ministers, that 'instead of reducing expenditure, we have gone to overtaxation in the middle class'. This results in the dissolution of the middle class. Soon it will open up so much that we will only have two classes: the poor and the old ones. Poor people, who will extend their hand to help, and a small privileged class who will want to trade with power and ministries. And a little near the holidays a government will seek the ideal voters to share some extraordinary allowances. No plan for the new generation, no plan to boost entrepreneurship and no plan to reduce waste. Only a single paragraph on waste. Our country has, and we keep pointing it out, a hundred and fifty-six political secretaries, general, specific, sectoral and additional. He had seventy nine and you, gentlemen of the government, doubled them over the last two years. Here, then, is a great scope to reduce waste and then reduce taxes. In 2017, we had additional tax-collective measures of EUR 2.5 billion, while for 2018 these measures will be about another EUR 2 billion, to be actually EUR 1.9 billion. And all this, while we're already paying 50 billion for taxes. And when I say we pay, according to the current figures you've seen, I'm mostly talking about them, about 20% of taxpayers who pay over 80% of taxes. So what do I say? As long as the country's wealth doesn't increase, we'll be chasing our tail. We will increasingly recycle less and less wealth among the middlemen, the poor, the young and the poor. I will read you three sentences from the last report - just a few words - from the State Budget Office in Parliament: 'The high rates are deterring the attraction of investments that the Greek economy so much needs and are strengthening the exit of Greek businesses to other countries with a more friendly environment for business'. It is not our voice - it could be - but it is the State Budget Office in Parliament. And I continue - be careful - 'Sacrifice of sacrifice must be avoided in developing the phenomenon of the poor worker and indeed the new poor worker.' The Prime Minister, of course, says that the dividend comes from growth and from falling unemployment. The reality, however, disproves him. Unemployment is falling, but not with normal jobs. In 2016, despite the decline in unemployment on paper, labour revenues of both employees and self-employed fell. To say this in simple terms: where we had a EUR 700 job today, we have two jobs of EUR 350. The government's tax and insurance system operates as a brake on growth. Growth this year will be 1.5%, very behind your target. And in three years, because this is important, 2015-2017 Spain will achieve a cumulative growth of 10%, Cyprus almost 10%, that is, 9%, Portugal 3.5% and Greece only 1%. Ladies and gentlemen, in Greece of the crisis, protection - and here I think we can all agree on this great title - and support for the truly weak is the first objective. However, occasional allowances do not solve the problem, because the problem of these people is very low incomes and unemployment. We will insist on our proposal, which has been submitted to Parliament again: minimum guaranteed income for social protection for those who have no other solution or those who have been affected by temporary misfortune, minimum guaranteed income, and on the other hand, dynamic policies for a systematic increase in production for new jobs and for the creation of opportunities to increase incomes. The Greek, ladies and gentlemen, after so many years of crisis, is ready to bounce and want the work. But you government gentlemen, with what you've been doing in recent years, are tearing down the oven and now so that you can ease his pain a loaf of bread. We will not deprive this carbide of the world, but our struggle is and remains the same: citizens, who will not depend on the crumbs of the ruler. That's the fight, that's the effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u315	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the High Beach of Tyros Arcadias. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister has the floor for a clarification. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u316	Mr President, I would like to make a verbal correction. In legislation, in number 2, the word ‘replace’ shall be replaced by ‘added’. I think it wasn't very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u317	The President of the New Democracy, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has the floor. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u318	Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is taking place at a hard time at a dramatic juncture. The West Attica tragedy covers everything. I would also like to express my sincere condolences to our fellow citizens, who have lost their lives unjustly, and our support for the people of Mandra, who are still being tested under tons of mud. I would like to express my congratulations and gratitude to the livelihoods, especially to the women and men of Coreper, who work night - day after day and the last hope of finding our fellow citizen alive. To express my congratulations to the hundreds of volunteers who, with a surplus of humanity, have also been quick to assist our fellow citizens who are being tested. I would like to repeat today what I have said since the first moment of this tragedy. In West Attica, decades of destructive choices have been made: arbitrary construction, heavy streams, a total lack of serious environmental infrastructure. With courage we must all assume our responsibilities, which are today the poorest fellow citizens who are most vulnerable to natural disasters. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] I said from the outset that we would not do what you would do if you were opposition, let alone what you did, when you were opposition. However, that does not mean, ladies and gentlemen, that there are no great responsibilities for what you have not done in the nearly three years that you have been running and for what the region has not done, which - I would remind you - you have been running since September 2014, and of course you have been running the crisis since last Wednesday's catastrophic flood. The more time passes, the more questions become merciless and must finally be answered: Why were flood management plans not completed within the timetable set by the relevant European directive? Why did the Attica region not launch the flooding projects launched by the previous administration, projects for which there were both approved resources and integrated studies? Does Mrs Durou really say that she could not go ahead with the project to settle the stream of St. Catherine because she did not have the necessary approvals of the services? I submit to the minutes the decision approving environmental conditions from 2-7-2014, on the subject: Environmental impact study of the project 'Saint Catherine torrent and torrent settlement of Sures Tria of Area Attica', which says that this Decision is also an authorisation to intervene in forest lands. As of 2 July 2014, there is the relevant decision of the decentralised administration. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why did not the necessary land restraint works take place on Mount Father, after Mandra, after the recent fires of 2015 and 2016? These are fundamental actions, not only for reafforestation of mountains, but above all for the avoidance of such flooding phenomena. What exactly did Political Protection do, Mr Ministers? Why have we come to mourn twenty dead for a bad weather that was also predicted in terms of its local characteristics and in terms of its intensity? Why wasn't the residents alerted in good time? Why didn't some streets shut down? I would remind you that many of the victims were unsuspecting passing through. These questions are awaiting an answer, and we will put them again and again, until we take them - and not throw them to the master and to the mistakes of the last forty years, which are certainly there, and as I said at the beginning, we must bravely recognise them. As, yes, Mr Theodorakis, it is a reality that climate change, the effects of which we will increasingly experience in the coming years. And that is why systematic and careful planning is needed over time. Twenty dead, then, two missing persons and no resignation. The relevant district minister has brought to justice, obviously against herself, and tells us that she will accept the responsibilities if she is to blame - he says - justice. Let one explain to her that when justice is responsible, they are generally criminal, and if they are rendered, he will take over, he will not. I would remind you here of Mrs Durou' s statements, which she did just before she was elected. "I don't have to tell you that I'm going to my house, if I don't do the flooding, because it's just for us it's a priority, and it's going to be, like the statements of the competent Minister, Mr. Spirtzi, I don't see the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u319	He's in America.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u320	Oh, he's still in America, right? He didn't bother getting a plane back. You see, he had more important things to do. "In 2017, Mr. Spirtzis told us, "the emphasis of the National Public Investment Program will be on anti-military works rather than on the squares, so that we can stop seeing in the poor neighbourhoods of Athens that the hard work of life is lost." I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the abovementioned statements, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So I'm afraid you're not just incompetent, but you're also analgesic. We have twenty dead and the Prime Minister left for Sweden, while the Minister for Infrastructure did not bother to return from America. All this, after Mr. Tsipras thought it was appropriate for ten minutes to pass from the region. And he avoided seeing the citizens himself, as he systematically reversed his gaze and any other natural disaster has taken place in our country over recent years. What Prime Minister is he, who is absent from any natural disaster? Apollos was Mr. Tsipras and the fires. From air alone it inspected them too, too, with a great deal of delay, when they were almost erased. It was from the earthquakes in Lesvos and Kos. He was in the great ecological disaster in the Saronic. It did not even visit the areas affected, not once. On the substance of the matter, it is now absent. He made a quick passage from the area and then to Sweden. And all this, in a protected environment, in the wilderness of local society. In Sweden, of course, there has always been time for photographs and ambitious declarations of change in Europe's social model. In contrast to what you would have done if you were opposition, we have been very responsible. We have set up a committee of experts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u321	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u322	Immediately in the next few days, we will be able to make our findings public about what has not been done properly and what can be corrected. We have proposed a series of measures for the immediate relief of our affected fellow citizens. We contacted the competent European bodies to see, not only how we will have access to the European Solidarity Fund for natural disasters, but also how we will be able to mobilise additional resources from the European budget for 2018. We have mobilised our volunteers, our organisations, our youth to contribute to the extent that we can support the people of the region. We put our backs on and we'll put our backs on. I fear, however, that the tragedy in Western Attica is not, unfortunately, the only sign that Greece is today in many fields of an ungulate state. In Exarcheia, a lawyer is in critical condition at the hospital because he was hit by a fire hose from the known criminal elements in the area. When ten days ago we raised this issue here in Parliament, did Mr Tsipras come with information that they did? He compared half 2017 to the whole of 2016, to tell us that everything is going well in this area. How well the entire Greek people found it immediately. Kalashnikov attack against policemen guarded by PASOK offices. Ruvikon, after parliament and embassies, enters undisturbed even in the Pentagon. We didn't even have one single induction. And because I do not believe that you do not understand the consequences of the government's policy of tolerance on security, I am forced once again to draw any further conclusions: whether you think that the activity of this information is politically helpful or you cannot put it with them. In both cases, however, the conclusion is the same: the bond, the thread, which unites some of the SYRIZA components with the Ruvikon, with the tramps of the Exarchy, with the unrepentant theorists of terrorism and political violence, unfortunately, remains alive. Neither your actions nor your words overthrow this conclusion. Inertia, tolerance, some halves sometimes on the twitter. That's all we've seen so far, while we're watching you set up a new parastate. Because a state, as we have seen, unfortunately, does not exist in West Athens. The para-state, however, is blooming with underground attacks on institutional actors, which have recently been heard are being persecuted on the occasion of publications which have systematically carried out mud contracts. It is a parastate, of course, which we see every day and in the works of your colonel in the government, Mr. Kammenos. Last Friday and four years late, Mr. Kammenos was sentenced to encourage the people of Halkidiki to lincance a citizen. These are the customs you and he made together in public life. The rest of Mr. Kammenos's scandals, I'll see you on Thursday when he comes to the House. This debate will not be at all pleasant for Mr Kammenos, nor for you, for all the members of the government who continue to cover him in silence for weeks, despite the constant revelations at the expense of your Minister. This is how we reach the theme of today's debate, on the dividend of 2017. After dismantling the economy and pooring society for three consecutive years, you are now coming to celebrate, because you have exceeded the goals you have set for the surplus of 2017 and you will turn something back to the citizens. So just to make it clear once again. Your job is to claim smaller surpluses rather than to rejoice when the surpluses are larger than what you have agreed. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Why does this absolutely weaken every effort in the future to reduce the amount of the primary surplus and to breathe the economy and do your job, the work of all of us, to redeem the debt even more difficult, since there will always be some wells who claim that, since the Greek economy can systematically produce surpluses, why does Greece need a debt arrangement? As for the dividend, things are very simple. The government took a lot from one pocket to give it little to the other. You are exaggerating them and making them poor at the same time. You don't even make a redistribution policy. Because they are the weakest classes that are the real victims of your policy. That's not all we talk about, that's all the evidence. Only this year have you imposed a total of EUR 2.7 billion. You're coming back 700 million, one quarter. Overall in the three years 2015-2018 you have imposed measures amounting to EUR 9.4 billion. Add all the 5.1 billion that will be imposed in 2019 and 2020 by reducing tax relief and pension cuts and by reducing the total sum of the Tsipras - Kammenos government's measures to EUR 14.5 billion. A government that has adopted measures of EUR 14.5 billion, Mr Vice-President, is a success in returning 650 million last year and 720 million this year. You underestimate the world's intelligence if you think you can make fun of him. And because all these numbers might confuse you, I'll give you a real example. A pensioner of seventy-two years with today's pension of EUR 670, on your day this pensioner lost his NSCR and at the same time pays the increased contributions for EEAS that you voted in July 2015. How much has this pensioner lost in total? He lost 190 euros a month every month. And you come and give him 250 euros, 21 euros a month. You took him ten forever to give him a single one. And not to talk about the prospect of cutting its already cut-off pension from 2019 onwards. I say that to you too, because the Greek people are well aware of it. For three years you have been reducing the income of all Greeks, especially the weakest, by increasing taxes, especially on indirect taxes, which are also socially unfair. You've increased the VAT. You increased the tax on fuel, tobacco, beer, wine and even coffee, public transport tickets. You cut off the heating allowance. You cut off the C.E.S.A. You've cut your widow's pensions. You're cut off, and you're going to cut another prose and wheelchair benefits. You created the generation of 360 euros and you tolerate working jungle conditions. You lead to a deadlock of weak fellow citizens and despair of the new generation. Nevertheless, you continue to think you can make fun of yourself, because as you have come to power in lies, so you keep lying to me to exercise authority. I know that the absentee of today's debate, Mr. Tsipras, doesn't like to talk about the lies he's talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u323	He's in Cyprus. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u324	Is it in Cyprus?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u325	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u326	I didn't know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u327	Mr. Mitsotakis, you know them better than Mr. Balaura. Mr. Prime Minister will be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u328	So let me list and let the financial staff listen to the lies, which the government has today numbered. You say you share 1.4 billion. A social dividend is just EUR 720 million. 315 million is compulsory reimbursement to retired people. Since when is a self-evident obligation of the state, resulting from a mistake that has been made in the past, is social policy being baptized?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u329	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u330	It is not social policy, however. The other 350 million are PPC's support. Why, Mr Ministers, does this aid need exactly? Because, of course, you have not managed to do anything to redeem the business, bring new investments and solve the problem of the interconnection of the islands. So that's the truth behind the social dividend. The second and greatest lie is that you say that the surplus, Minister, comes from growth. Yes, sir! Development. This would be true if you were more growth than you anticipated. But this is exactly the opposite. The forecasts for growth are constantly being reviewed downwards. You started with 2.7% and I think you'll close with 1.5%, if not 1.4%. In all eurozone countries, growth estimates are being revised upwards. Only in Greece, estimates for growth are revised downwards. So not only are there no surpluses due to growth. On the contrary, there is overtaxation precisely because you have fallen out on the objectives of development. Third lie. You say that the revenue comes from the decline in unemployment. Yes, sir! There was a decline in unemployment in 2016. Unfortunately, however, the revenue from the employees and the self-employed rather than increasing has been reduced, because what has been happening over the last two years and you insist that you do not recognise it is that full-time jobs are lost and part-time jobs are created. Except that does not bring much more revenue to the state budget and obviously cannot in itself create the surplus. Fourth lie. The overrun of the budgetary objective is due to the limitation of corruption and tax evasion. The government's subsidy, as has been shown several times by questions put by our group in the field of combating tax evasion and smuggling, is entirely inadequate. How much revenue have you promised in the first six months of tax evasion? Three billion, if I remember. You have barely collected more than 100 million when at the same time the European Commission sees an increase in tax evasion despite increased use of electronic transactions due to capital controls. We had no over-performance, ladies and gentlemen, because of the economy. We simply had a sound and hard overtaxation, such as in a crisis of sincerity Mr Tsakalotos and Mr Juliarakis confessed before the Greek Parliament. We were bleeding out of everything, especially of the middle class, so that today the merciful government could present itself to the "father" that he supposedly cares for the weakest. To sum up, overcoming the budgetary objective is due: firstly, the ruthless tax raid and the invasion of insurance against everything, especially the free traders. Secondly, in seizures of one million citizens and businesses, with another seven hundred thousand of our fellow citizens at risk. Thirdly, the expanded internal rate of payments. Fourthly, the huge delay in the awarding of pensions. Three hundred thousand pensions, Mr. and Mr. Subsidiary, are still waiting and you haven't given them. And fifthly, in suspending investment expenditure from the Public Investment Programme, at a heavy natural price for the development of the country. This is how you achieved the surplus, to be the Santas of politics today, in a country where many of our fellow citizens have forgotten Christmas. I'll say it again: you don't care about a truly strong economy that grows with its own powers. You want citizens dependent on you, dependent on a new benefits policy. And because you don't get it out because your lies are chasing you, attack against everything, creating the most toxic atmosphere the Hellenic Republic has ever known. But the citizens, Mr Tsipras and Mr Drasakis, are not ammunition. When you are accusing and insisting on blaming the New Democracy, as you did the other day, with false news, which you have, of course, rushed to reproduce, for allegedly undermining national effort, citizens know very well what you were doing as Opposition. Only we will do what we have to do to get the country out of the deadlock, as we have always done what we had to do. We fought Grexit, when you were looking for plan B, we said what we should do, Mr Tsakalote, to reduce the surpluses that you agreed with and with which the Greeks are paying your own unreliability today. And we do not miss a chance to encourage foreign investors to come to Greece today when you lead them out! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We see it very well and everyone sees it today in Greek and Skouria. And it is a total profit for the country that today's opposition guarantees a pro-investment environment and economic stability. Do you want me to remind you what you have done as an opposition? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I will remind you of them, because I see that you are shouting and in a state of turmoil: you have been poisoning public opinion with toxic and divisive misery at all times. You have done above - down in Athens, you have openly undermined the country's fiscal stability. You called on people not to pay HISPIAN - do you remember them? - Because you were supposed to take him down! You told the citizens not to pay off their obligations because they're having a dissatisfaction. They are the same citizens who are currently facing your own auctions and your own seizures. And most of all, you fought rabies any investment in the country from the previous government. Wasn't Mr. Tsipras personally the one who told investors not to come to Greece? Don't they dare invest, why would they lose their money? And you're talking about growth, which you've been fighting all the investments for years, which you're incapable of implementing today. And you're talking about supposedly undermining the opposition when you were the most irresponsible, the most vague, the most destructive opposition the country has ever known. Ladies and gentlemen, for the New Democracy, support for our weakest fellow citizens must be given to permanent policies, through stable resources that form part of the ordinary budget. I want to remind you that we were the first to launch the minimum guaranteed income as the most effective tool for combating extreme poverty. I would remind you that in your first steps as government you fought it and rejected it. Of course, extreme poverty is not only combatting it with limited allowances, but mainly with jobs, jobs which come only through private investment, investments which you fight at every opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, failure and finalisation of the government do not change the reality. And the reality is that today millions of our fellow citizens need little help. We have put our own proposal in the public debate on how we believe that social dividends should be allocated by excess, as you call it. We have given priority to the long-term unemployed, but at the same time, we have also proposed a stepping-up of HISPIA for all property owners, with greater emphasis on the poorest income layers and, at the same time, we have committed that part of the surplus should be returned to the state's recipients of late payments. You didn't even want to discuss this proposal. You brought yours. We will be voting in favour of this because many of our fellow citizens need this little help. But the mistake in his policy 'I get five and I turn one' is not that you turn one, but that you get five. So instead of celebrating the minimum returning, it is good that you finally apologise for the many things you have taken. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And above all, apologise for the thousands of unemployed who are today condemned to the margin, because you are unable to return the Greek economy to a real development orbit. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Tsipras - I imagine he hears from somewhere - citizens are no longer being deceived. They know you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. President, can you impose a little quiet?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u331	Be quiet, please! We're all listening. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u332	And no temporary provision is able to reverse the political climate. The country must come out of the vicious circle of introversion and become a normal European country, and that can only guarantee a great political change. With the National Plan of New Democracy Greece can re-enter the path of growth, dignity and advancement with fewer taxes, more investment, less bureaucracy and, above all, more opportunities for jobs for all Greeks. The Greeks now know well every day that we deserve better and so we will all move forward together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u333	Before giving the floor to Mrs. Gennamas, Mr. Chakalotos has asked to intervene for a minute. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u334	Mr. Mitsotakis, I heard you very carefully. You said we're creating toxicity with our word. Do you think your word was rose-leafed? Is that what you're telling us? Was he triangular when you called us liars all the time? What is this thing that you're constantly saying that we have a toxic reason and you have this style and the way you speak and tell us liars? And I'm telling you: if you want it not to be toxic, why don't you answer and you're not informed about the conversation? In the debate in the committees we have explained, firstly, something you do not know, that there can be no over-performance, not by paying for the Public Investment Programme. It's not accounting. We have explained that it is not possible to achieve this over-performance in budgetary terms with an increase in delays. We explained all this, Mr. Stavros knows, he should have informed you. We have explained how much money we have received from the increase in ECA's revenues due to the increase in employment. We explained that we received EUR 400 million because of voluntary disclosure of incomes. We have explained that the IMF - you know it because you too have negotiated - always underestimates the return of measures. Or do you think we're not in negotiation and there's no Memorandum? Instead of coming here and constantly saying that we're liars, why can't you have a conversation on the real facts and say what you're gonna do? And why don't you tell us, if you want to reduce taxes, where will you cut expenditure? From the hospitals, from education? I've caused you, for a couple of months you've been constantly talking about tax reductions, to tell me where this money will come from. You haven't answered once. I imagine it will be the story we have been hearing for thirty years, that "we will give the rich, make growth, and slowly go down to the poor." Do you understand why Lepen is doing well? Do you understand why Wilders is doing well? Do you understand why Trump has gone well? Because this strategy to reduce only taxes and not to look at hospitals, education, security in schools - we are talking only about Exarches - has brought this stagnation. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And instead of being ironic, you must once tell us: we have a programme that will reduce the number of schools, reduce the costs of education. Your friends in the IMF consider it difficult to target, because we have blocked expenditures from schools and from education and put an increase in costs into their calculations. You, who are not populists and are realistic, can you tell us at some point where these tax reductions will come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u335	You're welcome, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u336	That's my last word. Without telling us where the cuts will come from, I return the populism, I return the lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u337	Thank you. I very much ask the President of the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR to come to the Step. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Immediately after that the Deputy Minister of Finance will speak, Mr Juliarakis will speak, depending on the Prime Minister's arrival. Here, Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u338	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again I would like to begin by expressing my grief at the loss of so many people, but also my support for their families and also for those affected. What we lived in Mandra and New Peramos was really a shock for all of us. This is not the image that suits Greece of the 21st century and under no circumstances can we accept these situations fatally. There are responsibilities and must be attributed and taken over. Efforts to transfer these responsibilities is an insult to the memory of the victims, it is an insult to the affected. It is obvious that it is not enough to do the work that has taken place over the past few years. Finally, we need serious work and concrete actions, to unleash studies, to unleash projects that are either delaying the region's responsibility or why this government has cut this EUR 722 million out of the Public Investment Programme. If we do not want to mourn other victims in the future, there must finally be works and not other words in this place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u339	Please, be quiet. Don't talk to each other. Madam President, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u340	The government has announced measures to relieve the affected. He announced income support. Yeah, but it's not enough. It is necessary to immediately suspend the payment of the debts of professionals and households to the State and to the banks, for example HICP, the suspension of the auctions, and whatever is needed. If there are no other resources, you have a last chance today to make use of part of the surplus to meet this responsibility you have towards people. Such measures must also be taken for the disasters that took place in Symi, but first and foremost the suspension of the imminent increase in VAT on the island. And before I get to the essence of the issues that we are discussing, I cannot say first of all to Mr Tsakaloto. We are still awaiting his resignation, as he had announced if the government had made a reduction in tax. On the other hand, I would remind Mr Mitsotakis that the proposal on guaranteed income was a proposal of our own and had a specific signature, "Visilis Kegeroglou". And that's what I'm saying about restoring the truth. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Government, as its own ministers have said, is the middle-class with hard tax on the grounds that this is all in favour of the poor as a whole. However, Mr Tsipras and his group are implementing an economic policy that impoverishes the whole of the Greeks. Indicative of this concept - and Mr Chakalotos is trying to collect it today - is that he considers a family with children, with a total monthly income of EUR 1,185 mixed, that is to say, marginally EUR 1,000 per month purely. These are the possessors and possessors according to Mr. Tsipras! With the loots of taxation, they are trying to give antidote and throw ashes into people's eyes. They cut off the ESS, the heating allowance, the social benefits, the widow's pensions, the support to public hospitals. It is Mr Tsipras himself who cut the pensions and hit the economically weaker ones. That's the truth. It's worth it to stand by how we got to this year's primary surplus. I'll say specific things. In 2017, new taxes of EUR 2.5 billion were imposed. They cut pensions and social benefits of 1.8 billion euros. Even the contributions of farmers and free professionals by EUR 500 million were increased. And because these measures do not pay off, because quite simply the citizens are unable to pay, they started in time and cut expenditure. They curtailed, as I said before, EUR 1.8 billion, not from waste, but from where? From grants to public hospitals, from the Public Investment Programme and many social costs. This has shaped the notorious surplus, 40% of which Mr Tsipras shares. Most of it goes to debt service. We pay for overtaxation and not for growth. Ladies and gentlemen, there is an urgent need for a policy change in the country. You're gonna tell me, is it bad for there to be primary surpluses? No, but under an inalienable condition, it is not the result of extermination of austerity and social analgesia, as is the case today, of a healthy surplus of development, a surplus that must be shared fairly to everyone. We believe that is what Mr Tsipras cannot do and Mr Mitsotakis does not understand. I'll make it more understandable. If growth in the two years 2015-2016, as foreseen before the SYRIZA-ANEL necklace, had reached 6%, no cuts and no extra tax would be needed today. It is no longer a common conscience that with this government we cannot get out of the crisis definitively, we cannot have growth, investment, produce wealth. A wealth that should be shared fairly to reduce the social inequalities that have increased over the years of the crisis. They chase what they produce from Greek to Halkidiki and Corfu. This is unfortunately confirmed by the continuing decline in forecasts for growth. From 2.4% we reached 1.6% and the fall continues. It is also evidenced by the inability to cope with unemployment. The government shares a stable job in two and plays with the figures to say that it is facing unemployment. So we have now reached a third of the private sector workers working with flexible forms of work and an average salary of EUR 395. So who are you kidding? With the agreements on the unbearable primary surpluses and the impossibility of achieving debt restructuring, they have passed the nest on the neck of the Greek people and the country. What is ultimately the three-year balance of SYRIZA - ANEL? They were lost by the economy of 86 billion euros. Citizens have been cumulated with measures of EUR 18.5 billion. And you give as a social dividend a total of 1.8 billion euros. In other words, in short, every 10 euros paid by the Greek people is paid off at a price of 1 euro. These can't be hidden on any terrain. As long as this government remains, the deadlock will be multiplied. That's why the sooner they leave, the better for the place. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make two more points in connection with the draft law. Label first. The government uses the dividend to cover the damage to PPC. It has led to a deadlock and bankruptcy of PPC. It comes and gives economic breath of 360m euros. It is provocative to present this with the zipper of aid, supposedly, the weakest. Second point. Even more provocative is the fact that the application of judgments by retired people is supposed to provide retired people. The EUR 315 million that the state owes them is owed to pensioners. He doesn't do anything to them at all. A total of 1.5 billion euros were deducted from pensioners by increasing health contributions over this three-year period to give them only a small part back. I am referring to two examples to understand what is going on. First example. Retired with EUR 900 principal pension and EUR 180 as an ancillary payment in favour of EEAS 432 per year, until 30-6-2016. With Mr Tsipras' measures he will now pay EUR 745 annually. With the so-called social dividend he returns to them, he returns to them of EUR 21.6. What's left? The burden remains on this pensioner, who has the name 'SYRIZA - ANEL', and is EUR 291,4 per year. The second example. Retired with EUR 1,300 principal pension and EUR 230 subsidiary paid EUR 624 per year. With Mr. Tsipras' measures he pays 1.041 euros. They pay him 40,32 euros. And he still has a burden of EUR 376,8 a year. That's another truth. Unfortunately, the government is also attempting to mock pensioners. I am therefore tabling a detailed note revealing the entire government's disorientation operation. [[At this point the President of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Fotini (Phot) Gennamata presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Fighting and populism, gentlemen of the government, know it's close to legs. You will see this very quickly in the next national elections, because the condemnation of the Greek people will be irreversible to you. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] As we speak of impunity and the damage by the government, I would also like to refer to the topical issue of the mediators. It is a matter to which our parliamentary representative, Mr Andreas Loverdes, has been mentioned in detail. Impressively it causes, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA - ANEL, your commitment to arms dealers, and not to random, but to imprisoned for smuggling, with whom you and their companies have supposedly signed transnational agreements on arms sales and for which you have despised and prejudiced honest senior officers, who yourself have appointed to be responsible, but of course also diplomats. The issue goes beyond what is known as co-government, and it is all about the entire government, because you are all supporting these choices. Even your newspaper, the Dawn, has rushed to support these terrible manipulations. After all, you let the "Ruvikon" from the Parliament to the Ministry of National Defence and discredit the country internationally that it is a clear vineyard. But the staff of your moral advantage fell. The truth about the manipulations will be revealed and you will give a reason. Ladies and gentlemen, the dividend - to return to the main theme of today's debate - concerns only EUR 720 million. The rest are the obligations of the state, which the budget should cover anyway. If the government wanted to give a real breath with a view to the citizens, then it would have to give the other EUR 675 million with the creative interventions we proposed in the previous period. We have proposed that the private sector should be given a subsidy for the recruitment of unemployed young people, for the reduction of indirect taxes on production, as a priority for tourism, for focusing on wine and, of course, for no children left outside the nursery and childcare facilities, to support new couples. But, unfortunately, you have again refused. Nor did you want to negotiate this with the partners. We were expecting you to at least postpone the increase in VAT on the Aegean islands, which are again affected by the consequences of the increase in migratory flow, but you have not succeeded in doing so either. Ladies and gentlemen, however, the least privileged citizens cannot be deprived of these amounts. For us it is a matter of credibility and consistency. We did this in 2014, when SYRIZA then refused to support it and spoke of mocking. This is what we did in 2016, when the New Democracy voted against this provision after Mr Shoeble's disagreement, I remind you. That is what we will do this year. We understand, of course, why Mr Tsipras was quick to announce last Monday the social dividend. More and more citizens, who experience this unbearable everyday life you have imposed, react. Hundreds of thousands of citizens have turned the polls of the Central Left into the first organized movement, the first organized resistance, reaction to catechism and conservative policies. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Today for us is a new day. From today, with united forces, we create the new political and social current that will change the political connections and change the course of the country, in order to return hope to Greece and dignity to the Greeks and Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u341	Thank you very much. The Minister has the floor, Mr Juliarakis, and then Mr Leventis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u342	Why not now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u343	The Finance Ministers who bring this issue have come in line and speak alternately with the Presidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u344	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u345	Mr. Leventis, please. Come on, Mr. Juliarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u346	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with caution and interest to several points and I think that to a large extent many of the issues that need to be discussed have already been discussed. That is why I will confine myself to a specific issue which I think is still at issue. In recent years, I have heard from the officer-in-Office, but also from a portion of the press, even the so-called approved type, the accusation that the government - and in particular the Ministry of Finance - is exaggerating with a view to the great surpluses in order to share dividends and thus sustain an electoral clientele. This position, in particular the Officerial Response, has three parts: firstly, the Government systematically seeks to overcome the budgetary objectives. Secondly, overcoming the budget is a result of overtaxation. Thirdly, the Government exercises social policy with one-off allowances, without institutional and permanent reinforcement of the relevant welfare budgets. The same thing we heard about 20 minutes ago by Mr Mitsotakis. None of these three positions is true. No one is real and I would like to comment carefully on them one by one. Firstly, overcoming the budgetary objective - I say it explicitly once again - is not a government's choice. It's not the government's pursuit. Both the 2017 budget and the 2016 budget provided for achievement rather than exceeding the target. Excession of the objective, especially for tax revenue, depends first of all on the objective itself and on what performance a new tax measure will have, for example, or the change in value added tax rates to consumption and tax evasion, therefore on tax revenues - it is primarily the case at issue in the negotiations. As you know, the institutions are very conservative in their assessments. You know it firsthand, from the negotiation you made by December 2014. Unfortunately, we don't negotiate on our own. We are negotiating with four institutions, therefore with nineteen Member States - members of the euro area and obviously our own assessments, our objectives are not the ones that are always integrated into the budget. Naturally enough - but not all - of the failures of the institutions in the framework of the 2016 budget, last year, were corrected and incorporated into the 2017 basic scenario, but were not eliminated. This is a key source of overcoming the budget targets. Secondly, it is because of the fact that for those who are aware - and from the point of view of Officerial Response, only one knows and is missing today, Mr Stagioras - fiscal policy is not being applied in the space. It is not a playstation exercise. It is practiced in real time and is therefore carried out in an environment of uncertainty, which is especially intensified when the economy is changing. When a new budgetary measure is therefore planned and quantified, the method of quantified is based on the behaviour of households and businesses in previous years. I return to the previous example. If VAT is increased to a given product or service by one percentage point, how much will consumption decrease, how much will tax evasion increase and thus how much revenues, is an estimate made on the basis of the experience of 2015, 2014, 2013 and goes by saying. The fact that we have exceeded the objectives based on the experience of previous years is a sign of success and not a divergence from the objectives, in the sense that the main parameters of the economy, such as the collection and reduction of the paradox, are in the right direction. That's what's going on overruns. In response to the Chief of Officerial Response, I will say that we did not seek to overcome it. It wasn't our goal, we didn't want it. However, overcoming the budgetary targets for all three years -2015, 2016, 2017 - has gradually contributed to the consolidation of budgetary credibility and to the instability of the belief that Greek democracy is leaving behind a long period of irresponsible management of public finances and entering a new that combines budgetary equilibrium with social justice and serves the principles of the rule of law. More specifically, it was this excess that led for the first time in 2017 to achieve a general government surplus - for the first time since the Migration - and accelerated the country's exit from the excessive deficit procedure. It was the one that led to the country's economic prospects being upgraded by all credit rating agencies and to the re-borrowing from international markets in July 2017. I will now come to the second point, to the second - if you will - position of Officers: overrun 2017 is a product of overtaxation. Nothing is as far from the truth as this position is. And here, things are really very simple. Unfortunately, for the 2017 budget, the overall return on tax revenue is below the target by about EUR 1 billion. It has not, therefore, contributed to overcoming it. It did not contribute to overcoming the overdue public debts that were reduced by one billion and did not increase, but even if they had increased, they would worsen and would not improve the financial result. Ask Mr. Stakoura again, who seems to be the only one who, due to experience, understands public finances from the Civic Opposition. Thirdly, the main sources of surplus production were two: firstly, the significant improvement in the results of the Social Security Institutions, both on the revenue side - and there the main power, the main source of a better result was the significant reduction in unemployment, we can, if you like, discuss how well-paid the positions are and whether the quality of the jobs need to be improved, but the result is that insurance contributions have increased significantly - and on the expenditure side with an important work to clear new pensions that the Ministry of Labour has recently done, but also from the regular budget with the retention of expenditure where this was possible. Of course not from overtax. Third position of the New Democracy: Distribution of the dividend is a substitute for systematic and permanent protection of vulnerable households. Once again this position could not be any more than the reality. In 2016, the pilot phase of social solidarity income was successfully completed and in 2017 it is fully implemented throughout the country with a budget of 700 million euros. It did not exist before 2015. In 2018 and as a result of the social expenditure review - not the increase in taxes, but the review of the expenditure that the New Democracy invokes and says it will do, while for many years in the government it has not dared to do - we have secured 300 million to support family allowances of EUR 160 million and therefore to combat child poverty, school meals for an additional EUR 50 million and to fight child poverty again and, respectively, to broaden the action of daycare stations. These are interventions, permanent interventions against and poverty, as well as support for the formation of human capital. Obviously in 2019, from the next budget, we legislate and have already legislated for an additional 1.8 billion euros. I now come to the social dividend to say that it is obviously not the flagship of social policy - it is the social income of solidarity, it is the intervention of family benefits and the fight against child poverty - but it is an important tool. This is also an important tool. It covers 32% of the country's population, i.e. 1.4 million households. I would remind you that the social income of solidarity only covers 7%. It therefore covers a wide range of income poverty and reaches the limit of households experiencing social exclusion, i.e. 35.6% of the Greek population on the basis of ELSTAT's latest data. As a result of this action alone, which - I repeat - is not the flagship, but is a useful tool for supporting vulnerable households, the general poverty index will be reduced at the end of 2017, compared with 2016, by 1,4 percentage points. Economic inequality will be reduced. Finally, I'd like to make a reference to what I heard from the Chief of Police, that we got five and gave one. I would like to ask honestly whether they have any other way of making a financial adjustment, that is, to put public finances in order. I say this because in the four years 2010-2014 the main pillar of fiscal adjustment was the great increase in taxes. In 2010 a new revenue tax scale of EUR 900 million, VAT from 21% to 23% with revenues of EUR 790 million, excise duties on fuels of 1,6 billion, cigarettes of 600 million, a solidarity contribution of 1,3 billion, ENPH 3 billion, a reduction in duty from 2012 extra 3 billion, an increase in living evidence of an additional 220 million, a tax reform of 1,1 billion in 2014. I could say a lot about how the financial adjustment took place between 2010 and 2014, about how the burden of adjustment was shared between the social strata, but I will say only one: that is, while we are not honest and not telling the truth in the House, the more we reproduce the logic that there are easy solutions, the more we reproduce - if you like - the populist narratives, the more we strengthen the extreme voices that do not give any credibility to the parties of the Greek Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u347	Thank you very much, Mr. Juliaraki. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and three teachers attending the 4th Komotini High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Silence, please, because we have a time pressure, you understand. There have been nine of the speakers, three or four of the Members of Parliament, even though they have reduced their time. The Prime Minister will also speak. Mr Leventis, President-in-Office of the Council, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u348	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister is not present at a meeting which at least had to be present because he is calling for the vote of all the other parties. I think he should be present. We are, of course, giving him the vote, even if they are absent. But I will explain why we offer it. Not for Mr. Tsipras. We offer her the victims of the tragedy we have experienced. I doubt whether these victims will be restored. For example, I was the other day in a debate and I asked how many people have been compensated for the pollution of the Argosaronian and said: 'Even anyone'. I have asked in person whether one of the pollution has been compensated and said: 'No one in charge'. It's been - I think several weeks. So the Prime Minister should be here, especially when calling for the vote of others. Let him hold meetings with Mr. Kammenos with a hundred and fifty three, vote, not to employ the other wings. In any case, do we understand what happened in Mandra, in New Peramos? There was a project costing 11 million euros. Mrs. Duru had it in time. This work was not done, resulting in them being murdered - because murder is when you do not do such a project - twenty people and now pay about 400 million. That's how much the bill will come for a case of 11 million. Now, SYRIZA's permanent incubation is that the New Democracy did the same. Of course, he did the same, but is that a solution? The other good alibi you have is that it was an extreme weather phenomenon. So the mayors, the governments in general, we're electing their district managers for moderate weather phenomena? Is God in extremity? But the fires did the same. If six fire planes had been bought, we'd have escaped. Now we're gonna pay a price for sixty fire-fighting planes. It's a solution, you know, to rush the House to alleviate suffering and suffering. We now offer relief, a thousand euros, five thousand euros. It's a relief. Because we can't offer politics, we offer relief. Because we cannot solve problems, we are going to relief, i.e. Panadol. 'Panadol' is currently voting for the House, a painkiller. You'll tell me, what else can he do? Leaving people? Of course not. But if the Minister for the Interior dives the mayors, see what works are pending and handed them, neither did the Prime Minister. Before speaking, I received from Arta, from the Prime Minister, the place was supposed to be a warning - we had learned from his father that he was from Arta - from the district of Kompotio municipality of the Municipality of Nikolaos Skoufas. I got a warning - if you can see it in the photos - in the form of an extrajudicial. Where's the camera? Is there a camera that magnifies it? I wish there was such a camera.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u349	There are everywhere, unfortunately, everywhere. We see everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u350	I will give it to the Minutes, because I have lost my contact with the Prime Minister, I have lost my contact with everyone in this Chamber. Therefore, I hand over the work that needs to be done here and which, if not done, we will mourn others. [[At this point, the President of the Union of Centres, Mr Vassilis Leventis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It's not just New Peramos. It's Arta. In New Peramos, even that the Prime Minister didn't know them, he was broke from there. Not even Arta, though? Is she gonna say the same thing there? It's clear. Before a sergeant speaks with pictures of the work to be done. But here I'm asking something else: there's going to be some government to pick up the factors, see the loose ends, see what's got to be done, or we're going out of an accident, and we're going to say that the weather is to blame. "Come on, weather is to blame, extremes. It was extreme weather conditions." I don't understand what kind of alibi is what you're looking for in weather conditions. I mean, if tomorrow breaks out in here, we're all gonna die. There is no state, there is no government, there is nothing. As far as the mayors are concerned, can I say what they're doing? The mayors, if there's a penny, hire for the votes of municipal officials. They don't take a machine, they don't hold a serious meeting on how to deal with the crisis in the case of fire, earthquake, flood, emergency. Mayors arrange for the second Sunday to vote for New Democracy, New Democracy, to come out like this. We're telling you the truth, I think. There was a mayor in Kallithea who was not a bad man. It had come out four, five years. And I met him when I first met in Kallithea. I say to him ‘How do you manage and go out for four, five years?’. He tells me: "I'm left, JRC. We put on the PASOK rival. The New Democracy does not enter the Twin on the second Sunday and vote on the JRC". That's a nice bucket, smart, wicked bucket!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u351	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u352	So when it's so easy to become a mayor, why offer work, why look at how many will they drown? Mrs. Durou went to the prosecutor - I like her when she came to my office, convinced me she was interested in the region's problems - to see who's to blame. Really, when there's a flood in an area that doesn't work anything and die and twenty people are looking elsewhere for those in charge? Can't he look at his office a little bit? Where's he looking? I'm asking Mrs. Duru. Where is he looking for those responsible? In the kiosks of the constitution, where we buy cigarettes? Is that where he's looking for them? Where's he looking for them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u353	The ones who got the streams in.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u354	To close this issue, we will vote for these relief works, but we are becoming accomplices to wrong policy. I did not vote for this 'bonama' last year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u355	You were wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u356	Let it go if I was wrong. If I was wrong or right, the story would be judged, not you. I did not vote for the bonus, precisely to force the government to change policy. But the government doesn't change politics. Inertia, odourism, "you're not bored", etc., and we're back to share bonamies. Instead of sharing tips that reduce the dignity of the Greek citizen, we could invest, Greece could become a developed country or developing country with a new income. And not 500 euros, Mr Tsipras, and two and three grand we could give the poor, if we had a development policy, while you are looking for a tax-payer policy and maybe we can create an excess. Since 2009, this has been a mistake. We have lost our 'game' of development, we have had no way, because they were the governments that were vulnerable, prepared. Why would who come to invest in a country that is ready? We have lost the "date" of growth and only the date left to cut pensions, wages and tax. And Mr Tsipras says that, 'then', he says, 'the surplus'. In other words, we have lost the "treno" of growth. It's over, 'the camel's down', but it invented other solutions. Put taxes on them - and the Turks were taxing - and cut pensions and wages. It's an easy solution! Here it comes today to the Prime Minister's self-consciousness that this policy has an excess. Well, go on with it. They said that in June 2017 PPC would go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u357	Come in. KISILIS LEVENTIS (Chairman of the Union of Central Banks)Presented, PPC did not go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u358	Mr. Balaura, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u359	One of her factories, however, has already been demolished. You know that, a factory that'slashed'. One is that. And secondly, it's the tails at PPC, Mr. Tsipras. I pass through the PPC of Kallithea and as if it were PPC of Refugees, such as foreigners in Petros Rallie. It's PPC. We've come to PPC to have tails. And I come down and say to him 'what do you want?' It says: 'Confidence'. I say: 'How much do you owe?' It says: 'EUR 300'. I say to him: 'How much do you want?'. It says: 'up to 20-30 euros I can give'. There we arrived, Mr. Tsipras, in your "developed" Greece! We have the issue of 'Rubicon'. You will allow me to speak a little bit about this. Why did Mr. Voutsis, when the rubicians entered the House, order them to be released? Why is the violence that the rubicians have is sweet? Is their violence good? So, we're counting on violence? We do dosage, like antibiotics, how many milligrams are we gonna put? Is that what violence is? Now they're in ministries. Tomorrow they may enter our office. He says 'they don't kill people'. So, when they break offices, when they do material damage, that doesn't constitute violence? Are we counting violence? What perceptions are these?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u360	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u361	They're - they say - activists. I hope that they're SYRIZA's activists. As far as Skopje is concerned, I have been asking for a long time to leave the Foreign Ministry's website the name 'Nova Macedonia'. Since we are in a negotiation, why do we, unsuccessfully, accept Nova Macedonia? Is there any chance that they will retreat, since we propose that the Macedonian term should be included? I've asked the Prime Minister and the Minister for this. What's his name? - Kojia. Remove it after you make a deal. Unless you're making a negotiations unscrupulous. When we're in a negotiation, let's respect it. There's a people in Northern Greece. You can't underestimate him. You also underestimated in a vote twenty days ago the Church. I am neither suitable nor worthy to represent the Church, but you have spoken with great despair against the Church, as if after you put the Church aside, you have won. It's not like that. All the leaders of the Centre, Plastiras, George Papandreou, George Black, took the view of the Church very seriously. This mistake you committed, to address the Church as if it were one, will cost you, gentlemen of SYRIZA! The Church doesn't want to get involved. He wants to have an opinion, an opinion, and don't listen to it. But it's not a way to behave. The pious world has it. And if you're disrespectful, it's yours. And ungodly to be - Kruchev didn't put a cross on his grave - your choice is. But respect that there is a social majority that thinks differently. Respect a little. And respect that you have legislated for 15-year-olds, without studying either scientifically or in any other way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u362	Mr President, please conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u363	The Centroon Union clearly promises to listen to the entire Greek people. For my speech, Mr President, I do less for this Chamber and more for the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u364	We said about "Rubicon", about FYROM, about the Church, please summarize to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u365	My commitment is to cancel this law. I too am interested in protecting these people. But not by that way. You look hated toward the Church. And at this point I am not voting. But I'll tell you something.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u366	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u367	Didn't you vote when you said you were tearing up memos? Leave the ballots. You should be ashamed of yourself! There is no one who voted more than you in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u368	What you're saying is unchristian!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u369	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u370	Anyway, Mr Balafa, and you're my colleague. When you went to Stepma, did I ever interrupt you, Mr Balafa? That's the spirit you represent!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u371	Please be quiet and close, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u372	You're out of the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u373	And what's our point? Give the tip, the 500 euros, which you also give in a family way. Last year you give them as an individual gift. Now you've given it as a family to gather in a house and not take it. You've been very smart. I want to see from the 3.4 million that you initially said they'd get the dividend, - you'll see - how many people will get it at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u374	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u375	She was very intelligent to put this on the family portions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u376	Graphics doesn't sell!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u377	Mr. Balafa, I have not interrupted you. I don't know what you represent. What do you want, riots? You said the troubles in the Chamber are from the Golden Dawn, but now other roles are taking place. And good for you. The Left has its own. The left is you, for fortunately, there are even more genuine. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u378	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u379	You did something else for the dividend. You have to make a statement to ask for it, as if you had to be registered at the poor house. You know, when you make a statement, you plead poor and ask for state support. What you did is the official poor house. I won't say any more. I thank the Prime Minister for half my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u380	Three quarters.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u381	Were you all there? Oh, I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u382	As soon as you asked him, he rushed and came. Thank you very much. Mr Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my position on the question of immediately dealing with the consequences of the tragedy in Western Attica, which has cost us twenty people our lives, and unfortunately they are still two people who are still missing. There is no doubt that this is an unprecedented disaster that was caused, as the scientists with whom I spoke with, by an extremely extreme weather phenomenon. Some speak of a frequency that exceeds a hundred years. But I don't want to get into this. However, this extreme weather phenomenon, however extreme it is, has in the most tragic way highlighted the criminal and unforgivable political choices of decades in the field of building and planning. Because, when for decades of no concern to nature, it comes sometime that day when nature is avenged. And the price in this case is great, the pain is deep. The images I saw last Thursday - and all the Greeks have seen from television receivers - are shocking. So our commitment to stand directly with the people affected, I believe, today is a priority and a debt. This morning we announced a series of relief measures for the affected. In addition to the anticipated compensation for homes and businesses which have suffered damages, we have also distributed an exceptional aid amounting to EUR 5 000 for each household which has been affected and EUR 8 000 for each operation. The payment of this money will be made immediately, in the next few days, probably even in this week, and of course these amounts will be duty-free and irresponsible. At the same time, on the part of the Ministry of Civil Protection, action has already been taken both to increase security measures in the region and to facilitate citizens, who have lost their identities and other documents very useful to them. This is why the police presence in the affected areas has increased since the first moment, with more than a thousand two hundred men and women of the Greek Police, and since this morning in Mandra the office responsible for issuing ID cards and documents has been operating so that people can quickly complete the procedures laid down by law for compensation. A package of measures was announced by the Ministry of Labour with regard to the professionals and firms affected, including the six-month suspension of payment of insurance contributions. In addition, the Ministry of Finance was granted an extension of the deadline for the submission of declarations and payments of taxes and contributions, fees, as well as an extension and suspension of the payment of certified debts due to the natural disaster. Also, the Ministry of Health announced yesterday that since today, a special medical office will operate in Mandra, in order to meet the increased needs of the inhabitants of the wider region. However, in addition to all these measures to support the affected, measures to cover and all the areas recently affected by flooding phenomena, the most critical, in my opinion, is to design the necessary projects to strengthen flood protection not only in the affected areas. Because we are all aware that the unregulated construction, the absence of spatial planning is not only about the area affected, but about almost all of Attica, but also about many areas outside Attica throughout the country. And, of course, I believe that this is primarily a matter of political will and of a secondary administrative nature, since we all know that these necessary projects are not a front-line project, they are not projects in which the mayors have ribbons or have them presented with a special commitment to the citizens just before the elections, but projects that will help us in the future at least to avoid such situations as those we have experienced in the past days. But it is indeed glorious and disgraceful, I would say, on pain and destruction, that some are trying to extract political added value. And I say this, because once again those who spoke, mainly from the Civilian Representation Party, did not show any grief at all. I have heard Mr Mitsotakis say from one day of the disaster that time-consuming crimes have taken place in the West Attica and that twenty-four hours will not pass, and he himself somewhere away from Attica, at a political event in Larissa, to forget the word he himself declared on the previous day, the word 'temporary', and to find the occasion once again to attack the government and the District Minister. I would obviously say once again that the Tempus that defines in the opposition tactics of the New Democracy extremist voices and media that, depending on their headlines, also form the political rhetoric of the party leader and his representatives. I have heard many of this today from the parties that have been responsible for this country's governance since 1974, but also before, as a descendant of the ruling factions, to represent the honourers. And I wonder where you have been all over the past few years, the years when the streams, which were built arbitrarily by Attica, the years when your governments made symptoms to your mayors, who have even been municipal facilities - see good time the train station on the stream - planted on the river beds and on the streams, without any concern for the natural environment, without any concern for the safety of citizens, with the lack of spatial planning and with the sole care of maintaining the electoral clientele and services. Where have you been? Unless you say that all these bad texts have happened for the last two and a half years that SYRIZA has been running. So I would say that at least some would stop provoking and showing the necessary respect for the people who have been lost and who have actually paid for the broken and passionate decades. In less than two and a half years - to give an answer to what has been said here about inertia and indifference - what has our government done, despite what has been known as suffocating budgetary conditions? Only from the national part of the Public Investment Programme, we have incorporated new anti-memorandum projects of 250m euros. That is why we increased the Public Investment Programme this year to EUR 1 billion for the first time in the crisis, and all the previous years you have reduced it. Our government has approved all the demands for anti-military works by the institutions of government, without, of course, distinguishing who are friendly to the government and who have been supported by the Civilian Vice-Presidents' Party. The majority of the mayors, to whom works and requests for anti-military protection projects have been approved, come from and have been supported by the Anti-Population Party. That is why, in the Regional Conferences, not only do they defy the debate but also, where they have to criticise, they have to pay tribute, they say thank you, and above all, as far as the flooding works are concerned. Your self-government! In addition to national resources and the new ESDP, anti-military projects worth EUR 172 million are currently being implemented. You'll tell me "Is there a lot? " More needs to be done. It's not much. Comparing, however, with the seven years 2007-2013, where only EUR 162 million were implemented. In seven years, 162 million euros have been made, and in these two and a half years projects worth 172 million euros have already been implemented, that is, we have exceeded what you have done in the seventeen years. Despite this effort and the activation of available resources, there is no doubt that the needs are multiple. And how should it not be, when we have had this arbitrariness for decades, the splitting up of valuable funds into screenworks. Of course, I heard the convenience with which you blame the District Director of Attica, obviously, because he had the misfortune to be elected with SYRIZA. Apparently, I'm not here to defend the Attica Region. It has the ability to do so on its own, the Regional Authority and the Region as an institution. What I would like to table in our debate today, however, is that in September 2014, the Attica Region had in its budget ninety-five anti-military projects totalling EUR 100 million. Today, we have a hundred and fifty-two projects in the budget of the overall budget of EUR 485 million. As far as Western Attica was concerned, in 2014 only 12 projects were included 11 million. Today, there are twenty projects of 57 million. Of course, I am referring, ladies and gentlemen, to a logic which he wanted to incorporate in the MAGPs a window program. Because in 2014, the vast majority of the entrants - and this is not only about the Attica region - said that it may be about the majority of the self-government - were about front works in the center of Athens. It could be useful. Could be the major refreshment of the University. However, anti-military works, because of this distortion, in my view, have been circumvented. So I heard Mr. Mitsotakis today. Indeed, I had a very long question. You know, in every natural disaster, in every accident and not just, at every opportunity - I would say - Mr Mitsotakis does one thing: he asks for the resignation of a minister. He has left no Minister who has not asked for resignation. He's asked for Mr. Toska's resignation. He must be his favorite. She's asked for her more than five times. He has asked for the resignation of Mr. Papa, Mr. Kammenos, Mr. Gavroglou, Mr. Skourletis, Mr. Tsakalotou, Mr. Kourublis. Perhaps it's bigger than the number of ministers. I was wondering, when the great disaster occurred, and of course, after the first surprise, which lasted twenty-four hours, of the rational attitude of how and not asking for resignation. But he came today to ask for the resignation of the District Commissioner.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u384	That was not the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u385	He said so a little earlier than this Step, even referring to statements from her own that she would go home, which I doubt she did and how she did them. I would therefore like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that in my assessment of this tactic, you are constantly caught by natural disasters, by natural disasters, by natural disasters, by major accidents and constantly investing in a disastrous disastrous reason, I think it is something that the majority of citizens - I have - will not appreciate it positively. And in any case, that's your problem. The problem with political life, however, is that we have an opposition that until yesterday made an opposition to fire and disaster, nowadays also has a opposition to the flood and destruction. We, however, have to defy this fact and look forward to dealing with the problems both with the need for the country to leave this long-standing crisis, but also with the need to leave behind the sufferings of the past. So, as far as the need for a comprehensive national plan is concerned, we are planning a five-year, long-term intervention of counter-mutual protection with the use of national funds, as well as the cooperation of the European Investment Bank, a total budget of EUR 5 billion over a five-year period. That is why I had the opportunity to have a private conversation with President Juncker immediately after the incident. After all, we have contacted the competent Commissioners to see how the European Union can help and support these efforts. I wonder if, in the face of this good practice, does the President of the New Democracy make any sense to communicate with whom? With Mr. Webber. The head of the European People's Party in the European Parliament, to ask for assistance for Greece. To communicate with who? With the man who, at the most critical times, was the most protagonist and fanatical supporter of the catastrophe in Greece, the exit from the euro, the punishment of the Greek people and the imposition of cruel austerity! He called Mr. Webber to save us! But let it be. So I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we need deep areas in the institutional framework, as well as bureaucracy, which has been structured for decades, but also planning to draw up the necessary funds so that we can fortify the country and never again live a disaster like the one we have lived in the past days. However, if the natural disaster, ladies and gentlemen, is an unstable event, the social catastrophe that has caused in the past seven years to impose tough austerity measures at the place, is not an unstable event. And precisely because it is not natural legality to continue and perpetuate the cruel austerity, we are here today to discuss the possibility of significant breath in those social categories, which have suffered most of the weight, the unjust burden during the crisis. Today, then, we are at a time when precisely because the economy is recovering, there is this possibility and, of course, this is the result of hard work and effort and sacrifices on the part of the Greek people. Today, then, the country is recovering. All indicators are on a positive recovery course. The economy is expected to record for the first time, after almost a decade, growth close to 2%. Unemployment for a third consecutive year deviates, having dropped overall by seven percentage points over a three-year period. About three hundred thousand more jobs have been created. On the budgetary side, the performance of the economy has exceeded the most optimistic predictions. So the budget will record a primary surplus this year, which will far exceed the target of 1.75%. Since last July, the country has recovered access to the first-stage markets, with much more favourable conditions than the exit - fireworks in 2014, while the moment we are talking about is under way and a second exit to the markets - it is a bond exchange - so that the debt profile becomes attractive to investors in view of the definitive return to the markets in September 2018. We are therefore moving forward with a plan, with careful steps forward, to complete the project not with communication pirates, as Mr Samaras' government did in 2014, when it had directed this poorly-known success story. It is for this very reason that international rating agencies are constantly increasing the prospects and positions of the Greek economy. These are signs that demonstrate that the country is moving in a firm and sure way towards the exit from the memorials and the suffocating commission that was imposed on it and that in August 2018 we will be able to feed the fruits of the efforts that we have made since January 2015. This perspective is now beginning to expand our potential to move on to our main aim from the day we were in the position of the government, namely through the recovery of the economy gradually restoring the injustices caused by aggressive austerity in the years of the crisis. Both last year and this year the yield to the citizens who really need the so-called over-performance, i.e. the extra target of surpluses, which will eventually be recorded, is practically showing our direction and strategic targets. Last year, an amount of around 617 million euros, this year 1.4 billion. Cumulative is a sum exceeding EUR 2 billion. No one would say it and crumbs or tips, as I heard from some people who went up to this Step. The return of the social dividend this year, as well as the support for low pensioners last year, I would say that it is a very important act of justice, a concept which has been violated in the years of the crisis and which proves what you are constantly accusing us of, that is, the social bias of SYRIZA in favour of many, in favour of the weak. I have the impression, however, that I have heard these days that, while some three and a half million fellow citizens have been pleased to hear that they are beneficiaries of the dividend or the reimbursement of the pension withheld, there are some who have been very sad. They are very sad that the economy is recovering and enabling us to support the weakest. Of course, like last year, some of the pilots put on board this year. Last year, of course, you did not keep in mind: you voted against, you denounced us in the institutions, your Chief went on journeys to Berlin to meet Mr. Soible and said that the emergency aid jeopardises the great sacrifices of Greek citizens. This year's truth is that you're a little more careful. After your hopes have been evacuated by the institutions for prohibiting the distribution of dividends - and you have had great hopes, as shown by the newspaper headlines - you have followed the degradation strategy: you are voting, so that you do not press it like last year, but you tell us that over-performance is not the result, as the word says, of the positive performance of the Greek economy, but it is the result of tax-paying. Yes, sir! So let's see what the result is. Because sometimes - you know - it's challenging to shake our fingers off some who aren't responsibilities. And very recently - the Greek people are not so easily forgotten - you have been in these chairs here. From 2010 to January 2015 you ruled. You have today made your abstentions on the tax raid, as you say, but you want the Greek people to forget that from 2010 to January 2015 you have taken measures totalling 65 million, of which 30 billion - as 35 billion were expenditure - were taxes! You took these measures. You imposed 30 billion taxes on the Greek people. You who have today taken the sword and bail against excessive taxation, having the nerve - some of you - to go out to the media as well and to justify those who made their money abroad with off-shore, because of excessive taxation. And you don't tell the Greek people that this is the other side of the coin. That the real reason for the big tax is that for decades and especially in the years of the crisis some wicked and wicked were making their money out. And you are talking about high taxation, as if we forget that you brought HNPH, you brought the solidarity levy, the trade fee, 30 billion taxes. Don't list them. But that is not the point today. The question is: Bring 30 billion taxes between 2010 and 2015. But why didn't you manage to get a positive return, but your governments, not only, were not turning the economy around to positive growth, but they caught some crazy numbers in the recession? With 30 billion taxes, you are constantly accusing us, who have indeed been forced into a much softer fiscal adjustment, in terms of taxation, close to 3% of GDP, which is incomparable. However, I do not want here to claim what is best and who did it better than negotiating and imposing policies, which we all know in this Chamber that it is not fair for anyone to impose them. The question is: You with 30 billion taxes, which you are now playing defenders of the idea that taxation must be reduced, why did you not achieve anything? Why didn't you have a surplus? Why didn't you have an over-performance? And not only that, but you have had a recession of 7%, you have had agreements on surpluses of 4% and 4.5%, and you have certainly increased unemployment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u386	Lies!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u387	Mr Brutsis, you here are saying "fakes, lies", to compare the sizes of the unemployed that you brought to Greek society, to what our government and Mrs Ahtsoglou have brought. If you have the courage, compare! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So, ladies and gentlemen, we have a crucial question, which, today, I want to answer: is it, as a result of this over-taxation, that over-performance of the Greek economy over two consecutive years? And I think that's something we need to answer to the Greek people. We have a three-year fiscal adjustment much milder, which is, obviously, not because of overtaxation, but because of an increase in employment, with unemployment being at 20%, which we received at 26.5% and for the first time after the crisis, we have less than a million unemployed - because of the balance of the insurance system, because of the fight against tax evasion and, of course, because we have saved some EUR 20 billion from the renegotiation of the surpluses. Let us not forget, it may be a high 3.5% - there is no doubt - but what you had decided was 4% and 4.5%, and even the years that the economy has exceeded. Last year, we had a target of 0.5%. If we'd stayed with you, we'd have a target of 1.5%. Today we had a target of 1.75%. If we'd stayed with you, we'd have had a target of over 3%. So here's why! And where would the space be for over-performance? So you dare talk about overtaxation. I also watch the media attack with fake evidence. And what don't they say? They say we have surpluses and dividends, because we supposedly cut health expenditure, and for the first time in the country, after ten years, they open up instead of closing hospitals, they are recruited by nurses and other personnel. We also hear that we have allegedly made a stop to pension payments and to one-off, while you know very well that we have moved forward not only five hundred and twenty thousand pensions - gentlemen, subsidiary and one-off - but also for the first time, for the first time, reduced the stock that was created in the period 2010-2014. We are also told that this surplus has emerged from the non-implementation of the Public Investment Programme. But here, it seems that besides liars you are also unrelated, if you say that, because the Public Investment Program this year is financially neutral, as inputs and outputs have no effect. Let us make it clear, then, that the primary surplus is not made with terrain. These practices may have been past practices. Today it's over. And, of course, if you want to ask the institutions and Europe to do so, you have done so before. I hear you are sending friends and advisors abroad in order to make the so-called "bitching", i.e. to defame the course of the Greek economy. You won't make it any more than you do. The accident may be for you is that instead of being dangerous to the country, rather - and this is the biggest accident - you become graphics. Ladies and gentlemen, our country has managed to reduce unemployment by two and a half points in a year, and it has managed its insurance funds where they owed 1 billion to have 90 million surpluses. It has managed to achieve successes - perhaps not the ones we would like, but important successes - in the fight against tax evasion. For example, so far with the voluntary disclosure tax, 6.6 billion euros have been declared, 598 million euros have been taxed and 208 million euros have been entered into the public funds. This EUR 208 million is part of what will be given to the weakest. This EUR 208 million would not only have been found if you were still in things, but would have lost so much, because you think tax evasion is both legal and moral! That's our difference! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So here's why we're overreacting, that's why we're getting where you failed. However, I would also like to make a reference to the continuing invoicing on the part of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis that if he were, he says, the New Democracy in the government would reduce taxes. Yes, sir. It's a very interesting placement. However, since we all know the arithmetic, algorithm, the equation of the programmes, the obligation of the country for specific budgetary objectives, when you say something to the Greek people - let us forget what you have done when you have ruled, let us zero it all, you have an obligation to explain that, not only do you have to say things which obviously sound good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u388	And you answered!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u389	Look, I will answer your question, although I will be criticised by the President of Parliament that I am having a dialogue. Whether we conflicted, in order that what we told the Greek people to do was to do so, life itself and in the semester, when we conflicted and you said "sign, go to the rocks". [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] To end this story, you who do not have the courage to go out and say 'we will clash and renegotiate the agreement', tell us how you will bring it, because your Chief of Staff goes abroad, meets the Commissioners - and he does - and speaks and speaks to the European People's Party, but he does not say a single word about questioning the agreement and the programme that we are implementing. Are you questioning the program? Can you go out and tell the Greek people and our partners that you want to become a government to overthrow the program? Why don't you say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u390	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u391	Oh, you're not talking about it! Well, good, then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u392	Be quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u393	Measures of 12 billion euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u394	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u395	So if you don't tell us where you're going to find the possibility of lowering taxes? Let me tell you where you'll find? If you have ever attempted this, you would have launched a huge pogrom to reduce the costs where you know they are absolutely inappropriate, in public health, in education, in social protection, in wages and in pensions. You know, the biggest populism is to put into practice what you're supposed to do. You smuggle populism, but since you do not say that you would ever bring a better deal, you have to go out and tell the Greek people that every euro tax you say you will reduce, it will be a reduction in pensions, a reduction in wages, a cut in schools, a closure of hospitals, will be fewer doctors in public hospitals. That's the truth. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that today we have the opportunity to take a step, an important step forward. And I believe that this step is already being assessed, especially by the Greek people, by those who know to appreciate, by the large majority who has been severely looted all the previous years and recognises that this government has fought and strived to get the country out of the crisis by supporting them, and whatever potential it has, any margin it has for them to redistribute. I believe, therefore, that we are moving towards a movement of social justice, and I understand, of course, that this movement of social justice is convenient for people to read it as a communal trick. However, if it is a trick, that will be said by the citizens, ladies and gentlemen, who in December 2017 - in the first days and certainly by mid-December - will receive an aid that is important to them. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] I understand, of course, that some 'purpose-borns' do not know and cannot understand what this aid means to these people. Some here, from this step forward, called it "flying", called it "little", an aid of 500, 700 or 900 euros. Perhaps for these "purple-borns" so much to cost the maps for offshore that they keep on the paradise islands. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But today it is time for the large social majority to come to the fore. And the great social majority will come to the fore, we will be able to pull the country out of the crisis by keeping those who have been most hurt. For them, there is this great party, the left party that is next to the working people, next to the low-wages, next to the low-wage people. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We represent them, they brought us here. We're fighting for them, we're bleeding, and we're gonna make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u396	Now Mr Tsiaras will be given the floor from New Democracy and the Greeks will be followed by the President of the Independents. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and students and three educational sessions from the 10th General School of Larissa. The House welcomes the compatriots. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Chiara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u397	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my brief speech with the thought of all these people who have seen lives of their own being lost in recent years, who have seen property sinking into the mud and a reality they have been living up to at that point in a few hours' time. I think it is a duty for all of us here, regardless of any political controversy - and I think it has been stressed by the New Democracy - when there are such events, to prove also the responsibility, but much more the capacity of the state, through whatever expression it has, to stand up to these people. I have the privilege of following the debate in plenary since the morning and I do not hide it from you that I have been really anxious to hear the Prime Minister in particular about what he himself would claim in this debate specifically on matters relating to any responsibilities that may be shared by the government at this time, but much more about the way in which the New Democracy was seriously and responsibly opposed to this disaster. I heard the incredible today. The Prime Minister has called on the New Democracy for populism! It really is not to wonder, but to wonder if what we are living for is real or something that belongs to the sphere of dream or to the sphere and to another reality. I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because, of course, the Prime Minister may have claimed what he wanted, he may have regained the weight of the governments of the past, but he obviously forgot, as the honourable ministers have forgotten, and perhaps you, ladies and gentlemen, were also elected to vote by saying exactly the opposite of what you have done and that you made promises that have never met with reality. And if, in any case, all this can be overcome with such ease, at some point, you should know that, over time, there is always the undisputed judgment of the citizens. That is something that we will see very soon in front of us. You must finally understand that you are the government, you are not the opposition. Turning back and saying that it is all about the past, without taking on the part of your responsibility, I think that it does not look forward to any price or much more consistent liability for the moment that our country is in, for the moment that so many events exist and are evolving around us. I say all this because, from where someone tries to approach, especially, the speech of the Prime Minister, it will eventually come to the conclusion that she had to say a line at the end, once again putting the ball in the platform and justify why all that has been done in Mandra and in other parts of Greece, obviously have the absence of the government, without of course recognising her own responsibility, but much more to highlight the fact that the social dividend as a debate and as a reality, as it is this year, has too many gaps and many issues. Of course, I will try, I will try to tell you that, in the end, life itself determines it. A few days ago the social benefit bill came as an overly urgent one. In fact, there was a debate that absolutely needed to be voted on the next day. Eventually, the ultra-urban bill came to be voted on five days later. And, of the miracle, even the legislative improvements, which were supposed to be given the next day, came only three hours earlier to be presented to the House of the Greek Parliament, as well as the amendment by which colleagues in the Co-Police adopt the way in which compensation is given. Welcome to all of this. Luckily, they're coming. Of course, all the points were made earlier by the relevant Scientific Service of the House, which said that there were no criteria. The criteria have literally brought them to nothing but five. We have adopted the amendment and voted on it. But, ladies and gentlemen, you must know that a hundred and two businesses in Skopelos have been waiting since 2015 for compensation. I hope there is no corresponding example, such as what we had in Skopelos about two years ago. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, I would like to say to you this: the government has been trying to make some social benefits, which the Prime Minister, too, likes in English phrases and expressions, make them 'one off', that is, once, social dividends in other words. On the other hand, however, do not ignore the fact that there are too many cuts in social spending and, of course, there are still tax exemptions. The difference is that all the things you impose through your own laws are permanent. In other words, it distributes benefits to the government, you once, and it cuts social costs and tax exemptions once and for all. This logic is described in the well-known practice, which I personally had in a previous opportunity to have in a speech to the Greek Parliament. It puts the little in one pocket the government gets the lot from the other pocket. All this, ladies and gentlemen, because it is obvious that there is at the moment in the government. I know you'd like to discuss social benefits through a different account. Obviously that was the target last Wednesday and last Thursday. But what can we do? Life itself and reality itself eventually shapes the political agenda. We heard the Prime Minister earlier, who spoke with obvious anxiety, either because of the polls - because we heard various others - either because of developments in Central Stars lately or because of what is happening in general. Consider that there are factors you did not count on. There were fires in August, there was the huge ecological disaster about a month ago, as there is this great disaster in Mandra now. Uncomfortable! It was once the previous governments' fault. Now it's nothing but the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u398	Mr. Chiara, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u399	I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. In all this, I want to go back to some of the nice things I have heard from the Minister of Finance, Mr Chakaloto. So I am told by Mr Tsakalotou's students that he likes to repeat a saying by Abraham Lincoln, which says: 'You can fool them all for a while, you may fool a few people all the time, but you can surely not fool them all over the time'. This is the answer to all this effort, which was made by the Prime Minister himself earlier, which argued against the House, but also, of course, many of the colleagues and many of the ministers. Because, ladies and gentlemen, lies are, in the end, obviously like a sympathetic, otherwise, forty-five feet of Mr Tsakalotou. You know, the forty-footer has a lot of legs, but it's too close. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u400	The floor is held by the Minister of National Defence - President of the Independent Greeks Mr. Panos Kammenos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u401	Mr President, following the very serious debate on the antomology of the representative of the Civilian opposition, I asked why, not to speak about the social dividend, because here it is demonstrated by the debate that the Civilian Opposition is based on what they say in football 'a rain saves us'. Mr. Tsiara, the Greek people in a few days' time and the people who will take the help of the government and the Greek people with hard sacrifices will take it into their pockets and understand exactly what has happened, understand whether these are fairy tales or if they are the truth. And it's the truth. Our rapporteur - the Parliamentary spokesman will speak shortly - and the Members of the Independent Greeks, as will the ministers, Mr Chakalotos and the Prime Minister. But I want to make two things clear, because Mr Mitsotakis caught me in his mouth again, speaking of the Kammenis scandal and so on. Although the debate on the question is Thursday and we will be here to talk about a matter which concerns a transnational agreement, which has not taken place and in which it is quite clear, deserveful opposition and Mr Mitsotakis have chosen to transform New Democracy into the political arm of a gang of publishing. We'll see this as a choice in the next few days and months. How far will it go? How long will the leader of a party defend a gang and how close are they now to each other so as to reach the point of reproducing false and slanderous news within the House, in the media, along with some professional employees of this gang? I would also like to mention it as a 'bang', Mr President, having regard to the seriousness of my speech in Parliament. I would like to say to Mr Mitsotakis that, as far as my own house is concerned, it is clean. Thursday you'll have all the evidence here. I know that most of the Members of the New Democracy, the old people, and you know me personally and know who I am and who I am, and do not follow this kind of dirty policy which, unfortunately, is followed by the President of the New Democracy. My house doesn't have an off-shore company address or hidden secrets from the past. I've never traded public money in my life. I have become richer in politics, and I will go poorer and I do not tolerate this kind of reproach. I therefore urge Mr Mitsotakis to gather and come here on Thursday in the question's debate to ask what he wants, to get all the answers and not hide behind seven newspapers and two radios, which have undertaken to bring as first news an transnational agreement which has not been implemented, which has not fallen even 1 euro and which is completely clean and which, if not, will be for the Greek public. So to finish this story, I'm waiting for him here on Thursday. I come to the second point on which Mrs Mitsotakis was mentioned, because this was a headline in order not to discuss either today's bill or the involvement of Mrs Mitsotakis in the great Paradise Papers. It's the issue of Ruvikon's invasion of the Ministry of National Defence. It is a very serious matter, of course, and it is a matter of political responsibility, which I have, because they should have been prevented from entering the Ministry of National Defence, as provided for in the regulation. I'm not talking about earlier getting in the showers to the Ministry. Of course they should not have left, but, ladies and gentlemen, you should bear in mind that there is a law in that country. I'll invite you to change him. The military police, the military, have no right to arrest a civilian within a camp. He can't make arrests within camp. The responsibility for getting inside lies with me, and I take the political responsibility and there will be changes. However, because I hear a number of strange people who have taken positions of authority and who have in their time become orgy, they must understand and what is Greek legislation. Of course, and they should not have left, and of course this phenomenon should have invaded groups in public spaces and, in particular, in areas of national defence is an unacceptable phenomenon and must be stopped at the moment. But say 'the figs, figs and boats, boats'. The strange story was, of course, that someone was alerted to the third floor of the Ministry of National Defence, Headquarters upstairs, for the entry of Ruvikon and from the first moment he was taking videos and photographs. Some people knew it, well, and some people who were inside the Ministry of National Defence and some were waiting to take the picture and the video. What has happened will be found and of course we'll take all those steps so it won't happen again. Finally, Mr President, I should like to close by saying to all those who take their political share of radios in order to serve this gang, prepare themselves on Thursday with the information they have in their hands, with the criminal records which they are invoking and which are false, with alleged complaints which they have and which have never been formally filed and to assume their own responsibilities. This game, throwing the ball at the platform, and me being the one who will be the atonement victim, forget it. I expect them to come to the Greek Parliament and see the truth with paper, with proof and ask for apologies for this dirty war that they have started. To know well that in this Chamber I am twenty-six years, eleven times elected by the Greek people. My back can take hits. I can take it till I kick 'em out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u402	Mr Sahinides has the floor from Golden Dawn and we then continue with the list of speakers, from which he has left seven - eight speakers, and, of course, the parliamentary representatives, who, at the request of the Bureau, would like to inform us about when they are counting on their position. Here, Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, Mr President. Once again I would like to express my warmest condolences to the families of the wronged and their relatives. However, I am still impressed by the plenary sitting, where a few days ago, when this theory happened, it was heard by too many people not to take advantage of the political issue. Contrary to that, I see that all parties, nothing apart, were trying to take advantage of the fact as much as they could. However, while remaining in the present draft law, today the intention of 'in favour', as in the committees, was honoured. We have heard from the Minister of Labour about over-reaching. We heard a few days ago in the committee the Minister of Economy talking about over-performance. To be also timely and to remain in the climate, I would ask all of you to go over and vote in favour of the amendment we have tabled - first of all it must be accepted by the relevant ministers - on something that has been mentioned by many in the Chamber, but unfortunately no party has tabled an amendment. It's about the people of the Security Corps and the Army. So we are tabling the amendment with a general number of 1347 and a specific number of 218. I will not read the explanatory statement to you because I do not have time. I will read you something from the proposed provision, which states that the state should fully comply, on the one hand with the reproach resulting from the 2014 and 2016 decisions referred to in the explanatory statement of the Council of State's Plenary Assembly and which had decided to return the remuneration of officials to the Armed Forces and Security Body at the levels before 1 August 2012, wage levels and, on the other hand, the constitutional principle of the particular wage treatment of military and security forces. I am tabling the amendment on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sahinides, presents for the minutes the above amendment, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] With regard to the amendment - addendum, the article we propose to be included in this draft law has three paragraphs. The first paragraph states what provisions should be repealed in articles since they were in force. The second paragraph states that Articles 50 and 51 of Law 3205/2003 should be reintroduced as not repealed. In the third paragraph, we call upon the Minister of Finance, National Defence, Interior, Maritime and Island Policy to determine the time and procedure for payment to the officials of the Armed Forces, the police staff of the Greek Police and the officials of the Firehouse and the Port Authority of adjusted remuneration and pensions, as well as the difference in remuneration and pensions resulting from the provisions of the previous paragraphs mentioned in the explanatory statement, for the period from 1 August 2012 to the beginning of the implementation of the joint ministerial decision. With regard to this draft law, we had asked to clarify who will take and who will have access to the dividend. We were impressed that for the amendment you tabled - and unfortunately it was only heard by a previous speaker - the spokesman, Mr Janakopoulos, mentioned in detail how much money will be given per square block for housing reconstruction, how much for the reconstruction of professional space, unfortunately these are not included in any table in this amendment. We would also like to see the appropriate ministers answer when they calculate to complete the autopsies and whether there is a final deadline for the submission of applications for autopsy. All of this, of course, would have been avoided if the necessary flooding had been done. We should also at some point have an update on whether the sum of compensation in relation to the cost of flooding projects will be greater or less, so that we too will be able to make our criticisms. We will also vote against Rule 1 because it does not include - as I have said before - the amendment we tabled on the Security Body. Unfortunately, both the amendment and the allowance you want to give have absolutely no reference to people with disabilities. While you are referring to vulnerable groups, nowhere, or to the amendment to the floods, it is not clear whether people with disabilities will be given priority, as will the social dividend. I would also like a clarification from the Minister responsible about the legislative improvements that have been submitted. I am referring to paragraph (c) where it talks about assets and while it is stated that those who declare expenditure on tuition fees in private schools will be excluded - and rightly so, because it did not specify whether it would be the case for the schools - the next series dismisses it, because it mentions and states 'those who declare expenditure on domestic assistants' - right - 'for car drivers' - right - 'teachers and other staff'. It is not specified whether these teachers will be tutors of care, whether these teachers will be scholars. So a man who needs his child and wants to pay a teacher to learn some things more properly or to be rationalized, will not have access to this presumption to social benefits. We would like these clarifications. As far as Article 2 is concerned, we will vote'residents' because, as we have said, it is something we would like the Armed Forces to include. We will also vote against Article 3 on PPC and social invoices. We shall vote in favour of this amendment, because we believe that this should be a consistent policy towards undignified people, against people who have problems with the naturality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u404	Mr. Dousinas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u405	We have heard a great deal in recent days, Mr President, about equality and inequality, about legal and morality, and I would like to address these issues, presenting some basic principles of moral and political philosophy, which make the ideological and philosophical gap between the left and the right quite clear. "All people are born equal and free," states the first article of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, but this statement does not describe a reality. We are not born free, but completely dependent on our parents and those who care for us. The child is not born in Mandra equals the child in Katali or the shipowner’s child equal to that of the sailor. The statement is therefore not descriptive, but it is effective, as we say, a call and a slogan: 'Let us act politically in order to gain equality and freedom'. This is the indictment of the Left and the Democrats, the foundation of social justice. The right not only does not accept it, but on the contrary believes and promotes inequality. Justice is organised around two main practices: firstly, the redistribution of wealth and income; secondly, recognition of identity, that is, care for both the body and for the language and for the matter and for the spirit. We have legislated on the legal and therefore social recognition of the LGBT community, on trans people, on the naturalisation of immigrant children, on the banning of discrimination against minorities. Identity is the first principle of left and justice. Today we are moving to the second principle, that of redistribution. Even in the difficult situation that we are in today, class redistribution is an unnegotiable left-wing principle. Our concern is the continuous reduction of the scissors between rich and poor who have become a gap in the years of austerity, the greatest in all human history. 1% of the world's population owns 50% of the world's wealth. If we look especially at Greece and look at the gini coefficient, which is the most effective way of measuring inequality, Greece is in the hundreds of hundreds of eighty countries and in the 20th place of the twenty-eight countries of the European Union. Why? Yesterday, Bertelsmann Stiftung - this institution, the German institution, is no left - published a report on social justice in all the countries of Europe. The song for Greece contains the following statement, which I will translate from English because it has not been translated into Greek: "The negligence of previous governments for measures against poverty and social exclusion left the most vulnerable people unprepared to cope with the effects of the crisis." There's something else. World literature shows that inequality, beyond being socially unfair, is also economically destructive. Thomas Picketty, Wilkinson and the OECD have documented this. In the OECD report, which has just come out, it is described that economic inequality has a negative impact on growth. But what do we mean by 'equality'? The idea of equality is relatively simple. First, each counts for one and no more than one. Secondly, each of us is unique, but his uniqueness is created together with others. So equality for us is something that precedes the political and social contract. It is the primary human tendency, care and care for one another. When the mourner appears, when the homeless or the refugee shows up and says to me, "give me food, save me, give me shelter", the ontological equality of this concern to the other takes precedence over any personal interest. These do not come from contractual obligations or duties, but from the basic human intention to take care of the other. So that's the left position. I'll end up saying two words about the right. We have the debate on tax havens. Why are they there? Their only usefulness is tax avoidance, i.e. increasing inequality. They tell us that if they're legal, they're moral. Is that the way things are? When huge profits are not taxed at the place they were created, using workers and public services, they remove the possibility of a social policy from the state. One reason why no schools and hospitals, which reduce pensions and social benefits, are not built, is that wealth escapes. The size of tax evasion internationally is monstrous. According to a calculation, between $5 and 8 trillion are parked in these paradises. The quantity, that is, becomes quality. What's morally metabolic is turned into theft. The immorality of individuals is called ‘public interest’. They told us about moral and legal. In Nuremberg - as many of us and, above all, lawyers know - the concept of crimes against humanity was created, rejecting the view of Nazis and legal theologicalists that it is enough to follow the law and morality is not important. The monstrous immoral, however, also became illegal. There's been a crime. I think it is time to deal with this monstrous tax evasion by creating an offence against the whole of society. That's the left ideology. Relaunching the economy, collecting new resources from limiting the prerogatives of the hierarchy, institutional reforms and debt write-down must always be accompanied immediately by class measures to alleviate the burden of the socially weak. This is what we are voting on today: reducing disparities with the support of socially vulnerable groups, and that is our difference with you on the left. This is the moral advantage of the Left. We are with equality and social justice, both legal and moral. We're with 99% of the world's population. Right is with wealth and inequality. This is how the Greek people should judge us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u406	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, forty-five students and students and three teachers attending the 2nd High School of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u407	The three-day national mourning of the unscrupulous tragedy is over, but the drama of the great catastrophe continues and we will not allow you to be forgotten and abandoned by the wounded, as has unfortunately been done with other flooding or firefighting people in Attica, Zakynthos, eastern Mani, Elias and elsewhere. They experience the abandonment and indifference of government and self-government. And after the fire, floods are coming. It is a challenge for the Prime Minister to tell us that anti-military works are being done while his own policy has drowned them. You have announced measures, but it is inadequate and the amendment that you tabled on essential needs. What is needed immediately and quickly is that the affected have a bulwark, food and shelter until repairs begin. Could this have been avoided and we could not count twenty dead and disasters? Yes, it could have been, if the earth were not a merchandise, but a social asset, and if all governments were to take priority today and yesterday, the needs of the inhabitants and the region in anti-military projects. However, these do not leave a great profit to the capitalist, nor a Russell to the urban parties. Therefore, your responsibilities over time are criminal. As far as the dividend is concerned, although it's crumbs of mocking, we'll vote for it. But we call on the people not to compromise either with crumbs or with mocking, because every day you are snatching carves from the popular layers through tax raid and tax-paying in various forms. Go to the point where you are grabbing even the mouth bite to unprotected children and people with disabilities when you shrink, cut them, deprive them of the social benefits they have received so far, i.e. those objectively unable to work. Then you condemn them to total impoverishment without limits. It's barbaric, it's inhuman, like electronic auctions. You're gonna grab the first residence of those who don't have to pay. That's why it's really hard to go out and say that you're supposedly showing sensitivity and dispensing for a social dividend to the economically weaker households that anti-popular and barbaric politics creates you. Your hypocrisy and phantomism end not only of the government, but also of the counterpopulation, of the New Republic and of the PASOK. But what are you trying to hide through the communication objective of the social dividend? That the next period will further increase the tax burden on employees, self-employed and retired, with a reduction in tax and new reductions in pensioners. At the same time, you are generally salaryd four hundred euros and flexible forms of work for the majority of workers. You have thrown out the draft law on collective agreements of over five hundred unions which signed pan-Hellenicly and which the JRC submitted to Parliament. Therefore, you have created all tools for the legal and ruthless exploitation of the labour force by business groups. However, it is a fraud to include and invoke as a social dividend and stolen from the pensioners, who have implemented you and the previous ones, the New Democracy and the PASOK. In fact, you are forced to do so because there was a judicial decision! You don't do no thanks to anyone. On the contrary, you owe more stolen. You are hypocrites and heartbreakers, and that is why this policy is not corrected, but reversible. Because this year is a hundred years from the October Revolution, it is good to remember that since last century in the socialist system people have not had social poverty divides, because they have defeated and eliminated unemployment as a social phenomenon. They all had work and free public care, with a lot of mandatory preventive tests, which is nowhere in the capitalist world. That's why they had a high average life and didn't work until the deep ages. Women were retired at fifty-five and men at sixty. These, however, taste when the working class and its allies decisively organize their struggle and defeat their exploiters, establish their own power, and then the state and economy have a purely philosophical face, because in the center is man and his needs and not the profit of capitalists, like in your own exploited inhumane society, capitalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u408	Mrs Vaki has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u409	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the main body of my speech, allow me a brief reference to the amendment tabled. Following the tragic events, following the disasters in many of our counties affected by the disasters, including the Corfu Prefecture, these are compensated and granted a single payment allowance both to the affected natural persons and to the affected businesses. I call on the National Representation to vote for it. It's very important. In many areas of the country, we measured wounds. With regard to the main issue, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the distribution of the social dividend, as developed in the co-legislative committees, but also in today's debate in plenary, is characterised by a paradox: almost all the warrings of the Opposition accuse the Government of tabling this bill. They criticise the government choices that led to the existence of a social surplus, but this time they are coordinated with the public about the right feeling and finally vote in favour. This political bipolarism is uncomfortable. It illustrates the awkwardness of the Officerial Response in particular to justify its teratology throughout the past period in relation to the progress of the economy and budgets, while at the expense of social outcry it attempts to turn the debate on other issues, of course with its favorite theme of terrorism and lawlessness. But it does not try to make politics, but a micro-political one - and it is lenient - a crow above the dead of Mandra's tragedy. So before I enter the provisions of the bill, which regulates the payment of social dividends, I too would like to make a renovation of the term 'insurance', which has been so much developed today by some of our colleagues in anti-population. Ladies and gentlemen, the weekend that passed us saw the light of publicity the list of Greeks who were found with outward deposits on the famous Paradise Papers list. You see, it's not working class, it's not even middle class. There goes an oligarchy of wealth that corresponds globally to 1% and is bleaking 50% of the wealth produced. We did not, however, hear anyone asking about the continuing tax lawlessness developed by some in relation to this issue. We did not hear any of the New Democracy talking with the same stumbling block about social security, which is affected by the hidden treasures of those who, as the British say, were 'born with the silver spoon in the mouth'. On the contrary, what did we hear? We have heard that moral right to tax evasion and tax evasion has been founded, that they are right to do and seek tax havens by some wealthy people, because that is how they protect their interests from the tax they have to pay to the state and to the community as a whole. The same, of course, say about investment and the economy. They go to meetings of international actors, invite them to take them all over the years and at the same time, dream new memoirs. They did the same before, of course, when they encouraged people to make their money abroad, they themselves, apparently, want to do so now. The social dividend of 1,4 billion euros, distributed by the government in this bill to three million four hundred thousand citizens, is the answer of a left-wing government to all those who had learned for years to hide over-profit and undeniable incomes. With this government, tax lawlessness is over. Public finances are also being strengthened by non-auditary revenues resulting from the fight against tax evasion, attributed where they belong: to society, to the citizens themselves. At the same time, and because there has been a very great debate in committees too, this year's surplus reflects a number of improved performance and other categories of financial indicators, which also relate to the reduction of tax evasion, such as the collection of indirect taxes, but also to the increase in social security resources, through the reduction of unemployment and, of course, the increase in the volume of the real economy, through growth, which is expected to reach 2%. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] One minute, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the social dividend for 2017 is a record height and will be distributed to three categories of expenditure. In the one-off aid to households with low, but also medium-term incomes, the repayment of government debts to pensioners - debts arising from the illegal retentions, which this government stopped - as well as the support of PPC's social invoice services in 2016. With this year's social dividend, therefore, not only are those in extreme poverty favoured, but also the middle-incomes that have been compressed all these years because of the crisis. From the one-off aid and from the retention of the cost of electricity and from the normalisation of the State's outstandings to pensioners, the whole economy is favoured. This year, in this context, the well-being of indicators is also reflected in society by stimulating liquidity and returning money to a wide-ranging citizens' base. The parties, which are shouting today, when they govern, have never achieved such budgetary results. These results, apart from social relief, however, also offer the key to exiting the memoranda. In all the objections that have been heard, it is 'philanguage', 'false', 'baxis', - we have heard too much today - yes, I will agree that a left-wing government will only be worth its name when it has made the idea of social justice and equality, only when it has set up the social state that has demolished the roadmaster of neoliberalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u410	Mrs. Vaki, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u411	But we still heal wounds. Next summer, with an even more positive course in the economy, however, the country ends with adjustment programs, with the memoranda. Then all those who are dissatisfied with the successes in budgetary matters will be in an even more awkward position. But then, like today, the citizens will know who is responsible for the difficulties and who were the ones who consistently fought to escape from the size of the committee and the memoranda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u412	Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u413	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to allow me first of all to wish the immediate measures taken by the Government for those affected, the flooded, to be able to alleviate their suffering and suffering. I would also like to add to the first wish and a second, so that all those who bear the burden of responsibility on their shoulders - which must be directly blamed on them - take it, be punished and so achieve a double purpose, which the state has a duty to achieve. Firstly, the memory of our wronged fellow citizens can be justified. Secondly, it should set an example to avoid those who would like to continue at the same pace as those who today, yesterday, are, in any case, responsible for this disaster and for this national tragedy. Of course, I am constantly listening to this step by colleagues talking about overtaxation. I wonder what overtaxation is? Is overtaxation the HPAI that has been inherited from the previous governments, HPAI, which the current government is distributed fairer, since some of our fellow citizens are exempted from paying, others paying 50%, and others are less? I wonder what overtaxation is? Is the VAT that we inherited at 23% and through monumental commitments and coercives - to tell the truth, figs and boats - we had to put him up to 24%? What's overtax? What we inherited from contributions to the funds of the self-employed and the self-employed, which we have done much less with a fairer system by abolishing insurance? What's overtax? Is the tax evasion and the tax evasion we have inherited, and today we are fighting for dues, trying through electronic payments, to cure an untreated political system that has troubled the national economy? What is all this about overtaxing? We are forgetting today in the tide of the Memorandum debts, that what we borrowed, we did not borrow it for the survival of the people, for the recovery of the country, which we received skeleton and anemic, but we borrowed so that we could get rid of the hundreds of billions inherited from the previous governments. The previous governments ask us: 'What did you give?' And today the government has announced the sums for the relief of floods through these immediate measures. Really, you're asking what we gave? The dear Parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, whom I personally appreciate and respect his political course, wonders whether we gave the other 50% that they did not give. They made a decision to give only 50% of the soldiers. I wonder why, when you cut them off, you did not immediately execute the decision of the S.H.E., which came out in April 2014, and executed it halfway through 50% in December 2014? Are you really saying you gave up? The current government does not pay this 50%, and we promised that we would give the other 50%? Let go, though. Be patient. Wait. The four-year-old didn't run out. We respect our commitments and our promises as far as we can. That makes the difference, and we have the comparative advantage of all of you. Of course, I hear that we have thrown the government down. Really, dear colleague? Did we drop the government? When you provoked elections by casting themselves the PASOK - New Democracy Government in December 2014 and you opened elections for January 2015, when the elections to the President of the Republic were in March 2015? Couldn't you be government by April and call elections for May 2015? Couldn't you have this five-month period, anyway, to pursue that economic policy that would get Greece out of the staircase? And are we, as Minister Stathakis said, the destructives of this government? We are also talking about Saudi Arabia, you spoke of the Minister of National Defence. You did so in Parliament today by saying that what is happening is what will irreparably expose the Minister of Defence and expose the Ministry of Defence irreparably. I will not say any more about this, because I will be a parliamentary representative that day and I will say too much. I am content with what the President of the Independent Greeks said a moment ago. And of course, you talked about dependencies, gambling, demagogy dependencies, folklore dependencies. Allow me to add another dependency: the dependence of the delusional speech, which unfortunately composes the image of a parliamentary speech of many of the colleagues. Mr President, I am going to go far enough of what I wanted to say and stand on an epilogue by closing down and saying that the government's fundamental priority was and remains the strengthening and shielding of social protection. Our pursuit is achieved through the support of sensitive social groups, namely those that have been most affected by the long-term crisis. This draft law confirms the commitment of the SYRIZA Government to the effective reintroduction and support of the social state. For all these reasons, therefore, the Independent Greeks are in favour of voting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u414	Next speaker is Mr. Dritsa from SYRIZA. Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks Mr Papachristopoulos, the next two speakers, who will be the last on the list, will be followed and we will continue with the positions of the last three parliamentary representatives. Mr. Drizzas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u415	Thank you, Mr President. Many people have spoken in this Chamber for unspeakable human tragedy all these hours, and I think that is exactly what it is about. But honestly, I cannot understand how it is possible to mean that we are witnessing an insurmountable human tragedy, and at the same time, reading texts already and not because they have been lured from their word, having all this zero approach, distorting everything, struggling towards Rena Durous, either to the Prime Minister or to the competent ministers in a number of ways that do not fit the minds of man. Ladies and gentlemen, the pain, despair, anger and anger belong primarily to those who have experienced this tragedy, to those who have lost loved people, to those who have destroyed their homes, their businesses. Societies with this pain may be all of us, but it does not correspond to us, it corresponds to something else, that is, to do something about it! And of course, we must also understand what we can do by assessing and assessing what has been wrong in previous years, so that they will not happen again. Here, then, are the initiatives of the government, the initiatives of the state, the intervention to immediately relieve these people's suffering and the plans to compensate them, to restore them all. There was - and one cannot ignore it - for the first time in the Attica region a programme for flooding projects, which - one does not need to advertise anything - was far better than all the previous projects prepared by the region's earlier administrations. He's in progress. Another project is at the beginning of it, another one is on the way, another is in its design, in the studies, in anything. So why was this whole cannibalism not completed? In response to our responsibilities, let us all conclude, the whole House, and to the inhabitants of the West Attica and to ourselves and to the Greek people, that all the streams throughout Greece will also open up every arbitrary structure that is on the streams. Are we going to put it together today? It is the least responsibility and honour to the sufferings of these people - the least. But so far it has not done so the political potential that has governed the country. He hasn't. Now he's gonna do it? So let us all conclude by saying that we will be able to represent politically, as Mrs Gennimata and Mr Mitsotakis have tried today, the pain and anger of the people of Mandra, Magulas, Nea Peramos and Elefsina. That means political and political honesty. Otherwise the rest is rhetoric for exploiting the pain and anger of these people. Ladies and gentlemen, the return of the social dividend - and they come and are linked - is not a provision. It is an obligation that arises from the fact that a binding programme in its implementation meets its objectives. The government staff implementing the programme are consistent and honest. He's not applying it to evade. He is aware of how painful this programme is, but he succeeds in bringing it to fruition. It's not from overtax. One can say a great deal of taxation. The budget was foreseeable. What was collected from the budget estimates was intended to be collected. And what was collected, collected and what was not collected was not collected. The surplus is the correct implementation of a plan, to achieve objectives, painful objectives, for which no one can be proud. But these are the two sides of this very contradictory and real policy, which this government has undertaken to carry out with responsibility. That is the surplus, and that is why it is an obligation to be attributed and it is neither a gift nor a provision nor anything. It is crazy that all sides of this House are voting for it and yet all these hours we have to listen to this ordeal of destructiveness, while everyone is voting for it. Think that they wouldn't vote for what would have been heard in here. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, with the legitimate crime of extreme anti-social individuality, all these stories with offshore companies. Will we also agree on this in a Greek and pan-European campaign to depreciate offshore companies? Do all sides of the House agree to disapprove this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u416	Mr. Dritsa, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u417	I am done, Mr President, with this. Or we will accept that those who benefit are 'excellent'. We are giving you this excellence! It's yours, a nourishment of your extravagance DNA. But this is disastrous both for Greece and for Europe and for the world all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u418	Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u419	Thank you, Mr President. I was impressed by the aggression of the Chief of Officerial Response on issues that should be more careful and by the Chief of the Democratic Independence Parliamentary Group. I'd expect lower tons while some people are still looking for theirs. But I have to say two words. Because in the hanged house they don't talk about rope. Mrs Gennimata - and I am referring first to her, I wish her all the best after her re-election - she was an invisible overseer for a very long time. She was invisible Deputy Minister of Health. Nobody remembers anything. More importantly, neither she nor any of her candidates considered it necessary - perhaps they would consider it insignificant - to say how they would pay off the nearly 200 million borrowed. I do not want to talk about more. I think, however, that only with them should tones be lower. But let it be. Let's talk about the dividend. No, ladies and gentlemen, no one triumphs or rejoices. The aim of this government, for those who have not understood it, is growth, is new jobs, is investment. Some say charity. I agree with them that it's charity. We shouldn't have given her up. One third of the Greek society is on the verge of poverty. He needs this dive, the hundred. You don't? Then why do you vote for it? Of course, it is not the right thing to do with this kind of policy. We are all in agreement. Did we create it or did we find it? Eleven million Greeks had already lost one quarter of their assets. I would remind you that GDP from 120% had gone to 180%. I would remind you that the debt was 325 billion dollars. This government has done all this. There was also an unemployment that had reached 27.9% in 2013. The market cricket that they were? Where were the investments to come? We're just speaking Greek. We're closing this parentheses. To speak with evidence and say: I have heard a disaster without a previous disaster. A lamentation from morning to night. 'Go away'. ‘You are dangerous’. It's your right. You're judging the way you stand. The reality, however, says other things. I want to be clear. I'll remember that ten-year bonds are at 5.1%. Very soon the 5% dam will break. We'll go where we were in 2009. I would also like to remind you of facts - and anyone who wants to question it - how the change in the investment climate seems, which you all regret that we do not want to see. Greek entrepreneurs are not afraid to proceed to major investment projects. For example, this year at the end of the nine-month period - because we will see what will happen and at the end of the year - corporate bonds amounting to 750 million were issued, which have been carried out with disabilities. Are they friends of SYRIZA and ANEL? Oh, no. I would also like to remind you that the third assessment is ending and the fourth one will end. A 10 billion-dollar security pillow is possible. I would also like to remind you that, and no one can question this, in the context of the implementation of short-term measures to alleviate Greek debt, domestic banking institutions each month moved EFSF bonds from the interbank market to the European Stability Mechanism in exchange for cash. This exchange began in February. How much money did you know? 25 billion. What are we going for? For one third of the debt only in the short term. How dangerous? I didn't say it was easy. I didn't say this was happening with the cross in the hand. Fight, big fight, it's a hell of a war. It's a pity to see the whole planet squeeze us out - all of our planet swept away - and see a misery, a petty, a petty mind, a hysteria here in this Chamber. Mistakes, yes, we did. We've confessed. We've done our self-criticism. I have heard the Honourable Chief of Staff with an apology saying: 'Apologise.' Yeah? Can I remind him something? Because I happen to be in the Health Committee, I myself asked a central employee of CEDEFOP: so many millions in the group, so many millions in this journalist, so many... I've been reading for a quarter. There's 185 loan million for advertising. There is legislation throughout the world where CEDEFOP is not obliged to pay, because it is responsible for public health whether it is called cholera or called AIDS. How much money was spent? 185 million in an organization, which wasn't either public software or ADP or anywhere. I beg your pardon? Secondly, find one of SYRIZA and ANEL's Government to be on a list whether it's called Borgians whether it's Panama or it's called Paradise. Find one. Nobody. I don't want to scratch wounds. Be careful. Some people plundered the country. She was handed over bankrupt and looted. This thing we're managing today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u420	Mr. Papachristopoulos, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u421	I'm done, Mr. President. I have no more to say. My last conversation just says: it's not good for the country. We can even now, after we've been self-criticizing, because some people are to blame. Not everyone's fault. In all the parties - I have said it and said it many times - there are people very morally. Make your self-criticism as many of us as we must and move on, make your opposition with a sign of democracy, not that thing. This hysterical thing must be stopped and I believe that sooner or later - and you will see it and Thursday - it will turn you backwards. Can I say a half a word? I was with Kumoutsako, who is careful and when the journalist asked him, he said twice: "I am not responsible for the Ministry of National Defence for the question." Twice he got away. And when he asked if it was a scandal, he said: 'Okay, we're investigating it'. What simpler and simpler, Mr President. These are three official documents at the Ministry of National Defence on the website posted, which, in any official way, has the Ministry of National Defence in a country, says: We certify. And we're not talking about middlemen, we're talking about a transnational deal. What's simpler? An e-mail send! There's no business for the consul or any military circles. I repeat that for this sale the Ministry of National Defence is responsible for this country and for the other. Ask to find out, so you won't be exposed! So you'll be officially answered by the Department of National Defence that these documents are forged. It's three papers. And you will be justified.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u422	Mr. Papachristopoulos, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u423	I shall conclude, Mr President. Be more careful! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u424	Mr Ioannis Saridis has the floor from the Centroon Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u425	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the tragic events of the last few days and the unfair loss of our twenty fellow citizens, and after having attended the Greek people as well as the way in which they reacted to the political system, I realised that the biggest problem in our country, what really plagues the domestic political system, can only be a lack of imagination. That is the problem we have, ladies and gentlemen. We have no imagination for the elected representatives of this country. And because we have no imagination as heretics, we are not entitled to condemn the lack of imagination which is constantly displaying both the leaders, namely those responsible and those responsible. How can we imagine that when you're poor and have a family, you'll be forced to accept buying the cheap plot, the one that the greedy sells to you with courage and know it's illegal, because it's a little cheap. Given the need to put a tiles above my children, my family, and since the state tolerates this illegality, and no one will do anything about it, I will buy and build even on a stream. Moreover, the leading post-cultural argument, which has accompanied all the Greek governments of post-Multipation, is summarized in a single phrase: 'Come now, who will deal with it? Who's involved?’ Nobody's bothered! When they were building illegally, no one was involved. When the streams were in, no one was involved. When malicious works were made, no one was involved. When we left behind the register, the forest maps, the spatial plans, no one was involved. When we destroyed the productive tissue of this country, no one was involved. When Europe was financing us in projects, in projects, in studies, in order to be financially independent, we have chosen to become more economically dependent and on that no one has dealt with it. We share in a poor Greece in 2017 social dividend and suddenly we all deal with it. The whole political scene deals with exorcising its responsibilities for disasters, the tragic situation in the West Attica. Where, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Petropoulos would have to vote today, when two months ago he explained to me in this Chamber that he was not obliged to accept an amendment that I had tabled, according to which the government should immediately return to the long-term volunteers the illegal detentions that had been made. He could not then imagine that today, two months later and under the burden of court ruling, he would have to legislate urgently to return other, corresponding illegal detentions. So I ask you, Minister, Mr Petropoulou, why are you showing this indifference, especially for long-term volunteers? Why do you exclude them from this bill? We will not have time to discuss this, people will not get an answer, once again, because we are legislating under the urgency procedure to defeat bureaucracy. This is the government's argument to the urgent procedure: to avoid bureaucracy. I am sure neither did Mr Chakalotos imagine that such a disaster would happen so quickly, when about a month ago he replied to me here, in this Chamber that he has kept a cavaja - that word he used - of about EUR 1 billion, precisely for such cases. In fact, he told me then that this money, the EUR 1 billion, is keeping it to deal with the consequences of natural disasters and terrorist acts. Nor I, of course, imagined that Mr Chakalotos would reply to me, namely that he has 1 billion at the end of a parked out of the budget, which he himself manages only, when what I asked him to know was where the money comes from the dozens of illegal detentions, with which the Greek borrowers are charged. Do the Greeks know that from every loan they have received - either professionally, consumer-consumer-consumer-consumer-consumer-consumer-consumer-consumer-consumer-pay a contribution, which ends in Mr Tsakalotou's fund, to Mr Tsakalotos's cavaja? Do they know? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one, one and a half minutes, Mr President, more. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the fact that it is legitimate for the government to withhold through banks and off-budgets money from all borrowers to make the 'carbas' today, I ask you this: why didn't you use this 'carbas', gentlemen of the government? Why don't you use this $1 billion you've collected from borrowers for the purpose you're saying you've collected it? Why does the amendment you bring us have no reference to this money? When the Prime Minister spoke in his first statement about our own responsibilities, about our own powers and commented negatively on Brussels' bureaucracy, I imagined that he had the cavaja of Mr Tsakalotos in mind. But then I heard that the President of Officer Mitsotakis, Mr Mitsotakis, did everything he could with personal interventions to defeat this very bureaucracy. Then I also heard Mrs Gennamas, the President, head of the Democratic Integration and the River, calling for the affected parties to be given part of the social dividend. At that time I realised that neither the Prime Minister nor the President of the Officerial Representation nor many others in this Chamber were aware of the existence of Mr. Tsakalotou's cavajas, which is not prevented by bureaucracy, nor does it require legalisation, only a simple signature by Mr. Tsakalotos. With the confessors who've lost their money, has anyone dealt with it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u426	Mr. Saridis, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u427	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Has anyone dealt with them? Can they imagine what they could have won? With the money of borrowers since 2002 to date, who have been illegally withheld, has anyone dealt with it? Can you imagine how much money we're talking about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u428	Mrs Catherine Papacosta, Independent MEP, has the floor and we will continue...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u429	Mr President, how many more speakers are there?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u430	It is the last speaker on the list and three other parliamentary representatives, namely Mr Megalamoustakas, Mr Karathanasopoulos and Mr Mandas. Then we shall proceed to the vote. I don't know if the Minister will in the meantime want to intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u431	Mr President, can I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u432	Yes, Mr. Comrade. I'm sorry, Mrs. Papakosta, for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u433	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u434	With your permission, Mr President. Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u435	Clearly you want to say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u436	Yeah. We had agreed with Mr Kaklamani if the amendment on the floods was tabled after our speeches, as it was done, to give us two minutes to place us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u437	You mean dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u438	Yeah, he saw a dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u439	All right, fine, we're not gonna mess up there, Mr. Kutsuko. You'll have a short time to place yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u440	Okay, Mr. President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u441	Here, Mrs Papakosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u442	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, to express my support for the families of the affected and the victims. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since the morning I have been attending the sitting. Of course, I must tell you that, from the standpoint of the Independent Member, on the basis of the social dividend - and I shall be here - I see that we are at risk of being swallowed by the mud of populism, where air is now becoming political, and of course it is the definition of decline. The airtight, those who sell fresh or uncooked air, are the ones who determine the political agenda today. I would like to say to you that all the political parties must be held responsible, because this is where the improvement of the quality of the political speech begins, through the National Representation and not through its appeasement. So let us leave the mud of populism and get to the bottom of legitimisation, for the benefit of the citizens. I said that I am speaking to you today in the capacity of the Independent MEP on the basis of the social dividend, because I believe and believe it absolutely - and I am confirmed by the attitude of my party, the New Democracy, which has rightly chosen this year to vote for the social dividend - that the 'partners' attitude was a policy which did not match the New Democracy. Because you do not assign your policy and you do not abandon the policy - followed by the government - which has been followed by a pillaring of the New Democracy - to give a social dividend as an obligation of the state to the citizens who have been stricken and bleeding and are still bleeding from the economic crisis. So the New Democracy is right this time to vote in favour of this social dividend, which - to clarify things - in no case, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is not the product of growth in the economy, because if that were the case, it would contribute further to growth. This is a first observation. The second point is that, of course, on the part of the government, the adoption of a policy for which it was building lips is at least the need for public apologies for the lips it was building at the time, since today it adopts the need to provide social dividends to the weak social groups. And there's the vicious circle. A colleague questioned earlier: But what do we hear this morning, since we are all voting in favour? You are listening to the result and you see the result and the stubbornness of an opposition which you have exercised, and today you receive it, you get it back as a depreciation for the suffering you have caused to the forces which constituted the then coexistence. Unfortunately, there is no political maturity - that is what I see - to understand that this is now a declining element of the country's political life, and it is not a qualitative difference that today distinguishes the political world and shows that it has understood its responsibilities, that it has understood its mistakes and that it has renounced everything that has, in any case, been afflicted by the public life of the country and not at any cost. It wasn't all out. It cost too much. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, you will allow me. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as social dividends are concerned, I have heard too much, but we have to start with one assumption. I have noted here in a small block that has the following assumptions: Admission first: I hear great plans for economic policy. First mistake: there is no economic and monetary policy in this country which is under memorandum regime and then, whenever we go out in any case, under comitology, there is only the exercise of a budgetary policy. Economic and monetary policy, ladies and gentlemen of all wings, is carried out by the central banker of Europe and by Brussels, since the country is in this situation. This is a first assumption. What are we doing? Financial policy. Is the mixture of budgetary policy right, on the occasion of the debate on the social dividend, which is, of course, necessary, and we must all close our eyes to voting after having seen where to distribute it and how to distribute it so that it is as fair as possible? The mixture of budgetary policy, when you have a restrictive economic policy, rather than a development, expansion policy, cannot be with the social dividend of redistributive or rewarding. The policy mix, for example, which would give the social dividend to seven million Greeks instead of four million who were supposed to benefit and have a redistributive and developmental character, would constitute a different fiscal policy. This policy would involve HPAI, for example, so that it would benefit a greater range of citizens, would reduce the hole of about 15 billion because the multipliers of taxes and transfer payments - the social dividend between them - are equal and opposite. That doesn't give payroll. Savings, which have essentially been eliminated - there is no policy - which would enable the banks to open up the string, not to raise the cost of interest rates and therefore the cost of investment, to enable individuals to invest and to create growth. So the answer to Mr Tsakalotos, who said 'But from where will the New Democracy find resources after reducing taxes? Will it cut off from health, cut off from education, from development?" is whether it operates with a proper mix of fiscal policy, which will be balanced by a development policy and not just restrictive policies, which weaken the country's economic firmness. At the same time, in this mixture of budgetary policy, public investment must increase, lower tax rates and, of course, create two basic conditions, ladies and gentlemen, for which we have never been serious. One condition is that there should be a uniform and stable tax environment and the other is that there should be a stable and stable investment environment. Now to finish with the legitimate and moral things and not to hide behind our finger, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about tax havens. There is one solution that we can implement in the Greek Parliament - and I propose it - which is that profits must be taxed at their place of production. This will benefit the national economy as well. In this sense, therefore, solutions and political responses, if we want to make political and not populism, there are. Finally, I should like to close with this, Mr President, and thank you very much for the opportunity and the tolerance of time. I have had a different proposal for the distribution and distribution of the EUR 360,000,000 that the government gives. For example, they could be shared as follows: The EUR 100,000 000 for beneficiaries of social solidarity income, the EUR 150,000 for soldiers in the fight against the final decisions of the U.S. government to show that it respects judicial decisions - political symbolism is too strong - and the EUR 110,000,000 could well go to cover services of general interest. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have to decide on this National Representation - so that we do not get arrested and all of our afflicted Greek people - to discuss seriously, propose political solutions and not function as our ancient ancestors have said - and put here the sorrow orders around, to remember every day how we should operate - 'in the case of malicious, victorious', that is, 'even if you win on speeches that are not good, but evil, you will be more elusive'. So let us avoid it from now on. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u443	The Members of the New Democracy, Mr Jason Fotilas and George Kasapidis request permission from a short-day absence abroad, two days and one day respectively. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u444	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. We continue with the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, Mr Megalomustakas. Mr. Big-fashioned, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u445	Mr President, before I begin my position on this bill, I too would like to express my grief and my condolences to the tragedy that occurred in West Attica and to convey something that is heard out in society, that responsibilities are not a ball to throw them from here and there and cannot get into the balance. All those who have been in power to date are to blame for what has been done and the responsibility must be assumed by those who have to do so, since the policy pursued so far in this area is the policy of roulette, that is to say if it sits down or does not give us an extreme weather as it has happened. That's not the fault. All those who ruled are those who, while sharing some dividends in the midst of a crisis, did not predict that the basics should be made in that country. We all need to think about what happened and take immediate decisions so that something similar does not happen again. Let's go to the bill now. I shall begin with the last article on PPC and the coverage of the YMOs. We are very afraid that the policy that has been pursued so far is deceiving, but also performing PPC, and in the end it will end up sold out, as you were calling before you became a government. With this social dividend, this reinforcement we do not believe you will achieve what you want to achieve. I am going soon to Article 2 with which, in fact, you put the retroactive, i.e. the money illegally detained by the EPPY by the retired. We all know very well in here that if one of the retired people went to court and claimed the money, it would win. So make it self-evident, keep a judicial decision and present it as something pioneering or as part of your social character. In fact, you do so in a way that might hide and risks, as the wording does not include the reservations made by Law 3865/2010, as amended by Law 3986/2011. We hope that you will take into account the amendment we have given you and that this legislative improvement will be accepted so that there will be no suspicion of that happening, because if we do not give the money they have given back, then it is like mocking them. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] I'm going to Article 1 with which you share the surplus. This is a surplus that has always been created, in our view, not in the way you have told us, namely by combating tax evasion and smuggling. It was created by the collectivity of the sums from the Lagard list, the Borgians list and the transfer. The rates of collectivity are too small. It's 16% for the Lagard list, it's 1% for the Borgians list and just 10.6% for the transfer. This whole surplus did not come from a proper policy. There was no growth. You did not use the instrument of subsidisation for the NRP. So far there have still been applications from the previous cycle. While we are close to 2018, the money paid to the beneficiaries for the second cycle 2014-2020 is 11.26%. And we're in 2018! In two years this cycle will end. We should act much faster in a time of crisis, which you do not. Also in the Public Investment Programme we see that expenditure is reduced. Instead of EUR 3 billion, only EUR 2 billion has been allocated to date, while we also see some reductions. I have listened very carefully to the Prime Minister talking about how the New Democracy will find the money so that there is no overtax. He said spending cuts very importantly for this country. We have seen from the figures that have been given to us for the period from January 2017 to October that expenditure instead of the target is reduced by EUR 1,852,000. Indeed, these reduced costs include hospital sponsorships, which are reduced by EUR 101 million, the Greek State's contribution to protecting the main residence, which is reduced by EUR 73 million, the equipment which is reduced by EUR 51 million and the sectors of the economy and the country that are in great need. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need a little more time, Mr. President. That is not what you promised, and that is the problem. When you were in the opposition, you said you wouldn't continue the overcrowding that existed beforehand. And there was. You have not complied with what you have undertaken to do. That's what he convicts you. We have made proposals on how to reduce taxation a little, and we have spoken about them. If you see our positions clearly, you will see that with the pension cut that exceeds 1,500 euros, with the unification of pensions in one - as there are many in Greece at the moment that takes two and three and four even twelve pensions - we will earn a lot of money. You're not listening to us! Unfortunately, it is clear that you are deciding on what path you will follow on your own. That seemed last year when we warned you that the previous "bomb" you gave will not be given in the right way. As I heard very well, and you admitted that it was given to people who did not need him as much as other fellow citizens. The evil in this whole case is that you're not on your own, but you have the future of our country. You must take a policy very carefully, which will have a cross-party character, so that we can get out of the deadlock sometime. The world is tired and can no longer continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u446	Thank you, Mr. Megalustakas. Mr. Kutsuko, you have asked for the floor. I say that so that we can finish. Do you want to talk after Mr. Karathanasopoulos? I'm asking you because you asked for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u447	Let Mr. Karathanasopoulos speak first.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u448	Come on, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u449	Mr President, the other rapporteurs have asked for a period of two minutes. We only want to talk about the amendment, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u450	Will all the rapporteurs speak? Because, because of the urgency, it's not for you to talk. Because of your dentistry, however, I remember that you had agreed with Mr Kaklamani to speak. Mr. Mandash will close the meeting. As far as I've been informed, the Minister wouldn't want...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u451	The rapporteurs are closing down, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u452	Yes, but one of the ruling party has to shut down. You know that. That's why I said Mr. Mandash was going to close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u453	But Mr Balaurras is a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u454	If need be, I'll speak as rapporteur myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u455	Good. Come on, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, to shorten, because time has passed already. We said it would be a 10-hour meeting and we have exceeded the time. I will give you five minutes and you will have the tolerance, Mr Karathanasopoulos, as will other colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u456	Thank you, Mr President. There is one question to which we must answer clearly: Who is government policy serving? Does it serve the people's needs and their satisfaction or the interests of capital and the needs of the capitalist system? The answer is obvious. Serve with your policy the interests of monopolist groups, the interests of capital and the satisfaction of these interests, you sacrifice the people's needs. There is no second word on that, Minister. So, of course, we agree that your policy is classic, but it is classic for the benefit of capital and at the expense of the working class and the rest of the populace. Why, really, where is the social justice of the measures you take? Is the people in favour of a new tax reduction? You voted for it. Is the increase in VAT in favour of the people? You voted for it. Is it in favour of the people's strata the new pension reduction? You voted for it. Is it in favour of people in favour of an increase in tax contributions, and are you bragging that you have surpluses in the insurance funds and on the basis of these surpluses, can you give social dividends, when you are cutting the pensions, when you are cutting the health and care benefits for the insured and tell them to put their hand in the pocket more and more? And you're proud of the surpluses of the insurance funds. Is the people's favour of reforms that liberate and facilitate business activity in the labour market? The new measures that you will bring to the third assessment who will benefit, who will serve? There is no different answer here, and that is why you also have the credit for the policy pursued by all the imperialist organisations, the European Union, the International Monetary Fund, Germany and the United States. So that's your policy, so that's what you're serving. And from this point of view, there was a whole talk of where the surplus comes from. Does he need a second question? The surplus comes from the slaughter of people's incomes. Who pays for budgetary consolidation? The shipowners are paying, really? Did you take any measure at the expense of the shipowners in their tax treatment? Are the industrials paying? New incentives, new exemptions, new financing. You're actually reducing taxes. But where did you cut them? To the canals. From 20% the TV advertising tax went to 5%. Here, then, who are you serving! And at the same time, you tell the people that you will reduce the tax. So you take it from the many to give it to the few of them to the capitalists. This is your budgetary policy, this is the redistribution you are making. And you come now and say that you want to pursue a socially sensitive policy. Do you know where your social sensitivity is limited? In what our people say: "Let me burn you, Giannis, to lure you oil." Who is responsible for the poverty and impoverishment of wide popular strata? Who is responsible for unemployment? Of course, the capitalist system, which is unfair, profitable and barbaric. But your policy, the policy of the previous governments and the present ones which has led to these consequences, is also responsible for your policy. And you tell them: "Look, don't worry about taking you ten, enough to give you one of the ten we get you." And what are you doing? You are making a real reallocation of poverty. The less poor to pay for the impoverished. And not only are you doing this, that is, redistribution of poverty, but above all you are targeting the conscience of the people, the consciousness of the working class, to convince him to reduce the demands, to live and to ease with the strays of the various solidarity benefits, not to have any demands and claims. You aim above all at the class consciousness of the working class and of the movement itself in an effort to reconstruct, reorganize, organize its struggle for more general and overall ruptures and twists. And that is the character, Minister, of the fair development that you are evangelizing: the rich must become richer and the poorer. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The same logic exists in the issue of dealing with disasters. The same criminal policy is the cause of the recent disasters in the West Attica with the twenty dead, the two missing and the huge losses in property of poor, popular families. Isn't it because of the unregulated capitalist development? Is it not because the earth is property and even that some are speculating on the earth? Is it not due to the lack of an organised spatial planning plan, which will at its heart meet the needs of the people rather than the interests of business groups and capital plans? How many major projects are being done - roads, railways - without the necessary complementary and necessary flooding measures to protect against such issues? Since when has the issue been over here over the fact that priority should be to anti-Semitism and anti-military protection? And instead of that, 'there is no money'. Money, however, is there to finance major-project manufacturers, large businesses and monopolistic groups. That is why we have said that you are actually sacrificing the people's needs on the altar of this profitability. And how do you deal with the results of this criminal policy? You're looking at them again with an emergency allowance. Hey, take an exceptional allowance and make yourself comfortable with it, instead of full compensation to 100% of all the losses suffered. And on the other hand, through lending, you turn them into hostages of bank statements. And in the end, there's a lot of immoral support from both New Democracy and you. The New Democracy accuses you of equipment and mediators, as if this is unprecedented, rather than actually discussing what these equipment is for and who pays these equipment - since Greece in the past twenty years has been in the five countries that pay most for military equipment - which serve the interests of American - naval imperialists, so that Greece's involvement in these designs is further deepened. You're turning it into a hostage of the Americans and the natives to carry out these designs. And on the other hand, your own stubborn sermons for Paradise Papers, offshore companies and tax havens. Does anyone think that with these sermons will change the character of the capitalist system and that this rot will cease? Are you taking any concrete measures? Is the freedom to move capital limited? No restriction. On the contrary, you serve her. Do you raise a question of denomination of the anonymous shares of business groups, of abolishing the various secrets such as corporate, commercial and banking secrets? Of course not! These are the works and trends of the capitalist system. And then you say there won't be offshore companies? Did you ban the operation of offshore companies in our country and in supplies to the public sector? No bans. They work legally! So, what are you talking about? Of course, that is exactly what capitalists will do. They will try to avoid tax burden as much as possible. And that's their target. And that's what you're serving with with. Why, then, are there those "what do they do"? From this point of view, it is provoking itself to address the European Union and the OAS which says that we will hit tax evasion and tax evasion. First of all, avoid tax evasion, legislate with the special tax arrangements for shipowners.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u457	Finish, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u458	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. Secondly, the European Union itself is hosting tax havens. The Netherlands is the largest tax haven, Ireland itself. And we're not talking about the offshore islands. We are talking about these specific countries. So, then, this attempt to deceive workers, that they can suddenly improve and improve things, is dangerous to conscience itself. Why are you doing this? You're pulling a flash to the left, Minister, and you're turning right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u459	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mr Mandas, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor. We will then conclude the procedure by giving the rapporteurs the floor, as requested, for the amendment. There will be no tolerance for anyone. Two minutes each.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u460	But you have, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u461	From now on, there will be no tolerance to complete. I have shown tolerance to the parliamentary representatives who would normally have twelve minutes of speaking. However, because the parties' leaders spoke, their time was reduced, so it is difficult to limit in five minutes the reason they had prepared for twelve minutes. I think that's what you all understand. Here, Mr. Mada, you have the floor for five minutes and you have a relative tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u462	Soon the lights of this Chamber will be wiped out. I know very well and I think we all know that the suffering of people in this region and other areas, especially for the loss of human lives, will not stop. These losses are not overthrown by whatever measures we take. I would just like to add that I must quickly and effectively see what we need to do and be bound by all the wings of this House, by the democratic forces, to move very quickly on to the necessary steps, to the essential steps that the country needs not only in this region but also in the wider sense. Secondly, I should like to add to the concerns that have been raised here - and it was a very big debate - that, unfortunately, I, too, expect to have a serious debate and, listening to each other, listening to the arguments of each other, to move forward. Unfortunately, in most cases, I would say - so that I am not absolute - that matters do not appear to be a common place in what is happening exactly. I would therefore call on all colleagues to read and study the Minutes and the answers that have been given to the various issues that have been raised. It would be useful if we could take a step further in this discussion at the National Representation. At this point, I would like to add two things to the great picture, which I think we need to have in mind when discussing these kinds of issues like those that we have discussed throughout today's debate. The first, ladies and gentlemen, is that last Friday the International Climate Conference in Bonn was completed. I would like to say a word on this, if I may, borrowing some phrases that Kevin Anderson, Professor of the University of Manchester, said, explaining the 2% increase we will have on global carbon dioxide emissions and this year. In an interview with Deutsche Welle, he said: "The West has effectively transferred its industry to offshore areas and we expect the poorest countries with fewer working rights, lower wages and lower environmental conditions to build these goods we consume. And then we blame them on top because carbon dioxide emissions are increasing. I think that's morally suspicious.' That's what Kevin Anderson said. And I say this because in the past 24 hours, at the same time as that in the US Senate, the new Trump administration's programme for tax policy in the United States was passed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I am trying to finish as soon as I can. And we know that the motto was 'Tax Cuts and Jobs Act', that is, a bill on tax exemptions and jobs, which looks like what we hear from the main side of the Officerial Response and is the famous 'trickle-down' - other speakers have mentioned - which means that when wealth runs over the top, it can also run for the poorest strata. I am referring to these two points from the big picture, ladies and gentlemen, to say that at the same time as the reality described by the fact that whatever paper you get you find under the economic and political situation of the country, there is this international image, which is not dealt with - because I hear that view - by trying and trying to do everything we can in certain circumstances - in the specific correlations with the painful compromises we have made - so that we can take things a step further for the social majority and for many. I would also like to say just one word about the fact that I was surprised by the criticism made by the Scientific Committee. And I want, for those in mood and in time, to study the law and the ministerial decision on the previous dividend in 2014. Analyzed how it was given. And I would like to say and ask myself publicly whether, at that time, the Scientific Committee had expressed some opinion on this particular piece of legislation. So I put them both before me and the legislation and the ministerial decision to make a comparison. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Mantas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I come to the last. On a very large scale, since we started the debate on the social dividend, almost all the arguments have been heard. I was here in plenary - where we were discussing, if I am not mistaken, the Law on toys - Mr Denkias said - when the debate was taking place - that it was almost a diversion that there was a statement from the Prime Minister on these measures. At the same time as - I remind you - the New Democracy has tabled an amendment to reintroduce type III prisons, we have been told that we have done this whole process to allegedly cover the case of the Minister of National Defence in relation to the sale of missiles in Saudi Arabia, as well as that we have done it to divert the elections held in the context of the Democratic Association and other forces. So far we have heard that it is a conscious choice for the government to bring the country to a standstill, that it is a conscious choice to undermine the future of the country and move into a material, anti-developmental framework, even though, in order to be able to give the social dividend, we have stolen the money, which we have not spent, from social policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u463	Mr. Mada, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u464	I would like to say that anyone from the National Representation wants to study seriously and in a careful manner all these arguments and all these terrible objections that have developed from the standpoint of Anti-Population, and above all from the side of Officerial Response, I think that if he is well-qualified he can find concrete answers. And I say, ladies and gentlemen, that we can disagree on a lot of things, but I think it is time to make a much more serious and in-depth debate - I imagine we will also do so in the budget - where the country is going. In any case, we have a stable horizon and a fixed compass. We're fighting for the many, not for the few. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u465	Thank you, Mr. Mada. We have also completed with the parliamentary representatives. I will start from Mr Mavrotas and go from the end to the beginning so that Mr Balaurras can close, if necessary, since the Minister has said he will not speak. So you have two minutes, because the reason you are given is for the amendment alone, I am making it clear. You don’t have to deal with and develop any other topics. You have two minutes for the amendment, so that we do not start telling you that we are closing the microphone. Come on, Mr. Mavrota, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u466	I will be in time, Mr President, don't worry. I'm going to start from the legislative improvement, which I think puts things in place. It was something we had requested from the outset, so that there would be one - let us say it - more specific references and that it would not be vague. We had even described it as a white cheque. Now it's getting more specific. We think that in general terms the criteria are in the right direction. With regard to the amendment tabled, on 1349, which deals with Mandra and the compensation to the affected, the EUR 5 000 per home and the EUR 8 000 per business, we are considering the possibility of seeing, Mr Minister, because we have also seen the images of the catastrophe there in Mandra and New Peramos for a large part of them, apart from housing and transport, that there is the possibility of granting aid to those who have actually lost their means of transport. It's estimated, from what I read in articles, about three hundred cars. In this context - of course you are not making any progress in this particular amendment - but in the immediate future, in any subsequent bill to find any such possibility? I think it would be a relief for people who lost, apart from homes and businesses, and the means of transport and cars. If he comes, we will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u467	Thank you, Mr Mavrotas, actually in time. Mr Saridis, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, will you, since I was the rapporteur, but I happen to be chairing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u468	Thank you, Mr President. We will support the amendment. I don't want to say anything about it. I would like to ask the Minister, however, why he did not accept the amendment tabled by the Group of the European Central Bank, where we are talking about a mistake made in Article 2 and which we believe is corrected by this amendment. We would like to have an answer to why you did not accept the amendment from the Union of Centres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u469	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u470	At the end of the day.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u471	Mr Lazarides has the floor on behalf of the Independent Greeks for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u472	Thank you, Mr President. I shall start with Amendment No 1349. Clearly we are positive about the Independent Greeks, as well as with the legislative improvement. That is the way to make it clear. It's a good thing, you know, legal improvement. Minister, in my place I made a report about the people who are hosted, that we should look at them very carefully because people...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u473	There's in the body.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u474	Have they been included?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u476	Good. That is very positive, Minister. That is why I have commented on it. I just wanted to say something else. I wanted to make a comment on the position of Chief of Officerial Response, as well as the other Members of the two parties of the Responsibility, the New Democracy and the PASOK, who are talking about tax reliefs, etc. Clearly, no one disputes that tax is needed today, especially against the freelance professionals, but you know, it avoids, especially the Chief of Staff, talking about the equivalents. "equivalent" is a term that they put into our lives and don't talk about equivalents at all. When they say tax relief - very nice - to tell us. They'll get them out of here and they'll load them there. They're talking about limiting the cost of the state. Two hundred and fifty schools are closed. I guess that's what they're thinking. If the Greek citizen ever gave them the opportunity to govern, so many other schools would be closed. They would close hospitals, as on Thessaloniki they closed a large hospital and are preparing for another hospital.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u477	Mr. Lazaridis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u478	I shall conclude, Mr President. They also charged people with taxes, while they had secured for themselves tax immunity through offshore, because whatever stone we lift under offshore, we will see either New Democracy's executives or PASOK's executives. From both parties, SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks, nowhere will we see such. These are their prerogatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u479	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u480	Thank you, Mr President. We have considered this amendment to be inadequate. It does not respond to the struggles, the damage that the inhabitants have suffered in the West Attica. The losses are not compensated to 100%. They stay out of cars that have been lost, which are indeed means of production for some of their owners. Also, for fishermen who lost their boats, nothing is mentioned in the amendment, as is a number of other issues relating to the loans, their 'fresh', the ETUC. She said, of course, that she would bring another amendment to another bill. Moreover, on a number of other issues discussed by the workers, the trade unions in the region, who have many businesses who have been damaged, their wages have been cut, their insurance, the government has not taken any position. The amendment is therefore inadequate. We, of course, will not vote against because we believe that even the five grand for the residence that has been affected or the eight for the operation is a help. However, this does not respond to all the damage that people have suffered in the region, so we will vote'residents' on this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u481	Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. Mr. Koutsoukos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u482	Mr President, it does not suit you to be so strict. Since the Bureau also has a collective responsibility for the fact that the government is tabling serious amendments after our positions, I will not abuse the time. I'll be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u483	But that was something you agreed on in the first place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u484	With Mr Tsakalotou's legislative improvement, as we pointed out from the day before yesterday, at least we will avoid the vulnerabilities of last year's process. I think it's moving in a positive direction. We are withdrawing our reservations. I note that the government's wording of the 'fifty-third pension' has left. We will insist that, by voting in favour, in order to get the poor and the poor who deserve what they deserve does not mean that we accept the reasoning of the government, because we claim that all of this is a matter of tax bleeding. Two and a half million are the new taxes in 2017. Because with Mr. Tsakalotos, we'll talk about 2015 and we'll be here, I'm stopping. I see him too tired. I'll see you tomorrow. But I cannot answer Mrs Ahtsoglou, who told us that the reduction in pension costs is from the liquidation of outstandings. Hasn't Mrs Ahtsioglou received a hammer that she voted EUR 1,600,000 pension cuts this year? I'm stopping here. We are now coming to the floods. What did I say in my place? I said that we need to see the existing legislative framework how it will be effective. I say, therefore, that there is a well-established procedure, which says that a joint ministerial decision is taken on the basis of which construction is compensated, that companies are compensated for the fixed and goods and that the sums for the repair and reconstruction of the buildings are then allocated. This is a fine, stable process, but it has been proved - and I mentioned the example of Elijah - that many times it is very bureaucratic and inefficient. So the government should, since there was so much discussion here about the responsibilities of the present and the past, see how this process will take place very close to the people, creating a TAS, a TPA or a JEP there in the region. Of course, the State Secretary did not cover us in Mr. Loverd's question. Are these five thousand and eight thousand to be removed from what the standing procedures for construction or damage to businesses provide for, or are they additional? That's what you're going to tell us. We shall therefore vote on it. We believe that the debate that has taken place here is not complete. However, we note the need for the government to move faster and more organised to help the flooders.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u485	It's clear. Thank you very much. You saw that you had the most tolerance of all. I'm going to complain to Mr. Brutsi now that he's following. Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u486	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief too. I am taking the floor, however, because I think it is necessary for me once again to restore the truth to what the Prime Minister said, trying to devastate it once again, misleading the Greek people. I am specific: The Prime Minister's invoicing in his position that this government only took 14.5 billion meters, while the previous ones - who are trying technically to sum them up - took much more, are wrong and misled and society is not telling the truth. In fact, Minister of Finance, in order to compare financial interventions, SYRIZA should normally in January 2015 eliminate any cuts that had been made and impose its own. SYRIZA’s intervention after January 2015 and the new EUR 14.5 billion was after adopting all previous adjustments. So that says what the Prime Minister and SYRIZA are doing is misleading and untrue. Secondly, Mrs Ahtsoglou insisted in a direction that retired people should be given an amount of EUR 315 million and that the government will do so voluntarily, and that we are brave to the pensioners. It's a lie. Mrs Ahtsoglou once again tried to mislead and lie to the pensioners and to the Greek people. What's the truth? The truth is, since January 2015, they imposed 2% on main pensions, imposed 6% on subsidiary and 6% on double masters. This package by SYRIZA for health premiums is about 700 million euros a year. In two and a half years it is 1.7 billion and from 1.7 billion, Minister of Finance, returns 315 million. For me, it is the definition of sorrow that Mrs Ahtsoglou shakes her finger and says "we turn dividends to the pensioners", when she takes 1.7 billion and pays 315 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u487	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. Mr Balaura, you too complete the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u488	Thank you, Mr President. I want to make a few comments. Mr. Mitsotakis in his speech said the Prime Minister went to Sweden. As he said, in order for the Greek people to listen, it is as if they went to 'holidays' and did not go for a specific job. It has indeed raised issues concerning the workers of the country, concerning collective agreements, social and labour acquis. I'm closing this, there's no need for any more comment. With regard to the memorandum that the JRC colleagues have said - it is not here - but other colleagues, we are in a memorandum and we have coercion. But within the Memorandum we find ways to facilitate the lives of people who have been misled for many years, particularly in the crisis. That's what this is about. We're not going to overthrow capitalism. We are trying to find outlets so that these people can survive, try to stand on their feet and in the light that opens up to lost time and lost ground. We therefore do not want benefits. We want another policy. Given this, however, we cannot do anything else. It's a complete mistake what Mr. Mitsotakis and Mr. Brutsis have said repeatedly that the excess that comes out is from tax bleeding. They're familiar, we've been through and I don't want to repeat them. Mrs Ahtsoglou said that it was from savings made within the ECA, beyond the over 300 million that were from increased employment and therefore contributions. I conclude, Mr President, by saying that Mr Denkias - who is a parliamentary representative - has come to say that the bill does not mention anything specific. The regulation, which details them in detail and indeed various colleagues from the opposition, welcomed it because it has important things to do with problems, which may not have been taken over by the ministries since the beginning. In 2014 - Mr. Brutsis remembers very well - they had only one law that said "we give 700 million" without any specification. They made it all by ministerial decision. So that's a philosophical thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u489	500 million.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u490	Yeah, I added. It was free anyway. No one's figured it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u491	Don't start now. You've already escaped. We're in three minutes. Let's close 'cause they're all tired.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u492	I really note Mr Koutsuku's comment, because we have experience from the same prefecture. We must remove the bureaucratic obstacles and the difficulties in applying certain things to the relief of the world. I hope - and Mrs Durou said so - that we see another landscape so that we can get away from this size of bureaucracy. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that it seems to me that while they are voting for the bill and the amendment, they are at the same time burning it down. That's a hypocrisy, it's a phantomism. Is that not an issue, that is, when the parties from left to right beat all the legislation and in the end say that they are voting on it? What can anyone say? The people are judging.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u493	Mr. Balaura, you've been opposition, so you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u494	We have never done that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u495	The Minister has the floor to close the sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u496	I would like a minute, Mr President, because the rapporteur asked me a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u497	I don't give you time. You'll be brief. I'm sure of it. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u498	I, too, agree with our rapporteur that the framework must be simplified. Any ideas we have from people who may have more experience than us in how the system can be simplified are welcome. I am simply saying that we are open to this debate. I cannot answer you in depth for your question, because it is about the Ministry of Labour. We'll see. I contacted the Minister and said he'd look into it in a next phase. I don't have the point, because it's only about pension. I will only make one final comment. I think the political forces have a choice. Or they'll keep saying their opponents are lying and that they're liars or they won't talk about the toxicity in politics. Both can't do it. Make a decision. In relation to all that you accused Mrs Ahchioglu, the Prime Minister and me of being a lie, we very mildly explained what was happening. You can disagree, but if you think we're lying and only lying, then don't make any sermons for toxic reason. Or one or the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u499	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as in force, on 17-11-2017: Criminal forensics relating to the Minister of National Defence, Mr Panagiotis Kammenos and the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, Mr Panagiotis Kourublis. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principles, articles, amendment and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Social dividends and other provisions' is adjourned. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u501	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u503	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u504	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u508	The draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Social dividends and other provisions’ was therefore accepted in principle by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments and they will be voted on separately. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u510	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u512	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u513	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u517	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u519	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u521	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u526	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u528	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u530	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u531	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u533	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u535	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1349 and a special number of 220?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u537	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u539	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u540	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u542	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u544	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1349 and a special 220 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u548	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u549	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u551	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u553	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. The draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Distribution of social dividends and other provisions’ was therefore accepted in principle and in the articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u557	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u560	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u562	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Distribution of social dividends and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u563	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u564	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-20-S1-commons.u565	With the consent of the House at 22.50 ́ the meeting for tomorrow, Tuesday, 21 November 2017, on the subject of the House's work: legislative work, discussion and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: a. Repeal of the State's State's Report, 2015, b. Clear the State's Balance Sheet, financial year 2015.
