ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the essential part of the meeting, the topical questions, I shall refer briefly with my introductory speech to the anniversary of Mother's Day, which is held annually on Sunday, May 2, in most countries in the world since 1908. Mother's Day is a special celebration of honor and memory to each man's most precious companion in this life. It is the day of "thank you" that we personally owe to the creature what brought us into the world and it is for us all the world, until we stand and enter this world, the man we lived within nine months and do not want to separate ourselves. The poet alibi describes this relationship with his well-known words: "Mana, he screams at the child, mother the young and mother the old man, you listen to every place. Aah! what a sweet name’. And how painfully does the poet separate her from her by writing: “And to your hands, which they sprinkled, how will the cold earth make them dirt?” Mother's Day is a day of honor to motherhood that each society owes not only to words but also to works, to this sacred institution that protects the regeneration of society and transfers values, principles and ideals from generation to generation. The Greek society with strong elements of the traditional family took a long time to institutionalise the protection of maternity in the public and private life of the country. The sweeping democratisation of the institutions legislated in the 1980s brought revolutionary changes in the protection of maternity at work and the position of the mother within the family. In the field of work by special law in 1984, any discrimination based on sex, vocational guidance, recruitment, development and remuneration was prohibited. Later, the same year, parental leave and the absolute protection of pregnant and young mothers were introduced. In the family, the woman has a equal role as a man and a common share in family weights. The equalization of children inside and outside the marriage was institutionalised in 1983 and the position of single mother was strengthened. Mother's Day is undoubtedly the day of memory of the orders of the original Mother's Day, which calls on women to build another world, a world of peace, a world without wars and conflicts, a world that will not force them to lose their children and their men in wars. Mothers write in the declaration of 1870: “Get up, all of you, women with a heart! They will not take our sons away to make them forget everything we have managed to teach them, humanity, mercy and patience. We, the women of our country, will not let our children hurt the children of the mothers of another country. From the breasts of the destroyed land a voice comes out and joins ours. It says: Disarmament! Disarmament!’. That was the proclamation. Women's Day is not a personal celebration. It is a celebration that reminds us that mothers are our own life, which we must listen to throughout our lives, to create a peaceful world, a world that will save the planet that is at risk from the various unbalanced ones, threatening to blow it out of the air with a nuclear war. The House today pays the due tribute to the mother. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS According to the Secretary-General of the Government, there are four topical questions which will be answered today. These four questions are two of Mr Kegeroglou, one of Mr Katsaniotis and one of Mr Michus. Minister, Mr. Kegeroglou, the first two to call them together or separately?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u2	It's the same object.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u3	It's the same object. Good. The third with number 821/9-5-2017 will be discussed in the third time question of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of "in desperation of thousands of farmers who have rented land with rights (Format 6) - two years now they have not received any aid". Also, the first question will be discussed under number 446/18-10-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the serious problems faced by farmers. Mr. Kegeroglu, would you like to have four minutes of protology and similar denology or separate?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u4	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u5	All right, you got four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u6	And if need be, we'll say a little bit more after the completion. Mr President, first of all I will endorse what you have said about mother. I am making special reference to the Greek mother who, through the great effort made by the country over the past decades, also had this own contribution. More particularly, I'm going to make a reference to the rural mother who, especially before the 1980s, was fighting under adverse conditions. I have personal experiences. I mention my own mother, who was a farmer because of my father's disability, and I had experienced the struggle she had in order to be able to support her family, like all rural mothers, through agricultural production. We see that the years have changed today. Things have improved in relation to technology, science, media. The real problems of the economy have been reduced, but there are problems which we ourselves are putting as governments, as parliament, as red tape and we must immediately lift them, because the fight of farmers can actually yield and help the national economy as well. How can this be done, however, when we constantly want to cover the budgetary gaps through a sector that has always been supported and must continue to rely on, why is a national economy, a society from the agricultural sector, more generally? It is therefore unacceptable to speak of the 22-45% rate of taxation on income and not to talk about excise duties at all, such as in wine, which, as we have already pointed out at the time, but also of the cooperative organisations and the Association of Greek Wine and the Interprofessional Organisation, would pay very little income, as was done, while at the same time we see a huge increase in the market in this sector. VAT increased from 13% to 24%. This is the only problem that creates problems. It is now heard - and it is good - that the government is reviewing and reducing VAT in some sectors from 24% to 13%. To abolish also the wine tax, to reinstate what was in place before the third memorandum, to keep the positive. There may be some positive. Let the Minister keep the positives and remove the negatives. Farm production is going to pay for it. The theory that we are protecting small farmers and that is why we are not putting a great deal of tax on low incomes is not rational. First of all, it creates a trap of poverty. He tells you: "Make a poor farmer with a little income or find ways to tax," because if you get over a height and over income, they take your head with the whole system of tax rates and insurance contributions that will reach 27% in three years. There are also problems with the implementation of the programmes. So we have a specific problem and the so-called 'Porma 6' has been created. When people who had land and received subsidies rented the entire property to young farmers or others, they ceased to be active farmers in the form of no subsidy. As for the young people who have been taken, because they have not exactly completed an information column in this regard last year, a huge issue has been raised and they have not been considered to be beneficiaries of the subsidy. This is an issue that seems to be employing two categories, but it is linked. Of course, there is also one issue for the young farmers who joined in 2009, who did not actually get all the aid they were entitled to, that is, instead of forty thousand in total, have received only twenty, and that is why there is an interpretation of a regulation which, in my view, can, with a broad interpretation, cover the issue, but that has not been done so far. We would like the Minister to answer us first of all how he intends to deal with the problem with the so-called 'Forma 6', and of course how to restore what has arisen for young farmers, the enormous injustice. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. The Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr Evangelos Apostolos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u8	First of all, Mr President, I too agree with what you have said about the role of mother. We must as a state and as a society really serve the role of the mother. And because Mr. Kegeroglou particularly referred to the rural mother, all those who were born and raised in the villages, we saw a mother following father throughout the rural activity and when the father came home, the father could go out, sit in the cafeteria an hour. The mother next hour until night to deal with the love of the house. So you realise that its role was indeed much more beneficial in rural areas and with a great deal of opportunity to offer to what we call rural areas. Mr. Kegeroglu, don't worry, it will be this afternoon's agreement bill tomorrow. There you will see that not only will there be no additional taxation for the Greek farmer, but we are already entering a road where interventions will be made from now on with the main aim of reducing production costs. I'm stopping here because I can't move. I come to the question you have put, and I really accept your anxiety. It is an agony to know that we have it too, because there was indeed a problem with the rights granted to farmers in the period 2013-2014 that we had problems specifically with leased rights. I want to make it clear that it's one of the problems we've inherited, Mr. Kegeroglu. I do not want to say with this that if it were us then and this regulation came, we would not vote for it, but we have to understand that at this time there is a regulation that unfortunately cannot be overcome. But I have told you and I repeat that we are doing everything we can to restore the injustice that has been done to these young farmers. We in the first moment of our governance have pointed out in writing to DG AGRI the huge problem that has been created by the loss of the value of rights, mainly affecting family incomes. Because most of these are domestic transfers. The issue has not been solved. We are told by the European Commission - and the phrase is specific - that 'the main provisions of the Rules of Procedure are raised'. However, given that a debate has started since 2016 to amend this regulation in the context of 'omnibus', namely the review that will take place this year, we have again submitted our request to the services of the European Commission in order to find the appropriate legal wording in this article, so that we can amend the regulation to resolve the problem. We always raise this issue, not only in the Councils of Ministers but also in the meetings that we have with the Commissioner in Brussels and in both of these meetings in October and March. The debate on this subject was also made public in both cases. So we do what we can. After all that we have done so far, our services have a long cooperation with the respective services of the European Union in order to accept a legal wording that will be able to deal with this particular problem. The review procedure has not been finalised. We believe that within the issues that we have raised, and that there has been a first acceptance by the Commissioner, we will see how they will be implemented and dealt with. At the same time, OPEKEPE has systematically worked. We are ready once the legal obstacles have been lifted to restore all the injustice that has been done to these farmers, who held leased direct payment entitlements, have unfortunately lost them because of the interpretation made in this regulation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u9	Please, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u10	Minister, overtaxation in the agricultural sector is present. He's not coming in now. It has already been imposed through specific provisions that you have voted on. What is required is to return to lower levels. One way is de-escalation. As I told you, it sounds like it will be reduced to some supplies from 24% to 13%. We must see that this is not enough. In other words, the crime with the wine tax which led to the increase in the market, a huge increase in undeclared quantities on the market and a little revenue, should you not treat it? Will the wine tax be abolished? It's a question. Let us see that at the same time there is a matter for the Rural Development Programme. We're still stuck at the beginning. The program is 2014-2020 and we are still stuck in the beginning, in the announcements and in the announcements. And not all of them have come out. For example, we have now made a huge effort to get the 4.2.1 out, now we are calling for the 4.2.2 to come out and there is a tactical link between the General Secretariat, the Ministry, the OPECE, the ELGA and I do not know which other co-legislators and do not come up with a simple ministerial decision. It is said that the OPS system has a huge problem, as has been structured. Look at it, Minister, because the Agricultural Development Programme of 6 billion is indeed a financial instrument, a lever that can give some solutions. All solutions cannot be given in relation to the strengthening of agricultural production. Some solutions can be found. I now come to 'Porma 6' and to the question of young farmers. Minister, I do not accept what you said about Forum 6, as I did not accept it when I put it to you a year and a half ago. You have to bear in mind that you are almost two and a half years Minister, the longest minister in the last ten years, not to say any more. You can't invoke the past. You have longer Minister than anyone else. Look at it. So we come to see what 'Format 6' is. "Forma 6" is an inexperience of the Greek State, OPEKEPE, the Ministry of Rural Development, whoever you want, who did not thoroughly inform the producers that would rent in relation to the existing ones. Therefore, this omission of the Greek State must be corrected by the Greek State. The European Commission has nothing to do with it. With retroactive force, these declarations must now be made. Give a new deadline. Should have been in 2015, it had to have been in 2016, do it at least now. The committee has nothing to do with this. It is a question of omission from the Greek government, from the Greek administration and can be covered in this way. We will not only make amendments with retroactive or non-retroactive force for smuggling. It's not just the laws for dealing with interests. They must also apply to restoring injustices. Here and now I challenge you to legislate. There is no need for the European Commission. No regulation is affected. Where you need and are partly right, the revision or interpretation, if you wish, of the regulation is on the issue of young farmers, whether the young farmers who joined the 2009 programme are part of the care of this regulation, five years old, etc. This is something specific, and I believe that the committee, which you have decided to set up - to which we have also sent a representative for our part to table our views and positions - can find a code of communication with the Commissioner and, in general, with the European Commission in order to amend and resolve this. But to God! The other issue is clearly ours. We will not go to the European Union or to the UN. Is it possible to ask the UN to resolve a matter that is purely national? They're purely national. It doesn't hit a rule. We did not implement the regulation as the regulation should. It's the other one, the other one. So it's up to the administration to restore it. And I would like you to tell me, Minister, whether they are based on what has been announced by the Vice-President of OPEKEPE in relation to the possibility of resolving the issue through the retention of 5% of subsidies, with a ratio of I think 3-2, as has been said, so that through that - and if it is administratively resolved - the problem can also be resolved in practice by paying subsidies for the previous years. That is, the subsidies lost for 2015 and 2016, to be paid through this process. I want you to tell me if this is the Ministry's decision and when it will be launched. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u12	Mr Colleague, we had a question for the Rural Development Programme the other day, and we answered it. What I have to tell you is that we've already exceeded 1.7 billion in notices of measures that have been taken. The programming is until the end of 2017 to get close to 3 billion. So, as you can see, we are entering a course where this tool - and we have no more - must use it as efficiently as possible for the rural area. With regard to taxation, to which you have referred again, I have the following to say: neither has there been overtaxation of the rural area to date. You know, in fact, that in 2017 in particular, there will be tax advance payments in over 85% -90% of Greek farmers. And, of course, from there on - and on the basis of the income declared - there will be no additional burden over the previous years. There'll be relief. In particular, and with what comes under the agreement, things will get better. On the other point you raise, I would like to say to you: because we have a problem with the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, and you know, the Greek Parliament also knows that, unfortunately, we have had fines and charges for years because of the misinterpretation and management of Community funds, we are trying as much as possible not to show up to these kinds of issues again. We have therefore put this issue in a process in the context of the revision. If this process is really complete and it is not accepted - and we believe that what we have requested will be accepted - we will find a procedure, because we are indeed committed to restoring the injustice that has been done to these young farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, if you are kind, I would like to ask the Minister for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u14	Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor outside the Rules of Procedure, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u15	Minister, is it within your intention to restore injustice and also to get lost aid for the past two years?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u16	If injustice is restored, we will find the resources to satisfy all their rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, nine students and students and a teacher of their meetings by IEK Kifisias, a department of journalism. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, I have the honour to announce to the House the issue of Monday's Question Time on May 15, 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 807/8-5-2017 by MP Lassithi of the New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Placiotakis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy about the total weakening of the Greek Register. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. - The question asked by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister of the Interior about the cleaning of the Tsiknia, Mylopotamou and Gagadeli rivers in Lesvos. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 808/8-5-2017 by MP Athens, New Democracy, Anna - Michel Asmakopoulou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the television signal in remote areas. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 825/9-5-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on the cancellation of the certificates of people with chronic illnesses from the Centres for Disability Certification (KEPA). 3. The question by No. 723/11-4-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Sakis Vardalis, on the loss of life due to the tragic shortages in emergency medicine in the Regional Unit of Halkidiki. 4. The current question by MP Pella of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Ioannis Sahinides to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the "fast increase in unemployment in Kastoria on Government SYRIZA". 5. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, concerning the activation of the decision on the pilot study of the Argos' Zone of Economic Control (ZOE). 6. The Question by Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the support and upgrading of the TEI Messologist. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 504/20-2-2017 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about "the fulfilment of the Order of the Nation". 8. The Question No 602/14-3-2017 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the licenses of assistant teachers. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of its Rules of Procedure). (Parliament adopted 1. The question asked by MP Elias of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, entitled "to shed plenty of light on the works and days of Mr. Kalogritsa with his funding from Attica Bank and to take up roadworks of the Patras - Pyrgos section". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniatis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport about economic suffocation in public transport. 3. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Health about the "difference of the Ministry of Health for the Zakynthos Hospital". I also know that the following fourteen questions will not be answered: The first, under number 820/9-9-5-2017, top-level question of the first cycle of the Eotolokarnamia coalition of the Radical Left, Maria Triantafylou, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the upgrading and utilization of the archaeological cultural product of the Prefecture of Itolokarnania, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister of Culture and Sports Mr. Konordos abroad. The fifth question, under number 810/8-5-2017, of the first cycle of the Athens MP Mr.Georgios Amyras, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the hours of museums and archaeological sites during the summer season, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister of Culture and Sport Mr. Konordos abroad. The first, with number 806/8-5-2017, topical question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios State, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the destruction of the fishing fields of the Thracian Sea by Turkish fishermen, will not be discussed due to the lack of competence of the Ministry. Also, they will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the relevant ministers and the following questions will be redefined for discussion: The second, under number 805/8-5-2017, timely question from the first cycle of the Prime Minister of Athens, Mr. Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Finance, on the meeting of the Prime Minister with representatives of the investment bank Rothschild, will not be discussed because of the impediment of the Minister. Cause, Mr. Juliarakis' workload. The fourth under number 823/9-5-2017 topical question of the first cycle of MP for the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the problems of the operation of Alexandria TEI of Thessaloniki will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Kostas Gavroglou. The tenth under number 727/11-4-2017 a topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the announcement by ELME Thessaloniki on the transmission of the TV game Survivor, will not be discussed due to a workload of the Minister. The workload is not a clear reason, because everyone has a workload. But that is up to every minister. The second, under number 809/8-5-2017, topical question by the Independent MEP, Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the need to integrate into the objectives of reducing the problematic loans for small business debts, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Economy and Development, Mr Papadimitriou. Cause of unsuccessful obligations. The third, with number 701/6-4-2017, a topical question for the second parliamentary cycle of the Centroon Association Mr.Theodoras Megalonou to the Minister of Health, concerning the closure of local hospitals of kindness - Charagis Keratsinios from the 2nd Health Area of Attica, will not be discussed as a result of the blockade of the Minister of Health Mr. Xanthos. Cause of unsuccessful obligations. The question and application under number 3354/274/10/10/2017 of the new Republic of Athens MP, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "regarding the arrest of a foreign dentist with the category of money laundering in the structure of Amydaleza", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. Also, the seventh question under number 402/27-1-2017, the second question of the Greek MP, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the reduction of the cost of diagnostic tests for breast cancer, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Polakis. Cause, workload. The sixth question under number 648/24-3-2017 of the Evian MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Health, concerning: "the deliberate improper execution of a covenant that provides for the establishment of an oncological clinic in Chalkida", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by Minister Polakis. The eighth Question No 720/11-4-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DMAR Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the need to drastically reduce the excessive charges for consumers by PPC, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr Stathakis. Cause, workload. The ninth under number 721/11-4-2017 is a topical question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, concerning delays in the implementation of the project to extend the suburban between Patras and West Achaias, is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr. Spirtzi. Eleventh, under number 367/20-1-2017, a topical question by Evia MP Evia of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of the Interior, on the "inadmissible displacement of thirty-six thousand seven hundred sixty-sixteen Greek children from day-to-day stations" is not discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Skourletis. We now move on to the discussion of the fourth under number 700/6-4-2017 topical question from the New Democracy MP, Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the delay in the procedures for the application of sub-measure 6.1 ‘Installation of Young Farmers’. Please, Mr Katsaniotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, thank you. Mr Minister, this question was first tabled at the end of March. As you can see, it is constantly re-enacted, so we will go a little further, because the time has come for three months to realize that it has passed. Problems remain. Two extensions were given in four months to the Young Farmers' Programme. It took four months to open the information system, so that the applications could get in. On the other hand, the first reviews a week ago. The second problem concerns the statements made by the IACC. On May 15, it was the end date. The people who declared and applied for the programme of young farmers, unfortunately, did not know whether their application for young farmers was accepted on the one hand, who entered the programme, said of IACS, or whether they should not have told the IACC rights, because if they said they would not have the right to enter the programme of young farmers. The last moment was granted a one-month extension for CIU declarations. All at the last minute. Plus another problem: The first assessors who started the evaluations a few days ago will be paid for the files, Minister? You know, it's a job that the DACCs are doing out of time and with very little staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u19	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u20	First of all, Mr Colleague, let us make one thing clear. Farmers will have no problem with the submission of IACS, indiscriminately at what time the evaluation will be completed. That's the sovereign. But I will answer you in the order you have put the questions, starting with the first. You ask why we proceeded with the communication of the measure, since the e-assessment process accompanying it was not ready in the first place. We did have a problem with the IT system. First of all, the measure for young farmers was announced in November 2016. What's our target? I think we all agree that it is the renewal of the age composition of the rural area and, of course, the possibility of creating as many jobs as possible in the rural area. The public expenditure on this measure exceeded EUR 240 million. Fourteen thousand sixteen hundred seventy applications were submitted. A request condition was for the applicant to have submitted at least one declaration to the IACC. Therefore, the invitation could only be made within a period of time following the completion of the submission of the declarations. Of course, as you can see, we are talking about last year's statements to at least one point of reference. In view of all this, therefore, we chose to submit applications during this period and not during the summer of 2017, so as a reference point it would be the next period. Indeed, there has been a delay in the completion of the information system, totalling sixty days. That's the delay. Why? Because the SEA is at a time when it develops its information system for the Rural Development Programme. The TSF's experience so far concerned information systems in the NSRF. There were no such possibilities, no appropriate adjustments had been made to enable it to meet the requirements of the Rural Development Programme. Of course, this delay is in no way enough to justify delaying the submission of declarations for almost one year. That's not all. I am the one to tell you that there have been many problems in this process. But, in any case, the relevant assessments have been launched since 12 April, and at this time they are evolving under the responsibility of the thirteen regions of the country, which, as you know, are bodies implementing this measure. For having allocated 37.5% of the resources of the Rural Development Programme, we have also allocated concrete measures and actions. I will tell you in my denture about the big problem you have raised, whether they are losing or not losing their rights, namely young farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme "Workery of Democracy" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-two students and students and an educational attendant from the I.M. School. PANAGOTOU. The House welcomes them. Mr. Andreas Katsaniotis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is clear that the delay in the programme for young farmers is too great. You are the Minister for two and a half years and what I would expect to hear - and what I expect to hear in your dentistry - is, firstly, the reasons for the delay, secondly, what will happen with the next programmes that we have before us. You know the worst thing in the time we're living is the chicken fights and the fights about who's to blame. Out there farmers, the part of the primary sector, the most powerful part, for me, of Greek production, awaits. The processing programme already came out. At the same time, there is also the part of the processing, up to six hundred thousand, which will be run by the regions. Do you think the DRLs have the potential? This will be delayed. He'll be delayed a few months. What about the programme for the scientists who are going to enter the agricultural sector? When will it be? You know, you're leaking, you say they're going to start programs in one, two or three months and go seven, eight or nine. What is needed at the moment for Greek primary production is dates that will be observed for the first time. The fact that the previous ones were not observed is not an excuse. Dates, deadlines, should be respected for the first time in that country. To know all those who want to invest when, how, by what process. That's what's important, that's what we should have in mind. A characteristic example is: You know, Minister, that the part of the cooperatives and producer groups is a very important part. It's been a law. It's your law. Did the ministerial decisions come up? Did they come out in circles? Did things go wrong? This is not just about codification or intentions. It is important that policies should be able to reach and apply where they really produce, to those who really invest and - not to forget - to those scientists who lift the burden. These are the ones you keep forgetting. The measure concerning the consultants goes back and, Minister, it should be the first thing you'd get. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u23	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u24	It does not mean that if a minister is at this point more time, all problems are solved by magic. So let's get one thing straight. The Rural Development Programme was approved in December 2016. The programme submitted - a plan - by the previous government has been returned to us. I am not one of those who want to get away, paradoxically, but to make this clear: from December 2016 until now - in the sixteen months of its implementation - payments have actually been made that have not been made in previous years. We talked about this yesterday in the relevant question. However, as far as the notices are concerned, we already have ECU 1.65 billion so far. By the end of the year, we'll go to 3 billion. It's 4,7 billion and we have a five-year period ahead of us. We are trying as far as possible to ensure that the notices are made in such a way as to allow rational and appropriate use. We have the improvement plans. What are we going to do about improvement plans? Are we going to discuss again how much tractor this and this area is going to get? So you see, these are not just problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u25	But you don't put the peaches...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u26	So we are entering a process in which we really have satisfactory results. As you specifically referred to young farmers, there was indeed a problem with the Information System, but this problem - I repeat again - was about the inability of the information system to predict what the rural area needs. For the first time, we have the implementation and certainly there is a delay. It does not, however, mean that this delay will particularly affect the Young Farmers Programme. I repeat again: fourteen thousand sixty-seven applications have been submitted throughout the territory. In seven regions of the country - Attiki, South Aegean, North Aegean, Epirus, Central Greece, Peloponnese and Ionian Islands - there are no constraints. It is something that has been closed to be informed. So there is no object to the question of whether candidates should wait for the completion of the evaluation and then submit an IACC declaration. This thing's closed. We are now coming to the other regions, where demands regarding the number of farmers are more. We will try there as far as possible to make some overcompensation so that the rest can be met. However, this does not mean that from other regions, which have fewer requests than available amounts, we will take them all. We will try to reach agreement with the regions themselves, because the regions, as I have told you, are already in the management of these, so we are really not going to have any problem. Since, in fact, it has been extended by one month and the submission of the IACC declarations, in fact even in those cases where a declaration application has not been in place since last year, the IACC declaration can then be submitted and used to evaluate young farmers already not completed in the areas that have not been completed. My dear colleague, the Rural Development Programme is a programme that is the only instrument that can help us in this effort to support rural areas. I would like to conclude by saying that as far as the OGA is concerned - because you refer to him - they have the right to submit a registration declaration to him and after six months of their census in the register of Farmers and Farmers, as, under the law, the decisive period for the fulfilment of these obligations is the two-month period rather than the six-month period. In other words, we are responding to a problem that has arisen. Also, in the case where rights have been transferred and if they want to delay the submission of IACS, this can be done until the lists of approved projects are posted. They have this right to submit it by then. So, in other words, we are trying to give solutions to any problem that exists and appears particularly through evaluation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u27	Minister, with your tolerance, I would like a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u28	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u29	You didn't say about the part concerning the fee for the file. As of now, the assessments from the DRLs have been launched.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Casaniotis, you cannot quantify.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u31	I'll just ask. It is very important for those who do the evaluations, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u32	Ask and we'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u33	Is there going to be the reward? They're doing it out of time. It's people who don't take traveling when they go and see damage. Is that the responsibility of the Ministry or regions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u34	Listen. The services are obliged to respond to the responsibilities of their work.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u35	It's out of time, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u36	You know there's a huge lack of staff problem. From there on, whether there will be an additional fee or not, it is within the scope of the public budget that we can pay those obligations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u37	It was subsidized by the program, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u38	Let us not open any more doors now. We will see that, however, within the framework of the programme, if they can be satisfied.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u39	We continue with the fifth under the number 676/31-3-2017 topical question of the second Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on 'the retention of part of the OPEKEPE grants due to a failure to pay a contribution to the Directorate-General for Improvements'. Mr. Micho, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, a small parentheses about the previous question that Mr Paulakis has not asked again. A little respect for cancer patients. At least he has to give an answer, not to me, but to the people who are waiting. Because there's a donation from a particular person to build this particular unit. And on the other hand, there are some 'brows' waiting for them to get what's in this fund, let's say so. On this subject, which I see is being debated very much. And, of course, it's debated because it's for the farmers, what's left of us. At the end of the day, therefore, farmers have come from imposing a fine through the retention of part of the OPEKEPE subsidies. This has caused severe reactions because, due to a justified failure to pay the levy to the Directorate-General for Improvements, there is an automatic fine for cross-compliance, which is 9% on the OPEKEPE grant. It is worth asking how one agency is to impose a fine on another. Questions, Mr Minister: How does the GOE relate to OPEKEPE and on the basis of what regulation is the fine for OPEKEPE subsidies due to a failure to pay a contribution to OEKEB? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u41	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u42	Mr Colleague, there is a specific regulation of the European Union, 1306/2013, and there is a relevant ministerial decision on cross-compliance. Farmers who use the irrigation networks of TWG Improvement Agencys - GEBs should comply with the organisation's rules of operation and provide assurance if they are requested by the audit authorities. According to a Ministry's decision OPECE was requested to create a computerised application to which the Improvement Agencys are responsible registered by farmers who do not comply with this Regulation. In such a case, the OPECE shall not automatically impose a reduction in aid in the context of cross-compliance, but shall send a notification to the farmer referred to, requesting it to provide the relevant certificate of compliance by the relevant IMP. Since the certificate in question is not produced, the specific regulations, which provide for a 3% reduction in aid for the first infringement, apply. If there is a repetition within the next two years, then it enters 9%. And since there is a second repetition of non-compliance with water use, then 15% enters. Mr President, the farmers must understand at some point and it must be understood that the aid, whether we want it or not, is accompanied by specific regulations. We already have the big issue - and the process is completed - relating to water pricing. It does not mean that there will be a fee with the invoicing. We need to make that clear. This regulation, however, relating to the improvement of projects under the Rural Development Programme, in order to be able to call this measure, has the heresy of invoicing water. So you realise that all of this creates us such a framework that, if we do not comply, the consequences, whether from here or from there, will be before us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u43	Mr Michos has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u44	Thank you. I do not understand either, nor the farmers, because this has been the case recently with water. Water is a good that God has given us for a thousand two uses. Why should the water be taxed? Who among the people who impose these measures on us has given money for a drilling that has been done by farmers, for the wells opened by their ancestors and so on.Huh? Have you seen what's going on in the canal Canal right now? Have you seen what state they're in? And they ask, however, that these funds be collected from there. Have you seen what's going on in other areas? Are we going to be South America, where MONSANTO even taxed on the sterns, small villages, farmers, who have grown just for themselves? Is there going to be a tax on rainwater? Because that's why it's going slowly, slowly, as we see. I wish he'd stay here, we don't talk about it. On the other hand, why is any service of the state - not only with your own government, but also with the previous ones - that collects such as tax, such as the service that gives the hot spots, working perfectly, working perfectly both for farmers and farmers? You know very well - you are from a rural prefecture - that if the farmer does not get his subsidies on time - delays have been made for years - he will lose the good price for his feed in the summer. Then - you know - once they're in the warehouse, the cost is up. The same applies to the farmer. He has a big problem with sowing, with fertilisers, when he hasn't got his funding. That is how the previous governments have come to expect subsidies - and that is not why your Government - the farmer and the farmer, not production. And that's a set-up plan. They referred to the programmes beforehand. We hope that the new programmes will come out as soon as possible and that you will help the farmers and farmers of Thrace, the remote islands, because that is where they bear and thermopylae. Their role is important. Don't be Kosovo. You said you would help farmers in 2015 by election. But what we have seen so far is overtaxation. And when we say overtax, it's overtax. It is not possible for zero and straw, the most basic feedstuffs, to have VAT of 24%, even though it has been heard today - and I have heard it personally on the radio - that it will be reduced. It is a wish that this is done, because it will really help farmers very much. If farmers and farmers are helped, Mr Minister, they are the weapon at the moment of our country to move forward and raise our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u46	Mr Colleagues, in order to move forward and to address the great problem of Kopaida, which you have said, and other areas too, we need to make improvements. Enhanced projects mean that we need to look for resources. The resources we have are from the Rural Development Programme, which of course imposes heresy. We will follow them by trying at least not to have additional financial implications. From there on, I do not want to extend to the agreement that comes, but you can be sure that too many issues have caused problems in rural areas, particularly in production costs, will be dealt with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, just a minute if I may. A simple proposal: you could instead of giving the VAT, for example, to HOCHTIEF or to some other Greek tycoons, let's say that, some money from them could be given there, so that these jobs of late improvements can be done properly, or wherever it takes for farmers and farmers rather than depriving them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u48	Let me tell you that even looking at the figures relating to the taxation of farmers with all aids, you will see that 85% -90% of farmers are primarily of interest to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u49	Thank you. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-12-S1-commons.u50	With the consent of the House at 11.05 p.m. the sitting is closed for Monday, May 15, at 18.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: parliamentary scrutiny, a debate on topical and urgent questions.
