ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House that, in the context of the exercise of the "PARMENES -2017", on Tuesday 3 October 2017, a test activation of the Greek Parliament's siren will be carried out, as follows: 11.00 hours local time, air strike alarm signals for a sixty-second duration. Local time 11.05 ́, alarm expiration marking for a sixty-second duration. The activation of the civil defence alarm siren has a purely test purpose and therefore there is no need for confusion or concern. We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Start with the first 1529/26-9-2017 top-level question of the first cycle of the Athens Parliamentary Assembly of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Protection of the countryside of Pikermio Attica". The Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy will answer Mr Socrates Famelos. Mrs. Kafantaris has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u2	No, just two minutes. Three and two minutes, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u3	It's two and three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u4	Good morning, Mr. President, Minister. In our previous topical question, which we had asked in May 2016, we reported that Greece is from the pioneer countries in the establishment of the European Geoparks Network, which now join in 2015 under the auspices of UNESCO. However, the existing institutional measures for the protection of geotopes are based on Law 1650/86, as amended by Law 3937/11. However, agriculture is not directly protected. The existing institutional framework is not, in practice, sufficient for the protection of geotopes, it is not protected on analogy, as the living environment is protected. It is therefore necessary to provide for a straightforward protection of the geotopes, without the need to respect any proven time-consuming administrative procedure. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has recently drawn up a report on the protection of soils. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Charaka (Harou) Kafantaris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would like to mention the Attica Pickermi, which is an important defective position, which needs immediate protection. It is considered by the scientists of the kind and as an acropolis of paleontology. I submit to the Minutes and an article in the newspaper "ASTY" from 1 May 1901 on Pickermi. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Charaka (Harou) Kafantaris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why am I saying that? Since the time of bavarian rule, this region has been known and has since become known the amazing fossils of animals brought to light by the excavations in the well-known merry of Penteli in Great Rema. I would also like to mention that in geological time, i.e. scientific, there is a subdivision of the past of the earth as a pirate, which shows the great importance. However, there is no museum of natural history in Greece, specifically and paleontological history especially in Attica, while all the museums of natural history in the world have the rare exhibits of Pikermio. In Greece, however, it is not exposed to any specific area. So I would say that the panic composition seven million years ago refers to an environment of African savannah with characteristic fossils: provoskids, rhinos, giraffes, horses, knifes, little mammals, etc., while giant turtles were found. So this rich fauna has attracted the interest of scientists. So, on the basis of what I mentioned, what action will you take, Minister, given the Ministry's desire for immediate and straightforward protection of geotopes and geological formations? What actions are you going to take immediately to protect Pickerimio, the acropolis, that is, Paleontology at a global level?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantari. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Kafantaris, thank you very much for the question and, of course, for the consistency you have shown, because this question follows on from the previous one. You may allow me to reply in my first answer to the questions of agriculture and then to look at the Pickerimio issue. It is a fact that our country has an important place in Europe's geological map and it is also one of the pioneering countries in the establishment of the European Geoparks Network. We must say that five areas of our country are already in the world's geoparents, and this is about the Desert Forest of Lesbos, Psiloritis, Sitia, the Vikkos - Aou National Park, and the Psiloritis National Park in the Peloponnese. What we need to note is that the promotion, promotion and management of the geoparks gives prospects for sustainable development, as they can at the same time be elements of a quality tourist destination. The presence of nature can at the same time give education and environmental training, as well as rural functions. Based on the evidence of your question, we have conducted an investigation and we have also found that n.3937/2011 categorizes the land and gives the possibility of proclaiming a national or regional farmland, as well as their designation as a protected landscape or protected natural formation and, where appropriate, as a preserved monument of nature. It is true that for these designations only in the case of nature protection, we can lead to a rapid delimitation, characterisation and management plan, and otherwise we have loose ends. So I have to tell you first of all - because we have to resolve a big issue - that for the regions. We also have evidence of the protection of the natural environment, habitats or elements of the orphan species, which are protected in a specific catalogue, yesterday our Ministry signed the Act on the preparation of specific environmental studies for all areas of the NATURA 2000 network. This is also one of the very long delays that our country had, since it did not have management plans and presidential decrees for these regions. In the context of this national project, all the elements of the natural environment in which the land is located will be examined. There will also be presidential decrees on the wider protected areas. But for the geological formations that do not fall within the NATURA 2000 network, as is the case with Pickerimio, I think we should create a special legislative instrument, in addition to existing legislation, which actually creates gaps. I would therefore like to propose, on the basis of your question, that we look at the standardisation of IUGS in relation to the assessment of the concept of geotopes. You have also proposed an overrun if you want to speed up the classification and allocation processes, because the administrative procedures for the recognition of regional parks require a presidential decree, but we also need to find their compatibility with the titration procedures of UNESCO. For this procedure, therefore, we propose that there should be a nomadic working group, in which both the IGM and the Palaeology - Philology of the Ministry of Culture, the Department of Geology and the Environment, the Museum of Natural History of Crete and of course, where we can use the Citizens' Counselor or the Greek Nature Conservation Company. If you too have to propose a number of bodies, we can quickly make a working group in order to have the institutional framework completed, because it is probably also part of the evaluation of the category of mines, which are also geotopes, where we can, particularly in the context of restoration, with geo-reservation, that is to say, within an extended and rational spatial planning plan to complete the network for the protection of geotopes. That is what the institutional framework is all about. You will allow me to speak to the second part of my answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Kafantaris, you have the floor for three minutes for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u8	The proposals are positive, Minister. The question is to move on, because we had a similar answer in 2016, to a similar question in general for the fields that we had. I'd go further than that. Perhaps a special committee will also be held within the Ministry of the Environment, as there is for the NATURA 2000 areas, separately for the protection of the environment. In relation to Pickermi, I'd like to say a few things. The protection of caves and palaeological residues is based on the archaeological Law 3028/2002, in which it is expressed that ancient monuments are considered the caves and palaeological residues associated with the human presence. As regards environmental legislation, those not covered by the archaeological law are protected natural formations. The problem is that, if they do not fall clearly under the archaeological law, there is no consequence for excavators, paleontological ruins or even caves. We see, then, that especially Pickermi has also been exploited in large commercial terms, the various paleontological residues and not only in Pikerm's but at a global level, simply because they are not protected. What I would like to say is that in Pickermi only one move has been made over the years - although as I said before, since 1830, this position has been known - in 1982, when Pikermi was introduced as Zone I of archaeological interest. There is the archaeological law of 2002, but it does not fundamentally protect it, because we are talking about seven million years ago when there was no human presence. The archaeological law and the Archaeological Service essentially protect where human residues exist, tools, etc., which is not the case in Pichermi. However, to the extent that it can, the Archaeological Service has shown and shown an interest in this region. So I want to say a few suggestions. In addition to the establishment of an institutional framework for the protection of geographical heritage, which you have said, and I believe that there is a desire from the Ministry to do, it must be the registration and imprinting of the globes in the geographical information system and there must be a special committee for the protection of the geoenvironment at the Ministry of Agriculture. I would also like to emphasise the developmental nature of the protection and promotion of this area, because we have a recent example in Greece. Where the state and local bodies have really been concerned - and I am referring to the Sigri of Lesvos - we have considerable results. Something like that can also be done with regard to Pickermi for Attica. Yesterday, in the European Parliament which I was meeting on tourism, the President of the European Parliament specifically referred to the theme 'Europe as a tourist destination and development of alternative forms of tourism'. geotourism, then. It is a dimension and tourism and development and it is very important for our country. I would also like to say that this point is close to the airport and close to the port of Rafina. In other words, it can also be used spatially in this direction. I would like to say two things about what is going on today. For years from the University of Athens, from the Paleontology Department, excavations have been carried out on the site of Remaia. The results, as I said before, are impressive. I would like to say that the Municipality of Rafina - Pickermio has shown relevant interest and has given a room, a room where there are some of the findings. But the findings are too much. So the issue at the moment is to become a Paleontological Museum in the space, a large paleontological park and a Paleontological museum that can also evolve into a museum of natural history. I will present a recent interview by Professor Theodoros, Palaionologist, who is responsible for the excavations, in the MARATHON PRESS, where he mentions this position. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Charula (Hara) Kafantaris, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned interview, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I should like to say at the end that there are also funds. There are funds from the NSRF and Interreg programmes concerning rural areas. All this, I believe, needs to be used to highlight Pickerimio. I would say, therefore, because there is the Ministry's political will on this matter, the Ministry of the Environment must take the initiative, together with the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Education, the University, the Ministry of Interior. There is talk of this, too, of local government, and especially of the region, because the old prefecture had given some money and there was an agreement, which did not go any further, etc. Because no government has taken the initiative so far to highlight the specific area, the "Acropolis" of the paleontology, as I said, we must move quickly: First, because we are interested in our cultural heritage, we are interested in the wealth that exists on the earth, because it is not just the archaeological findings, it is also the Paleontological findings that are equally important in this area. First of all, we owe this to science, secondly, in our own country, the emergence of this wealth and, of course, to the future generations, because this has to do with developments in general, with the development of man, with the development of life, it has to do with too much on our planet. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And put on another dimension...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u9	Your Honor, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u10	Because extreme weather phenomena are now not daily, but very often, the use of space is urgent, because they are in real danger. Because, do you understand what I'm saying in relation to...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u11	Madam Colleague, please, you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u12	...climatic change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u14	First of all, following on from my first response, I think, Mrs Kafantaris, that we will agree that this committee, the working group, which we will do for the institutional framework of geotopes, should be the forerunner of a committee corresponding to the 'Natural 2000' network, that is to say, having permanent features, because we need to complete an institutional framework and opinions. So I do not disagree at all with the proposal you have put forward, too. As far as Pickermi is concerned, I fully agree that Pickermi is one of the most important geological monuments in Europe, the 'Parthenon' of paleontology, with excavations since 1935. In at least four places there are findings of the ages of seven to seven million years, and the fact is that there is a preached archaeological site. However, following the application of the existing archaeological law, as you said, in 2002, these findings do not fall under the terms of the archaeological legislation, since they do not concern anthropogenic - let us say so - an older activity. So the residues as monuments of nature now fall under 1650 with Law 3937 as amended, where there is a gap, as we have said, of classification. I have been informed of the three zones in the Municipalities of Pikermio, the declared archaeological site, the institutionalised Zone of Absolute Protection, as well as the Middle Conservation Zone of Local Archaeological Areas and Monuments, which cannot cover what the Paleontological Park needs and the Pikermio area. With regard to the four protection regimes, which we could begin as an intention, in order to qualify as such Pickermi, I would say that the issue of the national park, which is very, if you like, far from the characteristics of the space, as well as the fourth characterisation, is not the same as that of protected natural formation. So, as a start, I propose that we define this country as a regional or a protected landscape. These are the two institutional, if you like, the paths we choose. We agree and have already made a correspondence with the IGM these days after your question. In other words, we agree with the proposal that the area should be included in a regional park, with a presidential decree. That is why we are going to start drawing up a management plan with the IGM, so that we have a plan to declare the Presidential Decree and of course we will have to have another debate here in this House for a management body. We need to complete this process of declaring a presidential decree with a management body and join the Pickermi Park on the world geotopes network. Just say that it is a happy juncture that at this time we also have a proposal from the Institute for Geological Studies, which is essentially about geodiversity and geothermal conservation. It is currently at an approval stage with the use of innovative IUGS tools and related to the tourism product and natural capital. It is therefore an initiative, which we must also see in cooperation with the Ministry of Tourism, for the financial instruments. But with the Ministry of Culture we also need to make an interministerial procedure so that we can move towards more stable steps towards the emergence of Pickerm, but on the basis of our proposal, we can go to a presidential decree of protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the third under No 1521/22-9-2017 topical question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the subject: "Cyllobeing of refugees and migrants on the islands". Mr President, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, my appreciation for the Minister, Mr Muzala, is given, and I certainly also recognise the enormous effort he is making personally. My question, however, is, I believe, of general interest, although the Ministry in a written question - because the answers to the written questions, as you know, make them operational - answers me and recommends that migration policy should not be the subject of micro-political purposes, but that it should be centralised. Of course, this is a hint that we are discussing micro-politically. However, I did not come here to discuss micro-political matters, but to discuss 'big politics'. The question is therefore addressed to the government and, of course, to the Prime Minister. What for? Here, we have a big problem. On the one hand, we know that the President of Turkey, Erdogan, threatens Mrs Merkel to open up the mountains for refugees to come to Europe. Other if he doesn't, but he's threatening. You realize that the only threat is enough. But if he does, you realise that our islands, as they are today, will be overwhelmed by such numbers, which will in fact not belong to their inhabitants. And the inhabitants of the small islands will not be the majority of Greeks. It will be immigrants, that is, the two million who are waiting in Turkey. You'll tell me this is a script. It is not a scenario when a president officially comes on television and says it every day and is directly threatening Germany to take steps regarding its beliefs and what he wants to promote for his country. So the problem is not that simple, and that is why I put it this way. So what I am saying is this: I had supported before you, Mr Muzala, the Ministry, that the hot spots should also be recorded the next day the population that comes into the country and stays there from the first time. Unfortunately, however, this did not happen. And today, where there is no reception area in the inland, there is necessarily enclosed, from what the inhabitants denounce, local government and even other bodies, such as the Church, in hot spots. So that problem which concerns us and I would like you to answer is whether this can be done, that is to say, it is only sites for recording and promoting. If this cannot be done, how do you deal with such a possibility that the Turkish President, Mr Erdogan, tells us every day?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Cremastinos was well known beyond his scientific adequacy and the kindness with which he was dealing with medicine and his colleagues. This could only accompany him to the second part of his life in his political career. Mr. Kremastein, you're making a major mistake. Hot spots were made in his logic that registration is done and then these people take the piece they legally deserve. Efforts are being made for those who are to return to their countries. Those who are to take asylum or are entitled to request transport to the mainland. Fortunately, the Europe-Turkey Agreement has intervened, which I am sure you too support. Her results are visible. In 2015, until about March 20, when the deal began to apply, the flows were ten thousand people a day. Following the closure of the borders between Central Europe and Skopje and Idomeni, they fell to two and a half to three thousand a day. After the deal they fell to seventy with eighty thousand a day. You are right to note that it is currently happening on specific islands, in Samos and in Mytilini, an overpopulation that creates problems, first of all, in the living conditions of migrants and refugees with whom there is a real problem and we are trying to solve it. Of course, this can only have a small impact on people's lives. I don't think we should take our own eyes off. I would like to say to you, Professor, Mr Papoutsis, that what is described by specific circles is not the case. What's coming to prove that? It comes to prove this the huge increase in tourism in these islands. If this increase in crime existed, if there were such an increase in insanity, if immigrants turn upside down or inclined or robbed in the streets, the increase in tourism that took place with the great effort of the government would not exist. I have the evidence. I can testify to you. It is not on the Greek Government's side to make moves which would jeopardise the Europe-Turkey Agreement. It is clear that we are pushing Europe and Turkey with diplomatic moves both to implement what they have to implement. However, we need help and we should say to the other questions too - there should also be pressure on the islands to make some extreme voices, for example refusing to set up pre-regulatory centres. We are making enormous efforts to increase the people of asylum. We have great successes. We're behind needs. It would take a lot of time to analyse them for you. I take your remarks very seriously. Your comments very seriously will be transferred to the government as a whole. You are right, we must take measures to improve conditions on the islands, which are being tested. Let's tell Chios, who's got a fall, we're tearing down Souda. Chios has a 26% drop. We're dissolving Souda. If the SMAs return to Chios tomorrow, we'll have a problem again. Over there we need the participation of local government and the people to build pre-regulatory centres, to make better facilities. We are moving in this direction. We have the support of the European Commission, and I am sure we will have yours too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u20	I'm happy with what I hear from the Minister. But I have to say that three weeks ago, in Samos for an exclusive scientific conference, people who recognized me on the street did not tell me about what I said at the conference, but asked me what was happening with hot spots and so on. Of course, that is a more general problem. What I said in my question - and I would ask you, Minister, to develop this - is why those who come from Turkey to our islands should not come to record on the spot and the next day there should be a ship and then come to the mainland. Why am I saying that? As for the unlikely or likely possibility of this scenario being made to you earlier, that is to say, massively, that the population composition of the islands will be altered. So in the sense of that, my question is whether this practical issue can be considered. Because I will not return to scripts of phobias. But you know that the islands are sensitive regions and when their population composition is altered, everything is being altered. So I stressed and separated your own effort, personal and, if you like, the government's anxiety. But only anxiety is not enough. In my view, this possibility should also be put on the table for international organisations. When a President of a large state, like Turkey, to Germany, officially raises this issue and say whether we should review the hot spots policy. I repeat, that is to say, that there will be a record on the next day, because in the interior the spread of migrants' populations is easier than that. That is the question I raise in essence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u22	I think that the view, which you are expressing in very good faith, is contradicted by the reality of our country. When they were barely registered on hot spots and coming to the mainland, we had a million thousands of arrivals. You remember it was ten thousand a day, seven thousand in Mytilini and Samos two and a half thousand every day. It happened a day when we had seventeen thousand. It was openly Europe's borders through an informal corridor, which had no legal status, but was acceptable. These have been closed now. Therefore, the efforts of the Greek Government and the effort of our own, but I think of any other or any other government who was at the wheel of the country, is to maintain the Europe-Turkey agreement. We are making huge diplomatic efforts towards both Europe and Turkey. There is an observable increase in flows, especially in Samos and Mytilini, which does not constitute a fall in the agreement. On the other hand, Mr Kremastine, let me tell you this: if there is a fall in the Europe-Turkey agreement, if there is a massive flow in 2015, it is clear that they cannot stay on the islands. It is clear that their course will be inland. Unfortunately, there is also a tragedy, which will also occur in the islands, which will receive such flows every day in the inland, where they will accumulate. We must try to bring the Europe-Turkey Agreement into force. We're not gods, we're not bogged. Unfortunately, it is not just up to us, but that is where we need to make our efforts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Minister. Next to the fourth question, no. 1489/13-9-2017, topical question, by MEP I, of the Association of Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "An inadequacy of the environmental problem in the Municipality of Cordelia - Evrosmos". The Minister will answer Mr. Famelos. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I am glad that you are here today and not Mr Stathakis, because it is really a matter that you know very well and have handled. Besides, let's not forget that you're elected to our town. I could not move on to the question, as you know so well, but I have to do it to record it in the Minutes. Mr Minister, as you know, in areas of the Municipality of Evrosmos - Korideliou in the Regional Unit of Thessaloniki, there has been a very long daily dysosmia that comes from a cause that has not been found so far, while the residents claim to have respiratory problems. Despite highlighting the issue in all the middle of the city and in spite of the surveys carried out by the Region of Central Macedonia, people have not received the answer to them, i.e. what is the origin of this smell, while the problem continues, affecting the quality of their lives as well as creating issues of safety and hygiene. Since your Ministry and its services, despite the time given to them - almost two years - have not been able to find out what is the cause of this odor and because it is an extremely environmental issue, as it is evolving, you ask, Minister: On the basis of the recent picture, which you have also created in recent years for the cause of the problem, what action will you take to investigate a serious issue, which is clearly an environmental issue, since the services of your Ministry have so far not been able to identify its origin and what political and service responsibilities should be attributed to those who, until now, have the Ministry of the Environment officially and adequately informed the inhabitants of the Municipality of Evosmos - Cordeliou of this problem? Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr Saridis, for the opportunity to discuss the question. Mr President, I think I have to say to this question that in addition to the formality, we have to clarify what the competence is, what everyone has done and what we have to do in management, operational and political terms. So I have to tell you, Mr Saridis, outside the text and very clearly on the basis of the rules, that the competence to control the environment and inform society is allocated to regional selfgovernment. This, in fact, applies in particular to the financial environment, as only in the region of the capital, with earlier legislation, has the responsibility of the measuring network of the Ministry of the Environment and all the regional stations, even those that belong to the ministries, have been given the regional self-government, on the basis of their responsibilities. This is also evidenced by the documents that have been sent to us by the region, which I can tell you today, but also because we have worked together, because we have taken political initiatives - because they correspond to us - for the place we are interested in, but also for the whole of Greece, where we want to do the same. But I have to take them in turn, because I have to inform myself and in my denture I'm going to say more. I fully agree that there is a serious issue in western Thessaloniki - for twenty years now it has been discussing - of a different size, with heavy use at that time, clearly class or social discrimination, the western Thessaloniki vis-à-vis the east. I must say that in the last two years, a corresponding debate has also been opened for the West Attica. Recently, last week, we took an initiative, too, on austerity in West Attica, where we have additional powers as a Ministry. But this austerity was limited by the transfer of many uses. Remember the old tanning, for example, or the uncontrolled uses that existed in western Thessaloniki. But since the summer of 2016, the problem of dysosmia has, unfortunately, returned to Eusmos, in complete contrast to the name of the region. So to monitor the quality of the environment, I must inform you that the Ministry has installed a national air pollution monitoring network, with fixed automatic stations operating on a 24-hour basis. The responsibility for operating these stations lies with the Region of Central Macedonia. There's a station in the area, that's Cordellio's station. So, incidentally, we have in Cordelio, which is the municipality you are referring to, a station that is being monitored by the region. The whole network was financed by the NSRF and machinery for suspended particles and benzene was recently replaced, so no pollutants have been mitigated so far. You know, particularly benzene and volatile hydrocarbons are the ones that correspond to the amosomia many times and are connected. In November 2015, we even put a benzene and volatile hydrocarbons analyser and in 2016 suspended particles. So the measurements we have had so far do not result - and we know that - in Thessaloniki, we have announced the annual prices for sulphur dioxide, nitrogen dioxide, ozone, carbon monoxide and benzene. There is only surpassing particles, which are not scientifically related to the issue of dysosmia. We have an environmental impact issue, I do not underestimate it, but we cannot respond to the issue of misosmia, because that is what you started. Especially for benzene that would give us a picture of volatile hydrocarbons, the price is lower than that of Patisia, to understand, Mr Saridis, in the Cordelia area. As far as the suspended particles are concerned, I told you that we have been overrun there and it is an environmental impact that needs to be checked. It may be linked to the more general exotic uses and the proximity of the urban complex with an outdoor area, i.e. we also have transported dust, but in any case it is an impact. However, the problem of dyssomy is not attributed to any ordinary urban industrial pollutant, and I must tell you that four industrial plant controls have been carried out - 'ELPEDISON', 'ELPEDISON', 'MAVISO' and the natural gas network - and from that done by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, that is to say, the region with responsibility - I have the data I can give you, which does not result in any excess of operating conditions and environmental parameters. What do we do, though, although typically the numbers are okay? Why does the region really wonder: Why does it smell? How are we gonna live? How are our kids going to school? Long before I took responsibility for environmental issues, Mr Chironis, my colleague, the former environmental officer, went to the area on 1 November and took the initiative of the state, of our government on the area, which I myself have also been to the area and the town hall in a meeting with all the municipalities, with the municipality, with the inhabitants, and went to the areas where these nuisances exist. We have therefore decided to take two major initiatives, although the figures seem to be clear: to finance the installation of Cordellio, this unit, with a station corresponding to a budget of EUR 130,000, and we have done so. I would therefore like to inform you that funding has been approved and that funding has been sent to the region of Central Macedonia with some EUR 131 500 from the Green Fund with additional analyses, as requested by the agency. Whatever the region and the service actors have asked for, we have already approved them since the beginning of 2017. I'll give you dates on the second leg. Also, we asked for a program with "ELELANDS PETRELAYA", with the financing of the analysis machine by "ELLENIKA PETRELAYA", with Mrs Samaras the professor of chemistry responsible for a programme contract for the region, university and "ELLENINIAN PIRELAGELAS" and the machine, which has already been provided by the "ELLENIC PTRAPELAY" and has been to the chemistry department. So, as far as the state could intervene, either through funding, either through the social responsibility of the "ELELANDS" or through political debate and by personal presence, it has done so and I inform you that they have been implemented. I'll continue on the second leg.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u27	Yes, Minister. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u28	From what I understand, Minister, you have, on your side as government, given a sum of EUR 130,000 to create a new station, and you have given it to the region to create it. When did you give that amount? In other words, I want to see from our side where the responsibilities are. Because if that amount was paid a month ago, clearly it is your responsibility. If this amount has been paid a year ago, it is clearly the region's responsibility. In any case, I would also like you to point out to us, as a government on your part, how we should identify where the responsibilities are. If the responsibilities lie in the region, how can a Member of the Minor Representation, who is interested in the good of his country, approach the issue when a whole government on its side cannot find a solution? Let me point out again that, because you know this very well, two years - as long as the Centro Association is in the Greek Parliament, it is watching this issue from these benches - we have not found a solution, we have not told these people, we have not convinced them - although they may be reassuring - that they will not have any problems, since they breathe what they breathe, which cannot live in their homes, they cannot go out on the streets, they cannot go out to their balconies. In the finale, isn't this downgrade of the whole region something bad? All the rest of you listen to Evrosmos, Cordelios, and directly their minds go to this intense dysosmia, which exists. Minister, it's a matter of responsibility. I would really like - if you can - today or at any other time - but above all today - to give me a timetable for when this thing could be solved, when these people will be able to breathe properly. Because, as you know, there has also been a group on social media that says that breathing is a right, and that is the case, Minister. Breathing's right. So give us a timeline and tell us where these responsibilities are being identified, if you had given them at a time when these responsibilities are being shifted somewhere else and what you would like to do in addition at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u30	First of all, I want to make two more general remarks which I think are beneficial. The first issue is the general deterioration of some areas, whether it is called the western Thessaloniki or the western Attica. I think that this is linked to a basic tool that we now have in our hands, which is spatial planning. We should also on the side of the state and pushing local government first and second grades to ask for the immediate completion of these spatial plans. It is in the Council of State that the presidential decrees on land use are adopted, because our country has been too late to have an organised spatial plan, so that we also have investments. Because there was an ignorance and delay in the political administration - a serious political delay - which had a very clear anti-development logic, because he did work for a few people and for a ‘globe’ and there was no plan, so some areas are degraded. I told you in introductory terms that the choice for certain regions has social characteristics too. They were the workers of Thessaloniki, this area. They were downgraded the western people's districts. So the first thing we have to do is spatial planning. The second thing we need to see is this: there is a new subject in science, which has not yet gone through sufficient institutional framework. Few scientists deal with the issues of dysosmia. In particular, there was Professor Samaras, as I told you, at the University of Thessaloniki and a corresponding seat here at the University of Athens. There is still no combined proof in the institutional framework of the country and Europe as a result of austerity. I mean, I'm saying we've done analyses on all the known gaseous pollutants, the ones with legislation and on volatile hydrocarbons. We asked for a new machine to come in and settle now. However, it will remain the question of how the environmental inspector, the environmental verifier, comes from where the pollutant comes from. These are two issues which I have to raise in Parliament, because future legislation may also come, as soon as we have results from these new analyses. We have taken the same initiative in the West Attica. Last week I had a meeting with the Vice-Presidents of Piraeus and West Attica. And it will also be done here in the West Attica research program to investigate the source of dysosmia with special analyses in collaboration with the same body we have at the University of Thessaloniki. But I'm going to tell you the dates because they matter and you asked for them. So the essence is that we have been ten months since the launch of the initiatives, because you said for two years, and I want to be precise, because the real picture will be given. Thus, in fact, the meeting that took place, in order to be able to start the proceedings, was the regional letter of 25 November to the Hellenic Republic to mobilise the machinery procurement procedure. And I told you that on November 1, 2016 - ten months ago today - Mr. Chironis was in the region. So what have we done? The programme contract between the region and the university was signed on 29 May. It's a given, which will probably need you. In June 2017, the machine was received from the “ELELANDS”. It took seven months from the end of November. I think it's not much time to buy a special machine. However, in June 2017 the machine was received. I talked to the teacher. Indeed, he's there. The request for funding to the Green Fund was also made on 28 November and on 31 March the funding was approved and they were granted as approval of the EUR 131 500 credit in the region. The preparation of the equipment specification was completed by the region in July 2017. But the competition isn't yet. I have to say that because we have looked into it at the opportunity of your question. The question is what a Member of Parliament can do, because the Minister will clearly make a letter in response to your question, asking why they are being delayed and why we are not answering society. I think what you are doing first of all is absolutely useful. You could ask me to take the regional documents to make them available to you, but I will give them to you anyway - I say it today - the ones that came on the occasion of the question. It's just that when it's an oral question, we don't have time in a week to collect the material. In any case, however, either with this question or if you want to come back, I will send you all the material in correspondence with the region. We have spoken from the office and with the Vice-President of the Environment and with the environmental services to speed up the procedures. I must say that we also have a matter of bureaucracy. On many occasions bureaucracy, what is being done, financial control is being hampered by environmental issues. I do not know whether we should go beyond them, based on the principles of transparency and good administration, because, Mr Saridis, there are difficulties in operating the services and you understand that. At the moment, however, the supply of the swabs - the machine has gone from ELPEs to the university - we know that - and the implementation of the regional contract with the university and the tender for the machinery that we approved as funding since May 2017. That's the situation. We have to be honest. We have already contacted the region, and I know that I and you as parliamentarians in the region of Thessaloniki are working with the Vice-Presidents and the district manager. We must speed up, because we all owe this answer to local society. Your question has contributed to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u31	Minister, thank you. It follows from Mr Varvitsiotis' timely question to Mr Muzala. Mr Varvitsiotis, I see you have two questions on the same or similar subject. On the basis of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure, we have the opportunity to discuss questions uniformly, if you wish, without obviously affecting your time. So you have two questions. Your total time would be five minutes for the first and five for the second. You'll have ten minutes in total. Do you agree or want to be discussed separately?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u32	Yes, Mr President, I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u33	So we move on to the debate on the second question by No 1526/25-9-2017 of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Mr Miltiades Varvitsiotis, to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the subject: "The situation on the islands of the North-East Aegean" and on the third with number 149618-9-2017, a second-round question by MP, Mr Miltiades Varvitsiotis, to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the subject: "They are caught in our country by thousands of refugees and illegal immigrants". Mr. Varvichiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, first of all I am pleased that Mr Muszalas has come to Parliament. Since June, the Members of the New Democracy have tabled a question on the refugee issue as a whole. From June to September he did not find the time to come and answer her. I heard before putting him in a question from Mr. Cremastino. Same Pantelaki, the same my Patelian, Minister. The same thing you said last year, you say the same thing this year. Here is a very specific situation, and I imagine you have not understood exactly what your role is. Your role is not to comment on the country's foreign policy. She's affecting you. Your role is to prepare the country so that it is ready to deal with any change in the Aegean Sea by exogenous factors, since the collapse of the European Union-Turkey agreement for reasons that do not concern you, neither Greece nor your Government. The tension between Europe and Turkey, the bad relations between Germany and Turkey in recent years which have been getting worse, have led to a significant increase in flows. In fact, according to what is written in the press today, the message Mr Avramopoulos carried to the Prime Minister yesterday was that it was clear that Turkey's view that if the visa is not given, it will not check with the diligence he controlled the flow issues last year. But that's not the point of Mr. Muzala. Mr Mouszalas is responsible for the preparation of the country, islands and structures, for the proper functioning of the asylum and relocation system, for the use of European funds. In fact, you are the only Minister of Government - and thank God - who cannot say that he is financially intimate, as you have 700 million euros that are ponding. You have a ministry that you haven't managed yet to organize. You took this responsibility about a year ago, and the Ministry still has no organograms, nor an economic address. I do not know whether he has general secretaries, because at the rate at which he resigns after each other, it does not indicate that, with regard to all these choices made by Mr Muzalas himself, all these people have a problem with his general secretaries. I guess the opposite happens. You come here and say every day that someone else is to blame. Now you think it is suspicious, according to statements you made at "AGEY", to increase the flows only in Lesvos and Samos and not in Chios. "Substantially" you described it as "substantiated". That's how I read. You said you were also impressed because it's only on these two islands. You ignore the fact that today in Samos we have come to have a population of illegal immigrants and refugees who are almost equal to the number of inhabitants in the background of Samos. All local communities, regardless of what they are voting for - New Democracy, SYRIZA, Democratic Reconciliation, I do not know what else they are voting for - and they are coming at you and saying that they are not going anymore. Apply what you have promised. You have promised decongestion measures on the islands. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, Mr President, how much time do you have, why have you put four minutes while you told me ten minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u35	It's a mistake. You have four minutes for the protology and six for the denology, instead of three minutes and two minutes respectively. You will, of course, have the tolerance of the Bureau. Here, go on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u36	What measures have you taken? Tell us a metre, a announcement you made in winter and completed it within a reasonable period of time. You told us you were going to build centers for broken immigrants. Where are these centers? You told us that you would move forward more quickly with the secondary asylum commissions so that you could dismantle the islands. Where's that? You told us that you were going to move back to Turkey more quickly. Where are these results? What have you done with all this? I think you have had too much time at your disposal and too much money. You've been managing the refugee for over two years. You handle it more than anyone else. Unfortunately, the results of your policy have so far been poor. Minister, I would like to tell you that yesterday the relocation programme was completed with a poor result. Only 28% -29% of the posts allocated to our country have been exploited. Many of these requests were not met with the responsibility of third countries and many of them with the responsibility of the Hellenic Republic with its delays. But the question is what it has done to create an international front so that there is a modern, new relocation programme. Dimitris Avramopoulos calls it, but you were absent from all international developments. There was a meeting on the refugee problem in Paris and Greece was absent. The Italians and French were talking about what will happen in the eastern Aegean. In fact, instead of saying that it is unacceptable not to invite Greece to a European meeting with the African countries on the refugee problem, we went out and said that we were rightly not invited. You don't understand that when they turn our backs, when they decide about us without us, the country is finally not affected by Musala, the country is affected. Minister, I'm going to the islands again to see the situation close. I would challenge you to come along, to see the local communities, to reassure the population. Reassure the mayors who do not belong to the New Democracy, the lawyers who do not belong to the New Democracy, the police and porters who do not belong to the New Democracy and the hierarchs who do not belong to the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u38	In these and many more I expect answers. Of course, we are waiting for a debate to be held at some point, with the time available to us, and the question we have.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u40	I am very sorry that Mr Varvitsiotis, New Democracy's head of immigration, tried to create an image based on lies, ignorance and realities. The first lie I want to make here in the House. I have a deepest sense of responsibility towards the House. I am the Minister who always comes, when I'm in Greece, in the House, whether he likes it, whether he doesn't like it, whether he has something to say, or he doesn't have anything to say. Efforts were made on this question. I was in Europe. Three dates were given the other month, the two missing in Europe and the third in New Democracy could not. Therefore, this thing, allow me, is deeply contradicted by my sense of responsibility towards the House, with the efforts I have made when I was gone, to open the House, and it is a shame to be used here for me. I'm the one who's always here when I'm in Greece. It is clear that our role is to prepare the country for any conditions. We are preparing a country that we have received unpreparedly, with a policy on migration of the type "go in, go out", "we make a broom, collect", "we put in the PREPARA". I've submitted the evidence on several occasions. No immigration policy. The passage to Europe of inconsistencies that Greece is a 'transit country', the consciousness that Greece is 'transit country'. This was the policy that SYRIZA had to work on when the biggest refugee crisis took place from World War II and the biggest refugee and immigration crisis in the last thousand hundred years in Europe from one continent to another. And SYRIZA did it, along with the help of our people. I have already stressed that when anyone, anyone, manages this level of crisis, manages damage. There are no happy people in these crises. What should France say? What should Spain say about the dead? Is it the Minister of Immigration? Is it the Minister of Immigration in France? Is it the Minister of Immigration or the Minister of Public Order? Only here, in the context of SYRIZA falling, that sounds like things and other lies. For economics, I have repeatedly stated to the House that I have nothing to do with the management of finances. Every time this matter comes back to the wrong Minister. And since I have said that on many occasions, I think they are afraid of the answer that the Minister is going to give to finance and that is why they are throwing it all away. We haven't organized the Ministry that we didn't receive. There was no Ministry. There was immigration. We have a million legal immigrants and informal immigrants in Greece before the crisis. Ministry didn't exist. Mr Varvitsiotis told me that when the Ministry of Shipping went to the interior - then it became shipping again - it took two years to reconstruct. The Ministry has an organization, the agencies now pass, it has passed through the Council of State, and it unfortunately needs the slow procedures of the state, which SYRIZA has received in order to be able to organise. But let us come to the point. It is clear that immigration, the living conditions of immigrants, the living conditions of the hosts, namely the Greeks, the effects on immigrants and Greeks, have a direct bearing on the flow. At the moment, the situation in Samos and Mytilini is a bad situation. Four months ago, it wasn't. They came from the European Commission and we have congratulated them. Maybe - and we hope that's where we're trying - after three months it won't be. And it will not be, although not the New Democracy centrally, but the local players of the New Democracy and Mr Varvitsiotis today, and I fear that Mr Athanasios later, but we will see them there, do not even support the positions of their party. I'd expect Mr. Varvitsiotis to say that we need to build pre-retiremental in Samos. Oh, no. We need to make pre-regions in Mytilini. Oh, no. We need to make pre-regions in Chios. Oh, no. Since the September meeting the government had proposed concrete measures. The situation on the two islands today would be better. I said before, in Chios, where we have a fall in flow, we run and we've succeeded. Souda's falling apart. If the flow goes this way, we'll still have a problem. I don't suspect anything about the flow. I know that the flows are not fixed by us. And it's time some people understood this thing, not to play this game. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'll say a word, 'cause the question of border guards keeps coming up all the time. We haven't heard proposals. I have repeatedly told this House that I cannot believe - rumours heard - that there was a Greek government, which did push back to the sea and stuff like that. I'm still saying that. But we have a court ruling on Pharmaconissi. A little vague, a little silence, a little humility towards the facts, against what happened. Let's go to the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u41	Minister, you have six minutes for dentistry. Do we have to sort this out somehow?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, forgive me for inexperience. Maybe I got away.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u43	No, it's not inexperience. You're right. But you'll have a lot of second-guessing time after that. Anyway, go on. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u44	All right, Mr. President, I'll go on later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Varvichiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, I will be staying in the last comment on the Pharmaceuticals of the Minister. The day before yesterday, in Kastelorizo, a small child was found dead at sea and is another victim on a very large list of victims, which we have grieved in the Aegean Sea, multiples over the last two years compared to the past. It's multiple! A hundred dead people in the Aegean Sea. Really wet grave the Aegean for both young children and adults. The Minister wants to use rumours and bring them to Parliament, as if no one accused him of being a moral automobile, as I had accused myself of being a moral carpenter for a failed rescue operation. And then, together, SYRIZA accused me of being a murderer. In my office, the Syrians invaded me and wrote to the walls "Barbecue killer". Did you hear that from me? Did I blame him as a moral automation for the death of the little boy? And he brings a court ruling from the court of appeal, which he said about Pharmaconesi? That, of course, the Syrian interrogator is guilty, but he gave him relief that he didn't get any money for the traffic. I mean, that he was handling the traffic, that he put people on an inappropriate boat, that they drowned children, that he closed children in the hold without escape, and when he snuffed them, they drowned. Convicted of all this. From the court of appeal, however, what the court found as refreshing and reduced his sentence, was that he didn't get any money for trafficking. That's the reality. Stop this little game because I will not come to the House every day to do what you have done, not you personally, but all your comrades. I shall, however, bring to Parliament what your colleagues voted on the Council of Europe the other day, when I was defending the country. I'll read it to you, trying to do a direct translation from the English text. As rapporteur for the Council of Europe for the human rights of migrants in the Mediterranean, I tabled a proposal in which I welcomed the positive steps taken by the Greek Government. And the SYRIZA colleagues, your predecessor, Mrs Christodoulopoulos, and others have voted that there are unacceptable procedures for examining age, that there is no proper education and hygiene, that there is sexual exploitation of people within the different camps and that their government has shown inability to make effective use of all international funding, what the Minister says today is not responsible. Then what did you do with the Ministry? Why have you made a ministry if you do not have the opportunity to make use of the funds? Someone else's caring for politics, someone else paying for it? What did you do with it? I told you, your mistake. Your mistake to make a ministry when it takes so long to stand up and organise itself in a time of crisis. Do you have the money and you can't use it? And here you are not alone. You represent a government. If you want to put the ball on your colleague who sit next door, say his name and denounce him that he is unable to use the money. The result remains one: You don't use the money, whether it's Musalas or it's anyone else's fault. And I would really like you to tell us who is responsible for making use of this money. Here you have made the army a non-governmental organization - the only one doing any work from the Greek state - and you are abstaining. You told us here, Minister, that Greece was transit. Of course it became transit, with SYRIZA policy. And it is the policy that has led to the closed borders in Europe. It is the policy of open borders that lifted the fences in Europe and you tell us that you are ashamed of this policy? This policy has been served. That's the policy you planned. And the policy when the rest of Europe closed their borders, you started to say 'What to do'. And today you find out what we told you two years ago, that it does not look for a price for the country and that it will find itself worse in the policy of transit, with "they disappear, I don't know where they're going next." That was SYRIZA policy. Preparatory centers. Why haven't you fixed them? You've been saying that since last year, since last autumn, you're going to fix it. You're a government officer. If you're expecting the Opposition, we'll take care of the job. You say you can't do it, we'll come and do it. That is what we say to you, that you are not capable of even the things you are announcing and to which the New Democracy believes, that there must be pre-regulatory centres, that there should be closed centres for illegal immigrants, that there should be an acceleration of asylum procedures, that you should do so. That's what we think. Why don't you do it? And, of course, we believe in the distinction between refugees and immigrants, which you are not talking about. Listen, Minister, after two years in the ministerial chair, it's nobody else's fault but you. It's too much time, it's too much funding, it's too much international visibility to throw the responsibilities of your inability somewhere else. No longer are the numbers explosive, but the fact that explosive situations are created, without the numbers being explosiveally, is an element that confirms your responsibility, your political non-existence and, of course, the lack of a serious plan - not only by Giannis Mousalas personally, because you know that I also like you - from the inability of this government to decide, plan and complete a policy. Sadly, both in the refugee and in immigration, you are on two boats. On the one hand, you are trying to satisfy the safety of islanders, and on the other hand, you want to satisfy all the extreme voices in your party, which believe in the policy that you yourself have just denounced, namely that Greece must be a transit country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, I am not going to continue this controversy. People know. It doesn't make much sense. I repeat that it is a different thing - it is no less sad, but it is different - a child who drowned in coming, such as what happened to us many months after the Europe-Turkey agreement, by people who drown in the presence of the port.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u49	Presence of FRONTEX.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u50	Forgive me, Mr. Varvitsiotis, I am not a person of personal controversy. As I have told you, I refuse to believe that any Greek government has deliberately done so. However, something has happened and this must create at least a ignominious silence. But let's get more practical. What did we do? What did this incompetent government do? This incompetent government received a Asylum Service set up in 2012 with a delay of forty years compared with the rest of Europe. He received it to the three hundred eighteen people, in September when I came in, that is, he had three hundred eighteen people, and today we have a thousand and a hundred people. It's an increase that's incredible. Is it working? Is he responding? Oh, no. Because we are the first country in Europe to apply for asylum. Because an Asylum Service is an extremely delicate legal service and we, with fanaticism, are determined to say that the Asylum Services must operate by awarding the law established by the Geneva Convention, European law and international law. We are very proud of that. We also believe that a government should not interfere in legal proceedings like this and we are very proud that we are doing so. Where we can intervene, in claiming help - because it was rightly said that it was your job to demand - we claim lawyers, we claim an increase in the Asylum Service, we have done so in a way and a success, which no other country in Europe has done. It's not true the Asylum Service isn't working. The Asylum Service is working. The number is such that it is very difficult to respond to reality. That is why, because in Greece, thank God, we have implemented the entire international law and we have committees of refugees and we have courts too, they are being delayed. This delay can only be lifted if you say that I as a country do not respect International Law, which automatically takes you out of Europe. Let them think about it, those who propose such measures or those whose thought leads to such a thing. As far as the centres for offenders are concerned, we have repeatedly said that your local forces are responding. Your local forces are constantly creating issues. I have letters here, Facebook. For Christ's sake! It's not worth the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u51	Are you looking at Facebook again?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u52	Please, Mr. Varvichiotis. I only look at Facebook when I see you. I don't look in general. It is not when the People's Party meets to support what you are fighting on the islands. You can't want to step on a boat here and then on another boat there. Here, then, there is a responsibility. Is there a government responsibility? The government is trying. The government will do it. Whatever we do, with a new increase in flow again, the center will have a problem over a period of time. Then it'll get back to work again. We're in the face of this situation. Unless you suggest - to prepare and do not happen again in 2015 - to build a million hospitality places. Here I would like to tell you that SYRIZA has received a country without accommodation. There was no welfare. Come on, get in, get out! What you are accusing a SYRIZA Minister of State is the policy you have implemented in the country. That was your policy: brooms, pass. I imagine, when you talk about border guarding, you don't mean sea retreat, you don't mean retreat to Evros. I also imagine that you will agree with the view expressed by the People's Party, and your representatives whenever they are in the People's Party, that we must support the Europe-Turkey agreement and that this agreement has been beneficial for all of Greece and has been beneficial for Europe. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I also hope that within the political diplomacy you want to follow you have completely taken out of your mind that the problem is not Greek-Turkish. Our country in diplomacy is facing the problem as a problem for Europe - Turkey, and is opposed to forces in Europe that want to limit it to Greek-Turkish. We could talk for hours. I imagine that in the other form of control we will have too much time, we will be able to talk about it. Let me just tell you that the government is making a huge effort to ensure that those who are entitled to asylum or who are vulnerable to inland transport. We've moved within two and a half months five thousand seven hundred from the islands to the mainland. The government is making a huge effort to create conditions, which you will see in the future. I hope that you will agree with the government and that we will go together on the island when the pre-retirement centre is built, Mr Varvitsiotis, and you will talk about the need for this. I would like to say to our compatriots, to the Greeks, that there is a observable increase in flows and not a significant increase in flows, not such an increase in flows that the Europe-Turkey agreement falls. There is an observable increase in flows, which is concentrated on two islands, Samos and Mytilini. The government will try again, as it had done before. There was the same phenomenon eight months ago. Four months ago, Moria and Samos were okay. Then it's broken again. The government will reopen its interventions. The situation will improve. We will manage, despite the xenophobic voices, too much of the voices that this is about altering our nation, despite these medieval things, which not only have a left-wing view, but have nothing to do with the bourgeois of enlightenment. It is about something else that is developing in Europe. In our country it was unable to develop, thanks to the synergy of our people together with the government - without them we would not have done it. That's how we'll keep going. We'll make it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Minister. Below is the first question under number 1527/25-9-2017 of the new Republic MP, Charalambou Athanasiou, to the Minister for Migration Policy, on dealing with the problems of the refugee-migration issue in the island of Lesvos and on measures to decongestion of the island. Here, Mr Athanasios, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. It may take a little longer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u55	You have him, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u56	Before entering the question, I would like to make a few general remarks. Minister, you said that the country was found unprepared and that the New Democracy had no programme to deal with this sudden refugee - immigration crisis. Indeed, one cannot claim that there was a programme to tackle the refugee crisis when it broke out from 2013 onwards. I'll explain what I mean. It is not accurate, however, what you said there was no programme. I would remind you that the Syrian crisis, the civil war, has begun since the end of 2012 and the major massacres and human sacrifices took place in spring and summer of 2014. New Democracy was then in the government, but it managed to prevent the entry of migrant-refugees into our country. Why did he do that? Because he had passed the message to the traffickers and potential economic immigrants or refugees who wanted to come to Greece and did not give their money to the traffickers to come to Greece. This whole situation deteriorates in 2015 with the doctrine of open borders. Therefore, do not say that it was a question of the New Democracy, because in 2015 they only passed from Lesvos over five hundred thousand refugees, who of course fled to other parts of Greece and to Europe. So what you said is not accurate. A program? Of course there was a program from the start. What were the basic principles of the New Democracy programme? To monitor our borders - it was not a clear vineyard in the country - to speed up the identification procedures for those who came, to see whether they are economic immigrants or refugees and to dismantle the islands, of course in parallel with the best conditions that had to prevail in hot spots, at the reception sites. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] These principles also went to the great meeting we held in Maximos - when the Prime Minister did not come, but you were present - where all the actors were and chaired by the Minister of State, Mr Flamouraris. None of this, though. We are now coming to the second point you have said. Mr President, it is something we have said on several occasions, because we Members must look at the texts and not say that there is a text and that is what it says. There is no European Union-Turkey Agreement in the sense of the agreement. There is a declaration of goodwill about how to deal with a number of issues. Indeed, in this statement, which was made in March 2016, it says that identification should be made at the place of first reception on the islands. In April 2017, the rule of your Government's law is followed, which says that in cases where vulnerable groups exist or there is an emergency - I say it just to understand the world - it cannot be identified in the islands, because infrastructure is not enough. There is no way the world is coming, these unfortunate people, in Continental Greece. The question is why it has not been done and, in any case, why is there not a population analogy so that there is a distribution of these people, refugees and immigrants, and some migrants returning, since they do not qualify for refugee status? Because one who comes from a war country does not automatically mean that he is a refugee. He must enter the asylum procedure, be granted asylum, and then he becomes a refugee. So I say, in such a case, why should there not be a distribution throughout the country? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll take some time from dentistry, Mr. President. Listen, Minister, the situation on the islands is tragic. There's been such an increase. I can only tell you that, from mid-August to 20 September, some two thousand ninety-five people came to Lesvos and it is not accurate, as regards the registration made by the seventh progress report of the European Union-Turkey Declaration on 6 September 2017, on the fact that it is about six thousand in Lesvos and thirteen thousand in the islands, I do not want to question it, because I do not think there is a fraudulent, i.e. the evidence is falsified. But it's not accurate. Only in Lesvos right now is over ten thousand. Five thousand are only in Moria and about eight hundred are in Kara Tepe. In the various other structures of the High Authority and the NGOs are about nine hundred and fifty people. On the islands, of course, there are many more. Questions are and I'll come back to dentistry...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u57	What you said, sum up, see that it's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u58	Yeah, we got it. I'll tell you later. I'm talking about the official stuff. Unofficially in the structures that exist, houses have been rented in the inland of Lesvos, people with disabilities and vulnerable people currently counted on the flows that exist, ladies and gentlemen, that they are about eighty to one hundred each day. The day before yesterday, a hundred and ninety-five people came. That's not enough. The second big problem is identification. I mean, the Minister made an effort. We're not negative to everything. As far as the structures of the primary asylum committees are concerned, they are, of course, one-sided - and there they go, and in about forty-two days there is an identification.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Comrade, can we leave them for your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u60	Where the delay is, Mr President, it is secondary. That's the problem. Because I wanted to say a few things in my protolog, I'm going to go on in denology, to say a few other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u62	Many things have been repeated, they have been answered. Time's squeezing. There was never a doctrine of open borders. We found a doctrine of open borders. They'd come in, they'd come in. I don't understand when you say you had a border surveillance programme. You didn't even have a record of the people who came in. You then recorded them, after you arrested them, with these famous brooms and politics - if possible! - to regain public space after you had no surveillance. However, I think our people have understood that very well. You had no places of hospitality, and as far as the positions you had in the pre-repeals were concerned, I have told the House that it was five thousand and that you were 40% of them, for reasons of objective difficulties, I do not claim - unfortunately - in intentionality. The intention was for everyone to function. As for the other gangs with the Kalashnikovs, Viktoria Square, Afghanistan in Igoumenitsa, Patras, I would like to tell you not to say these things. They're listening! They know, they have experiences. There's no need. You know, Mr Athanasios, you also probably insist that some of your party - some, not your party - are the only ones in Europe who insist that there is no agreement or statement of Europe - Turkey. There is. The proof that they exist is that from seven to ten thousand a day in Mytilini...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u63	Minister, it's a statement. The deal is binding, but the statement...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u64	A statement, but it applies. Listen to me, it is a statement, but your party is also applying in Europe, the People's Party in Europe has made very great efforts to continue to apply.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u65	I'm going to the statement, with the exceptions I said...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u66	There are no exceptions that you have said. There is no one in Europe who interprets this statement like this. None of your people, not mine.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u67	Okay, I'm interpreting it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u68	Yes, all right, but getting a state the responsibility of interpreting, a distinguished legal person, but contrary to the interpretation that all Europe gives and, above all, helping the country is unfair. For the asylum, I told you we were making a huge effort. For the secondary committees - you know that very well, because you are legal - we made seven and in three months we doubled them. Please listen to me, let us speak the language of reason. We're moving on to new inside. There was a decision by the Council of State on hold, which fortunately came out. So, what do we do now, tell the judges to do the above, do the following? The Judges shall be independent. There is therefore no such matter. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The pace is slow too, as I said. To record migrants and refugees we have a best practice in Europe. We have congratulated the European Union. There's no one unregistered. I'm giving you the evidence. In Lesvos, it's a bad situation. I won't argue with that. It's not ten thousand. It's about six thousand four hundred. Listen to me! It doesn't even matter here, we'll add and remove. Let's move on. We have five hundred licenses in Kara Tepe. I have not heard you say why the government of immigrants does not transfer to Kara Tepe, which is also a state camp. It's made with state money.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u69	There are seven hundred forty-two people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u70	Yeah, but he's got another five hundred licenses. Are we going together to get the immigrants to take them to Kara Tepe?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u71	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u72	Take it easy, I'll call you and I'll go together. There are five hundred places in houses inside Kara Tepee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u73	I have no objection to you improving the conditions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u74	Listen to me. I accept your willingness to help the island. So I'm telling you that there are five hundred license posts in Kara Tepez. Let's get them in there?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u75	Let's go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u76	Let's go, but you're government!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u77	In front of you and I to see who will stop us. Let's see who's gonna stop us, because we're gonna be prevented by people who are yours.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u78	I'll tell you about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u79	Yeah, you tell me later. In your question, you did not say when this incompetent government would implement its announcement and build a pre-regulatory centre in Lesvos. I didn't hear you say that. So say that you don't want to see why the other island has to want and you don't want to. Your position is to be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u80	Minister, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u81	I'm done. It makes no sense, Mr President, we repeat ourselves all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u84	Here you go, Mr. Athanasios, but we don't have a tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u85	Wait a minute, Mr. President. The question of the Euro-agreement has been analysed. I have analysed how this is legal. Besides, let us not forget that, following this European Union-Turkey declaration, a subsequent Greek Government law that solves the issue, as they have said, was followed by an opportunity to say it publicly and through the media to the Minister. Minister, Lesvos has suffered a great deal of damage. It doesn't fit any more structures there. It must also be done in other parts of Greece. The situation on the islands is tragically described. Tourism has been dissolved. The economy of this place has collapsed. This year Greece had an increase in tourism and Lesvos did not collect any of them. To be understood, I will only tell you how many cruise ships were coming and how many of them came this year. In 2000 and 2015, fifty and three cruise ships came every year. Twenty-nine came in 2016 and in 2017, until today, only two came. Charter flights have decreased 46% in the first year. We had a small increase this year, but it did not cover the proportionality, which existed throughout the country, with all the damage that the island has suffered. Now I would say whether there could be a mixed staff - I have said it another time - which can control this situation, that the Army, the general from the Brigade, the Navy, FRONTEX, the port, the NATO force, should be involved, to see what can be done to guard the borders. Because as much as Turkey does not enter an open visa - you see now what is happening and what is being done and what the German Government may not be, the Socialist Party, and we will have a problem with the Liberals who are opposed to it - I fear that the situation in Lesvos will get worse. The economy sucks, people made investments to build their hotels and their units and suffers today, cannot meet their requirements and serve their loans. Crime has increased. You see them, keep an eye on them. Health has problems. Because of the diseases the hospital is full of every one of them by immigrants and others. The efforts - to say this too - which the Ministry of Health has now done to serve our hospital with doctors and nurses are not enough. There is a huge concern in the world, seeing the place being destroyed financially, but also for security reasons. The world feels insecure. We have a rich population there, with young farmers, with young children, that is about fifteen thousand, who see tomorrow being insane and do not know what will happen. I ask, then, for the last time: why is there no equal distribution of all refugees in all parts of Greece depending on the population of each country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Athanasios. The Minister for Migration Policy, Mr Ioannis Mousalas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u87	Now I don't want to say the same again. Look, you are making a mistake in trying to defend something that, in my view, does not need defence. As far as the difficulty of the situation is concerned, we know it and we want to heal it. But I think you're saying things that don't apply. Look, Mr. Athanasios, these are international elements. Lesvos had a 40.9% increase in air arrivals tourism, 36% increase in sea arrivals. This cannot be done with twenty thousand scorpions - ten thousand each, eleven others - in the islands. So SYRIZA picked up Mytilini and evacuated her. Mytilini will still make. Three months ago, there wasn't that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, you can't compare it to last year...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u89	I'm sorry, Mr. Athanasios, are we going to be expelled?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u90	I told you data from 2012, 2013, 2014. It's not what you call it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u91	We're going to launch. Mr. President, will I have an evacuation later?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u92	Minister, the debate we are having is of great interest. We all know that thousands of our compatriots on the islands are probably following this debate, which is why the Bureau has a great deal of tolerance. However, do not completely circumvent the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u93	Forgive me. First, I asked why...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u94	I apologize for interrupting, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much, Minister. I know that the debate is interesting, I understand Mr Athanasios too, but to try and comply with the Rules of Procedure a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u96	I think you're making a tough speech just after it had to be done. I'll take it. I'll finish this. Borders are kept. This thing has got to stop. He's turning against the country. Borders are kept. FRONTEX says so, NATO says so, the Greek army says so, the Greek state says so. What you're doing creates a problem. To hit SYRIZA, you're talking about unguarded borders. Borders are kept with the reverence that the Constitution and International Law permits and imposes. And that's what we're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Minister. The second question under number 1515/20-9-2017 of the Second Senate Vice-President and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: "Without ELTA Patmos due to the weakening of the sole official", will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister responsible, Mr. Nikolaos Papapas, who accompanies the Prime Minister in Tallinn, Estonia. The fourth under number 1516/20-9-2017 topical question for the first cycle of the Piraeus Parliamentary 2nd cycle of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Great and uncontrolled destruction in the Argosaronian from the shipwreck of the tanker "AYI ZONI II" in the Salamis area, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis, due to unreserved commitments. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u98	We are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY The Question No 33/23/27-6-2017 of the New Democracy Members will be discussed. Konstantinos Skreka, Konstantinos Katsafandou, Sophia Vultesis, Nikolaos Panayotopoulos, Konstantinos (Kosti) Hatzidakis, Konstantinos Kontyrgos, Vasilios Economou, Athanasiou Boura, Ioannis Antoniadis, Christos Boukorou, Spyridos - Adonidos Georgiadis, Andreas Katsanotis, Ioannis Vroutsis, Ioannis Foriou, Ioannis Keroyani, Emmanou (Man) Konstantinos (Simou), Kedicopoulou, Annadoulou, Theodorou, Nikos Kergiou Keromeos, Georgiou Antariki, Georgiou Antariki, Ioannis Kyrizanou, Ioannis Evannis Kyriou, Ioannis Korinisaniou, Ioannis Koriou, Ioannis Evannis Koriou, Ioannisianisaniou, Ioannisaniou, Ioannis Kossaniou, Ioannis Kosssssssssaniou, Ioannisiaou, Ioannis Koloou, Ioannis Kolouou, Ioannisaninisaninis Koloou, Ioannis Koloou, Koloou, Ioannisou, Ioannisianisianisou, Ioannis Kosssaninisianis, Kosaniou, Ioannis, Koloou, Ioannis Koloou, Koloou, Ioannisianis, Koloou, Ioannis. The honourable Members who will take the floor are: Mr Constantine Skrekas as the first questioner, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, Mr Simeon Kedicoglou, Mr Constantine Vlassis, Mr Christos Bukokouros and Mr Iason Fotililas. Parliamentary Representatives for the debate of today's topical question are appointed by New Democracy by Mr. George Georgios Georgios, by SYRIZA Mr.Ioannis Sifakis, by the Democratic Consortium Mr. Andreas Loverdes, by the People's Association - Golden Dawn, by Ilias Panayotaros, by the KKE, by Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, by the Independent Greeks Mr. George Lazarides, by the Association of Kentronis Saridis and by Potamis Mr. On behalf of the Government, the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr George Stathakis, is present to intervene. The first honourable Member to speak, Mr Constantine Skrekas, has the floor for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today in Parliament a matter of particular importance, on the occasion of the topical and urgent debate that we tabled thirty-nine Members of the New Democracy last June, four months ago, on the progress of PPC. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to make it clear first of all that the issue of PPC is not a matter for micro-party controversy. PPC is the main pillar of electricity production, since it produces more than 60% of demand. PPC is also the main supplier, since it holds a market share and offers energy to 85% of our country's demand and thus supports professionals, supports the country's production base, supports farmers, supports farmers and, above all, supports households. PPC, however, is also one of the largest employers in the country, since in the PPC group they work for about eighteen thousand workers today and thus support their families. PPC, moreover, is almost the only or main source of wealth for large regions of the country, such as western Macedonia and others. PPC has been using Greece's basic and almost unique fossil fuel, lignite, for decades. We understand, ladies and gentlemen, that PPC today is the company that ensures energy security, adequacy and supply of our country. It is the main pillar of the Greek economy and any possible unpleasant development could blow the foundations of our society and thus of our society. This, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is something that the New Democracy will not allow it to happen. That is why we are here today and have called on the relevant Minister, by the timely question, to attend to show a dramatic reality and to ask the government to assume its responsibilities before it is too late. I can explain immediately, ladies and gentlemen, because time is short, but this is a very serious matter. A few days ago PPC officially announced the financial results of the first half of 2017, which unfortunately confirm the grim situation in which the company was found. I shall mention certain figures which are necessary, in order to understand, ladies and gentlemen, the scale of the challenges facing PPC over the last two and a half years. First of all, we note that operational losses in the first half of 2017 amounted to EUR 140 million. In other words, the financial results, without calculating the revenue from the sale of IPTO, which are exceptional and non-recurring, are loss-making - operating profits were losses - of EUR 140 million. Let me note that in the first half of 2014 PPC had operational profits - not losses - EUR 142 million and EUR 140 million operational losses in the first half of 2017. Even worse, however, it is the fact that the profit margin, before tax, interest and amortisation, in the first half of 2017, was dramatically reduced to EUR 202 million, compared to EUR 432 million in the first half of 2014 and to EUR 547 million, more than half a billion EBITDA margin in the first half of 2014. It is even more tragic if one considers - and I submit the PPC press release which mentions the results - that the company's EBITDA margin, i.e. the pre-tax profit margin, interest and amortisation forecasts in 2017, decreased by 63%, i.e. by 459 million euros, compared to last year's first semester. PPC has lost room for EBITDA almost half a billion euro projections for uncertainties compared to last year. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Skrekas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned press release, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This means that if this continues in 2017, throughout the year, the reduction in the profit margin of forecasts on an annual basis may amount to EUR 800 million. I am presenting, ladies and gentlemen, an excerpt from the minutes of the Committee on Production and Trade on 8-3-2017, namely at the beginning of last March, which, in particular, in my position, I mentioned exactly - and I am sorry to say - that there is a risk that this year PPC could record a dramatic reduction in margins, which, as I personally calculated, will reach 800 million euros. I hope I won't be able to verify, even now. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Skrekas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned version of the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Furthermore, PPC's due requirements, that is, what customers owe to PPC, in the first half of 2014 were EUR 1.2 billion, Minister. Today PPC's due requirements, that is, what customers owe PPC, if we include the requirements that have been regulated, reach EUR 3 billion, that is, one and a half times over. The tragic situation, however, in which PPC has come, I think, more than anything else, describes it more clearly the course of the price of the company's share in the Greek Stock Exchange. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. In the first half of 2014 PPC’s stock exchange value amounted to EUR 2,5 billion. Today, and after the sale of an asset, IPTO, PPC's stock market value is only EUR 435 million. PPC and after a sale of an asset, for which it received EUR 622 million, has a stock exchange value of 2.1 billion less than three years ago. The government will come, of course, trying to mislead and cheat, I would say public opinion, to say that we need to add the value of IPTO to PPC's value in order to have a fairer valuation. I accept that we will add it. It is EUR 900 million the value of PPC and IPTO today on the Stock Exchange and EUR 2.5 billion was PPC's only value three years ago. And here you will answer something, Minister, about the results of the IPTO conversion that you are proud of as a government that was in the public interest and in the interests of PPC, IPTO and employees: How is PPC possible before the IPTO was relocated, before it sold IPTO had a stock exchange value of EUR 1 billion and after it sold IPTO, received EUR 622 million and has a net stock exchange value of EUR 622 million in its funds, and has a stock exchange value of EUR 436 million? In other words, a company that has 622 million funds on the stock market is estimated at 436 million, or even as much as the money it has on its fund! This proves the disastrous choice you made to relocate IPTO, which has created tragic problems and put a bomb on the ground of PPC for the years to come. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes of my dentistry, Mr. President. Three years you have been ruling - essentially two and a half years, you are approaching three - and while you have canceled the strategic plan that the previous government had designed and legislated for two and a half years, you have not testified and have not announced what your plan is for PPC. If you have a plan, Mr Minister, first please submit it today, so that the Greek Members and the Greek public can be informed. But you cannot do it because you cannot testify to something you do not have. And how does it turn out you don't have a strategic plan? It is demonstrated by your letter in April that you called on PPC's administration to proceed with the preparation of an operational plan "to ensure the viability and the promotion of the company's interests", as is said by the letter. In other words, you will admit by this letter, Minister, if there is one, that I call on you to disprove or confirm - that the two and a half years of the SYRIZA Government - if PPC proceeds without a strategic plan and has reached this dramatic situation, which is partly a state of partial posture. You have agreed with the institutions, for example, the sale of 40% of lignite production. You were supposed to be in September, that is until tomorrow or tomorrow - because September is over - you should have completed the market test, according to which you committed yourself. It's over September and not only have you completed the market test, but you still haven't cleared which units you will sell. And we ask you today: What units will you sell, Minister? Have you decided what to do with the workers in these units? Have you told them what you're going to do? Information says you're about to sell a separate clientele, separate lignite units, whether independent of one, one, or together. Nobody knows, and neither do you, of course. And I ask: is this project in the public interest, in the interests of business, workers and Greek society? Have you appreciated it? Another buys the clientele, does anyone else buy the units? Will it still be an IPTO and TRINOSE type project that you sold for EUR 45 million, when the annual grants for the barren lines are EUR 50 million? Is that where PPC ends? We warn you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA – ANEL, Minister, that the New Democracy will not allow you to complete the destruction of PPC nor pass the problem on to the next, creating a nuclear bomb that, if it shuts down, will lure the entire Greek economy and society. We call on you today before the National Representation to assume your responsibilities. We do not have the right to allow your sluggishness, procrastination and criminal choices, to the satisfaction of your party audience, to dynamize the future of the country's main energy pillar, which is PPC. You are obliged today to answer what will happen when PPC, as you have agreed with the institutions, loses 40% of its market share, what you will do with NOME, what you will do with ELAP, what you will do with the due amount, what you will do with the future of PPC. We call on you, Minister, even now, to take your responsibilities seriously, so that we do not grieve or, unfortunately, do not have a disaster that nobody wants or imagines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Screka. The second honourable Member, Mr Kostis Hatzidakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u101	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of PPC is not on the front page of the newspapers, but - believe me - we can have very bad developments with PPC. We, too, wish that the government is right and that we wish first to disprove and be right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u102	You're touching us!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u103	But the government, Mr Theonas, - and I believe you will listen to me in good faith, I shall refer to evidence - undermines PPC with its policy and destabilizes the energy system. Will you say to me: "were things in PPC pink with you?" No, and for this reason, among other things, the choice of "little" PPC had been decided by the Samara government, so that with this money - which would not receive the public or the superstition, because there had been an agreement with the troika there was an exception and the money from the sale to the PPC funds - to take a breath and to make the necessary investments and modernise it, in order to stand in the new landscape. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr DIMITRIOS KAMMEINOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] From there we left and made an incredibly wrong choice in the summer of 2015 with the blessings of the troika, unfortunately, - in absolute confusion and the government and the Troika -, on the basis of which we passed from "little" PPC to "half" PPC or, if you like, to a free privatisation of PPC. What do I mean? Read the memorandum, read the relevant law accompanying it. What was then voted, in agreement with the Troika, is that within four years PPC will descend from 90% of the market and customers to 50%, in zero economic exchange. I would ask the Minister, colleagues, if they see anything different to read and tell us how PPC can come down from 90% to 50% without collecting money and at the same time proceeding as a company. The plan of PPC's managers at this time, those working every day at the offices, is to lose customers! This has been agreed without any consideration. For me, it's a global originality. I really wonder who agreed to it and why - I am not saying quitting, nobody resigns anyway - it is not ashamed of this. Why doesn't anyone get ashamed and apologize? Finally, there are some limits to which signatures one can put. And from there on, under this agreement, we are now selling the lignite plants of PPC. The government had fought, "It is not going to sell anything, alas, here is a left government proud, heroic, leventiki!". Well, you agreed to sell 40% of the installed power, but here we are in a landscape in the mist. Mr. Skourletis didn't want it, Mr. Stathakis is less heroic, he wants it, but no one has explained how to proceed. It has been agreed in November to have specific developments, we have arrived at the end of September and no one knows. There are rumours on the market that this will charter, create even greater tension and confusion, possibly pressure on PPC. The Minister can tell us 'don't worry'. I am not a follower of the 'don't worry' school. This will be November, Minister, to see who's right from both of us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall also take my dentistry. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, this is becoming even more difficult with Community legislation, which has passed relatively recently, and with the industrial emissions directive, which requires the upgrading of PPC's existing lignite plants, which cannot be done free of charge. They need money. PPC doesn't have the money. Mr. Skrekas has already broken down the tragic economic situation of PPC. So, how's she gonna upgrade her units? With the air stirred? If there is a method through the air of the digest to upgrade PPC's lignite plants, tell us about it, to keep the patent internationally. We'll have trouble closing units completely with a seal. Where are you going? Where are we going? I was a Minister in this ministry in 2009, I spent nine months there, and I kind of know the place. I'd have a conscious problem hiding these things. We can't go happy on the cliff, because that's how you're going. You may not be government in a few months, but that's not how it works. Greek citizens and, above all, PPC workers must know the truth. That's the situation. As a result of these manipulations and other captive manipulations with IPTO, from which you took much less money than you could get with a normal privatisation, we finally reached the full depreciation of PPC, which is with the soul in the mouth and that goes month to month on the issues of liquidity. Will it go further, won't it? He'll pay wages, won't he? Of course, you continue to apply the model for which you are proud, to leave PPC's customers at all, because this is its obligation, to lose a market share and not get a single "pound" for this policy. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I think we need some explanations not only of PPC officials and officials, not just of opposition. First of all, you need to explain to your own conscience, because you cannot thereby destroy the country's biggest practical business, undermine its future, destabilise the energy system and at the same time move the finger. As is very much the case for us, we are not prepared to cover up these incredible mistakes, for which you will apologise to the Greek citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u104	Thank you very much, Mr Hatzidakis. I would ask the honourable Member, Mr Kedicoglou, to take the floor for five minutes. Mr. Kedicoglou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the case of PPC is the most characteristic of the deadlock in which this incredible combination of idealism, incompetence, ignorance and inability to understand the most basic rules of economic development, which characterises the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Questions about how you led developments to PPC are many, but the main one is one, simple and honest: How, in the wish, did you manage to create a model of privatisation, in which the public sector grants almost half of its revenue, while remaining charged with all costs? We know you have a problem with privatization, but that's where you broke all the records! What unexplained brain has arrested this outrageous plan? How did you manage a monopoly of energy to have tens of millions of new damages every month? By the end of the year, there will be 800 million! How did you achieve PPC's complete depreciation on the stock market? In a short time, PPC's share will not deserve the value of the paper in which it is printed. Why did you prefer to lose more than EUR 2 billion from the sale of "little" PPC and 66% of IPTO which the Samara government had launched to give for free half of the Greek market today? What is the purpose of this stupidity? How can you expect it to survive a business that sells below the cost? This will soon be taught as an example of avoidance, as will the Tsipras negotiations with the Troika, such as the entire SYRIZA - ANEL government. Even a first-year financial student will tell you that all of this is a recipe for destruction. Only someone who would like the end of the Public Power Corporation could think of such a project. Only some public enemy! Really, has an extreme neoliberal brain been infiltrated at Mr. Tsipras's service? Black humor I do, black and white, like the spot in Saronicos, because in PPC the inability brings destruction, because in PPC's case it turns out there was never again a government that did so much damage in such a short period of time, because in PPC's case, the inability, the ideology and the inadequacy of the Tsipra government cost Greek citizens a great deal. The energy sector should be one of the three pillars - together with the rural and tourist sectors - for the realisation and development of the national economy, because of our geographical position and because of the diversity in energy production, but also because of the diversity of energy production. You don't know? You don't want to? The sure thing is that you cannot do what is necessary to develop the economy, create jobs, come better days for all Greeks. Finally, because of my Soviet education, I must tell you that your favorite theorist, Vladimir Ilic Ullianov, would have serious objections to what you are doing in PPC. In fact, Lenin's bones will tremble in his mausoleum, since he had set as a prerequisite for building socialism the electricity of a country and you move on to its electricity. Eventually, you look like something more primitive to the flowerers! Do you know them? They were ancestors of the Bolsheviks, some like early workers, wars of the Industrial Revolution in the 19th century, who entered the factories and broke the machines to return people to pure manual work. I hope you don't turn us back so much, but unfortunately that's exactly what you do, for example, with cabs. You fight technological developments to serve taxi workers. Is that possible? You fight startups, you fight Greek inventions, you fight evolution to satisfy workers. We do not expect answers, of course, because they do not exist in all the arguments that have been heard. I'm sure you'll repeat the flares of a virtual reality in which no one no longer believes. The sooner you leave, the better!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much Mr. Kedicoglou. Please come to Stepma, MP Arcadias, Konstantinos Vlassis, to begin for five minutes and thank Mr. Kedicoglou for his references to the flowerers. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u107	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately I come from a county which, because of the Megalopolis factory, is of particular interest to PPC, but also to PPC. Of course, your own Members have more pressure. However, we must raise the tone if you can understand what is happening at some point. So today's debate on the present and future of the Public Power Corporation, which is taking place on the initiative of the New Democracy, should have taken place a long time ago. Black clouds had begun to appear in heaven beforehand, but the SYRIZA - ANEL Government never put this issue to its priorities. Lack of competence and experience, in combination with your ideological tactics and party strangles, have led PPC and the electricity industry to a real dead end. In finding that the viability of the company is now under threat, you are always answering the responsibility of the previous governments, as you do for all the other issues, for all the bad texts of Greek public life. Do you forget you've been ruling for three years already? No one can deny, of course, that responsibilities exist to us, to the previous governments too. But when you declared ready to take over the country's rule, did you know the volume and size of the problems you should manage? What have you done as a government on this matter? If I remember correctly, in 2014 Mr. Tsipras from Amyntheus stated emphatically that SYRIZA is not going to compromise with the idea that PPC would be sold and spoke about a national crime that should be prevented, a crime that even described it as premeditated. What does it have to say about PPC today when we are faced with an economic murder through the depreciation and financial suffocation of the company? But what am I saying? Here, even at this hour, you blame the New Democracy for allegedly selling PPC and you have the nerve to declare that you defend public character. In what magical way will you ensure the public character of PPC, after 40% of the company is sold and 50% of its customers are sold to private producers? You're gonna do something magical, I guess. How exactly do you defend the public interest when within just three years PPC suffered a dramatic stock exchange depreciation when its dues were more than doubled and its debts spread? You opposed any way you could in the New Democracy plan for the small PPC and the sale of 66% of IPTO, through which EUR 2 billion would be secured and you ended up imposing a reduction in the market share held by the company from 87% to 50%, without any consideration and reduced, i.e. the turnover by EUR 2 billion by 2020. In addition, you agreed to sell 40% of the production lignite units. In fact, I have reservations about whether you will be able to save the hydroelectric power plants from this process, even though you can assure the contrary. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] If for you all the above are equivalent to a rescue plan for the company, in my mind - and I believe in most of the minds - it corresponds to a bankruptcy premise, unless you can today clearly tell us the following: First, how are the company's loans to be served? Secondly, how will workers be paid and how will you manage jobs after the reduction of turnover? Thirdly, how will the suppliers of the company be repaid when in two years' time its turnover will be reduced to half? Fourthly, how will PPC's collection be improved, when the financial situation of its citizens, rather than improving, deteriorates? In fact, in the cumulative solution you have drawn up, have you calculated the damage caused to the company by the landslide in the Amyntai mine or the requirements for the modernisation and maintenance of PPC's production facilities? Let's not hide behind our finger. You have no convincing answers to these questions and much more you have no ability to plan and implement a universal solution to the problem of PPC. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I am not going to use my dentistry. Your strategy is one-dimensional and destructive. Inertia and steam. This is also demonstrated by your inability to manage much smaller-scale issues, which could give breath to the company. You are currently familiar with two pending cases. I told you I was from Arcadia. The relocation of the village of Tripotamos, which I have asked several times questions in the House, and of course, as always, you answer vaguely and, secondly, the adoption of the revised environmental impact study to divert the Alpheus river. Both of these cases dynamite the future of the mining activity of Megalopolis. I'm telling you to find out if you don't already know. Do you know that if these cases do not go ahead, in the spring of 2018 will the risk of stopping the lignite centre in Megalopolis be seen, with what this implies? With this indifference you show your social face to the thousands of workers. Do you realize that a possible failure to supply the units is tantamount to a blow to the country's energy adequacy? Apparently not. We'll wait for the first blackout to hear you once more throw the blame on us. The examples I mention may be a drop in the ocean in the face of the general problems that PPC faces. I know that. But for example, it is the way you manage things. You're not doing anything. We may be discussing PPC's problems today, but in reality the most important problem is political and it has to do with your inability to govern this country with the reassurance. You neither had the ability nor the readiness to take over the rule of the country. You love power. But despise the responsibilities and obligations resulting from it, so you do what you can to stay in your chairs by trespassing red lines, moaning ears. In fact, when the problem asks for an immediate solution, you put it under the carpet, you hide it, until the 'bad' institutions pull your ears and then, soon, you come to save us! You know, mistakes do not only define fait accomplices and omissions. The mistakes are not only of a paradoxical nature, but, unlike your rhetoric, they are also found in the present. So stop looking elsewhere for your own responsibilities and admit that you have failed as a government everywhere, because errors are made by everyone, except those who do nothing. But when errors are done on a continuous basis and result in disastrous results, they are defined as failure. As a failure, therefore, you will also leave this governance. That's not gonna change. It's just, the sooner you do it, the better for the place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Christos Boukokouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are being called today through the timely question of the Members of the New Democracy to see the real situation and the real position of PPC and we are obliged in this Chamber on such important issues that we are completely honest, because what is happening in the country's largest energy system concerns the entire Greek society, the whole business community and, of course, the thousands of employees of PPC. We, in our question, draw attention to the existential dangers that this system, PPC, faces today. On the other hand, you say that there are problems, but everything is going well and the situation is being dealt with. You know, Minister, it does not matter what you and we are talking about, because in a globalised economic environment, unfortunately or fortunately, others are talking about us. The comparison of two ratings of the “STANDARD & POOR’S”, the 2014 rating and the 2017 rating, leaves no margin for doubt. I am invoking this assessment, because your Government cannot accept the assessments of the banking system, accept the assessments of the progress of the economy and possibly reject or fail to take into account the assessment of PPC. Therefore, the 2014 assessment of the company by this house was in ‘B’. Besides, it was when PPC came out on the markets asking for a loan of EUR 500 million. She was offered two billion. She raised 700 million at a very good interest rate and a unique mortgage, her unique guarantee of corporate credibility. Was that assessment then an evaluation showing that it was an enterprise that had no problem with it? Of course not. It was, however, an evaluation that showed that it was a business that is still on its feet, has financial self-sufficiency and can design its future and modernise it. What about the spring review of 2017? The rating is ‘CC’. The home notes that about the end of the year the company can be left with liquidity even. It remains negative monitoring, which means that corporate credibility has fallen into Nadir and, in any case, a situation that is totally problematic is presented in this assessment three years later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u110	Is PPC lending today?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u111	At what interest rate and security, Minister? It is loaned by mortgage on the debts of its best clients, while in 2014 it was loaned with its sole guarantee of its corporate creditworthiness. This is the great qualitative difference. Huge qualitative difference! And how can that not happen, Minister? Have you ever seen, which is your subject, if I am not mistaken, in the economic history of humanity, a store, a business that keeps its operating costs intact, assigning about half of its clientele and selling its product at prices below cost and at the same time smiling smiling smugly and burning that everything is going well? That is why I told you at the beginning of my position that the problems posed by the New Democracy for PPC are of an existential nature today. The company is in danger, Minister, to become an economic deaf, and if that - the non-genus - occurs, it will also become an energy deaf. You know, energy bankruptcy is worse than economic bankruptcy, because without inconsistent energy adequacy, no economic problem can be tackled. And it's not just the assignment of the clientele, Minister. It's the culmination of the debts to third parties. Time has come to 2.6 billion. You have a responsibility to prepare yesterday, not tomorrow, a rescue plan for PPC. If you are thinking of inheriting the problems in the next government, we are obliged to remind you and to point out that you will not renounce your responsibilities for the situation in which PPC has arrived. You are the only ones responsible and the comparison of the two evaluation stages proves it by numbers, not by words. I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. You've scorched your dentistry! We'll see when the time comes. Mr Jason Fotillas, Member of the Achaias Parliament, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr President. I'll take my dentistry, too. Ladies and gentlemen, PPC published the results of the first half of 2017. It turns out that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, instead of taking care of the sustainability of the Public Power Corporation, has changed its lights! Instead of providing power for households, professionals, farmers and, more generally, the country's production base, it leads to the country's largest public company with mathematical accuracy in bankruptcy. In particular, the company's net profits are around EUR 14 million, reduced by 75% compared to last semester, which was EUR 57 million. If, in fact, the revenue from the sale of IPTO, 172.2 million, it means that the operation of the operation is purely loss-making. PPC is together with the red loans and the insurance of the three largest bombs on the foundations of the Greek economy. This situation has led the international credit institutions - Mr Bukouros also said so - to lower its credibility. The latest assessment of PPC by the ‘STANDARD & POOR’S’ ranks the company in the category ‘CCC-’, a breath, i.e. before the default, the final cessation of payments. And yet, just in April 2014, the same house, "STANDARD & POOR'S", ranked PPC in "B", creating positive expectations for the future of the company and better lending, and thus in 2014 the company came out on the markets. Remember. PPC then asked for EUR 500 million. She was offered over 2 billion and finally borrowed 700 million, as the previous speaker said, without any assurance, beyond its corporate credibility. Of course, PPC's take-off in 2014 was also a result of the overall positive climate that was shaped for the country's economy that year by improving important financial indicators and taking reform initiatives. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government is fully responsible for the company's anticipation. But let us look at the big thorns in PPC's results: the first thorn is the non-payment of bills by many households and businesses without the government being able to lead the poor payers to pay their payments. Second thorn is the special account of ATEs, the money that PPC and all the power generators have to give to a special account, from which renewable energy sources are paid, mainly wind and photovoltaic. The third thorn is NOME. They're the power auctions. It is paradoxical, therefore, that this method used by the Government and the PPC administration to sell energy below costs to other electricity producers, because it continues to hold a share of more than 51% of the market, while European legislation says that this is forbidden. If, however, a section of PPC had been privatised as we proposed in 2014 with PPC "small", then the part that would have remained in public control would, on the one hand, be enough to regulate the market and, on the other hand, PPC and the taxpayers would not have been charged, since through the state they were the shareholders of 51% of PPC, the NOME costs. I'll add something else here. There has been a lot of talk of the exploitation of mineral wealth and how much ELDORADO pays, a private company, for the gold that gets us. Well, PPC, which 49% of its shareholders are private, pays nothing for the mining lignite. If this is estimated at the cost of the company, it is now visible that you will lead the economy to destruction not by the Memorandum or by the'red' loans, but by a lack of electricity. Finally, I would also like your position, Minister. As you know, there is a small one - I must say it - a group of workers, which, for the last two and a half years, has not been working but paid. They are people who are normally working in units, which have been closed here almost two and a half years, and who even today claim the right to be paid without working. Mrs. Ahchioglu took a seat. I'd like you to take a seat, too. All the above proves that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has no plan not only for the development but also for the rescue of the company. But until you leave, which will happen sooner or later - we hope quickly - we would like to know whether there really is a plan on your part, even to save the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Firela. Minister, you have your honour today. A number of issues have arisen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much for the question. I've heard the New Democracy persistently. I would ask them in dentistry to tell us the position of the New Democracy for PPC, to know and understand it. Because I have heard too much about the destruction that we have brought to PPC - I will respond to this - but I have not heard anyone touching on the position of the New Democracy for PPC. Can I remind you? Full privatisation of IPTO, selling 17% of PPC, liberalising the energy market, as New Democracy had attempted, during the period of the famous companies "ENERGA" and "HELLAS POWER". That was the first release you made! Mr. Hatzidakis, were you concerned at the time whether the market share was giving it free of charge or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u116	Are you defending this crime you've committed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u117	If you were so worried, then, you would have arranged to liberalise the market share of PPC by these amazing companies, you would have also found the regulatory framework to protect the public interest. Because if you fight, if PPC's profits were reduced this year by 120 million, I would remind you that this is a "fessi" we still pay 300 million, and we pay for it this year. So let's get back to the main issues. What was "little" PPC to make it clear? Because what you present as "little" PPC does not correspond to reality. So let me read the second Memorandum to understand what "little" PPC is and if NOMEs were to replace "little" PPC or "little" PPC and NOME. I am therefore reading the second memorandum of your government, which reads: "The adoption of the group for the approval of the part of the PPC Capacity (“Small PPC”), the introduction of NOME - type actions of the incumbent PPC (Public Power Corporation) and three other measures, including the issue of the price of energy, which they considered at the time and consider to somehow increase, in order to incorporate the full cost. Consequently, "little" PPC included 30% horizontally - I stress this - of PPC's presence in production, retail and consumption - had a part of 30% of retail - and additional NOME measures. So your idea that the "little" PPC was a transfer of only 30% of PPC's production capacity and nothing else, is misleading. Let us now go to the debate on the real facts. That was the plan that existed, which was over 30%. So the crocodile tears you shed for PPC's share in the retail market, this dread that comes from 90% to 50%, you probably have to agree with me that it was an inevitable development that the country could not avoid. It cannot have a business with 90% in retail, the energy market will be liberalized and its liberalisation will be completed in 2018, as you know with the introduction of the target model and many other things. So the issue of retail share is, as we know, an open issue, which will be done in various ways, because it is inevitable. Let me remind you and make it clear in my initial position what the role of PPC in the energy system is. PPC currently produces 50% of energy in the country. The other 50% produce it in private, RES, natural gas and imports. The production of 50%, mainly made of lignite and water and small natural gas units that PPC has, was faced as a country and not as a PPC, a statute treaty, which was concluded by the decision of the European Court of Justice some time ago. The European Court of Justice ruling condemns the country rather than PPC and says something very simple: The monopolistic position of PPC in lignite production must be stopped. So from this point on, whatever lignite fields you open, you'll give them to individuals. However, since they are not going to open new lignite fields for various reasons - environmental and other - you will have to take measures to reach the point, 40% of the lignite access to the site will be granted by the concession of PPC's units. What of that wouldn't you do? I call it a good thing. In other words, the European Court of Justice's ruling - you have delayed it twice with various things, I know the arguments, I have followed all the legal claim of the previous governments - and what exactly did you want us to do? What's your proposal? Shouldn't we move on to that? Do not apply the judgment of the European Court of Justice? Find another way? I am entering into what the plan is right now in relation to energy policy, these developments and the way we handled various issues. I'll start with IPTO. We found IPTO, as I said, inherited by the previous government for full privatisation. We said they were networks, we don't need to go to full privatisation, the public can keep 51% and at the same time we need to find a strategic investor who will also pay the money and create benefits for the company with the technology it has or the additional funds it will contribute to the company. As a result, I listen to the criticism of the way IPTO became, because the price was much higher than all valuations. Secondly, the company - the new IPTO - was valued on the Stock Exchange rather positively. I'm trying to see where it is assumed that the stock exchange behaviour of the new IPTO is negative. It's positive. Thirdly, the IPTO is also aspiring with other data to make a huge investment cycle in the country concerning the connections of the islands with far better terms than yesterday. The idea of preventing the investment project is therefore unstable. The investment project is being strengthened in the way we went ahead with IPTO. Public control is maintained as it concerns networks, so by definition monopolistic systems. And fourthly, the company's stock exchange value and its valuation give a positive sign. So with regard to one piece, the part of IPTO, I would like to see much more specific elements that overthrow that image, because that is the picture. The company accelerates its investment plan with the islands, "Cyclades I" ends, there is "Cyclades II", the double interconnection of Crete and others. International and other connections are upgraded and so on. The company becomes more technologically stronger with much greater liquidity and a new investment cycle and with a very satisfactory, excellent valuation, I would say, as soon as the company's stock was introduced into the Stock Exchange. Now we're going to PPC. PPC has, I repeat, dealt with two major issues, which have to be dealt with and dealt with. One is the commitment to sell the lignite plants. As far as this issue is concerned, differentiated from "little" PPC - I would remind you that "little" PPC was mainly hydroelectric and lignite, but had a large volume of hydroelectrics - to clear it up, to see if it is obsessed - ideological or other - or if it is a fact that we must take into account very seriously, since we are all struggling, as you say, for PPC's viability and development. Hydroelectrics have a key point in PPC's finances - and I stress this - it is the most profitable part of PPC's production. Therefore, the protection of hydroelectric plants - beyond being a matter of water resources, and this also has legal and other issues - has a basic economic function for PPC. PPC on the other hand, as you know, supports the country's industrial system at the high and medium voltage, with electricity prices that are being paid to be reasonable, so as not to prevent and support the country's industrial production. This is necessary because it balances the advantage that PPC has - we must maintain it, in order to have a balance - and at the same time does not violate competition rules. So the hydroelectric element is an issue that has been expelled from the reality of the economy and from the need for PPC to maintain this part and at the same time also to be able to balance its commitment and support the operation of the industrial system for years. So one element that we removed from the "little" PPC is exist. It's strategic. It's absolutely essential. It's not ideoleptic. That is why I call on you to avoid a debate on this. We talked about the lignite part. It is a European commitment, inevitably. What we are trying to do - and we do, I think, through negotiation - is to find a solution for the sale of lignite plants, which is on the four criteria that exist in the agreement in the second assessment. The criteria to be met are as follows: This sale must not affect the viability of the company in any way, so it must be done in a manner that does not affect its financial interests. It should also cover three other criteria: to compete with the two pieces, what will remain and what will be sold, etc. Finally, the fourth criterion is expressly formulated. Any procedure considered to be detrimental to PPC shall be prevented. So there is a clear commitment in this part that we will move forward and move forward, despite what is heard that is not being sold, that buyers, etc. will not be found. You will see that at the end of the day this will be done smoothly and at the same time it will also bring benefits to PPC in terms of the valuation of these fixed assets and the attraction of a satisfactory price. It's important now that we get this straight. These are the two strategic moves that are important to PPC's viability and development. Now we are going to the issue of PPC's position and future in a new strategic field. Firstly, we have sought and sought to maintain the highest possible level of production in the country's energy system for security reasons, for too many reasons that we all understand them. That is why maintaining 50% as a core - I would remind you that the concession of lignite is of the order close to 10% of PPC's special weight in energy production - and maintaining PPC as the main pillar of our energy system is the main one and all this debate is trying to secure this role. Secondly, PPC will obviously also develop in new fields and in new fields. Obviously it will fill the large gap of the absence from the RES. It will obviously appear in a wide range of new forms of energy, both in retail and in retail and in its presence in the Balkans and other countries. So PPC's dynamics are not affected. It will also have to be developed - and it will obviously have to be developed - to adapt to a reality which de facto lifts a monopoly position it had in the past. At the same time, however, it is maintained as a basic pillar of the system and there are opportunities to develop without confronting what is inevitable that certain rules of competition, redistribution of shares and opening up the energy market will be introduced. The target model will be applied in 2018. There will be an energy stock exchange for both gas and electricity. There will be great realizations in a very different context. The energy market with all neighbouring countries, i.e. Italy, Bulgaria, etc. will be completed. There will be other developments. So it's a landscape that changes and PPC is invited to change, too. That's for granted. That's not the risk. Now we're going to the workers. There, indeed, I am surprised at your agony, because basic care - we have formulated it on all tons, from the first to the last day - is the changes that are taking place, to ensure that the workers at PPC are assured. It became the IPTO, this whole agreement was made and at the same time the employee framework, collective agreements, etc. is guaranteed. The same will happen with PPC, we assure you. There's no time at all, Mr. Screka. I would like to remind you that we have developed the views of the Government at the General Assembly of General Affairs PPC, the Regional Council of Kozani on the first day. What last moment? As soon as the negotiation discussion on PPC opened, I spoke to Kosani. I went to the district council, went to the General Assembly of PPC. We're in constant dialogue with everyone. There's nothing in hiding. I'd say anything else. We have an open policy on this issue. There's nothing you're asking me to reveal today. I have nothing new to say. I've said it all in public. I can't think of anything that I need to reveal to you today at the very last minute. There's no other secret plan. Since the first day we have had the dialogue open with all, agreeing or disagreeing. I think the last thing we can discuss is that today I'm going to make a terrible revelation. Obviously the negotiations with the Commission have been opened on the subject of the positions that exist in the second assessment. We're on third. I won't tell you what we're talking about right now, because we're in the negotiation. Give it some time to finish. Allow me to do that. I think you'll understand that. PPC further tackles two, three major issues, which you mentioned. Not to dwell on the business plan now. I would say that it did not take two years to do business plan, because we found what you had done in New Democracy. It was a pile of business plan. I discovered that you had a clear strategy and we only have to implement them. The jobs that PPC has been doing these days are very important. Firstly, a strategy on how to adapt to all these new data, what are the options and the best decisions that might be made. Secondly, a specialised study on collectivity issues, for which a lot of things have been done. It is not true that PPC is following this issue without doing anything. Let me remind you of the measures it has taken. First of all, many alternative programs to regulate and settle debts on particularly favourable terms for customers... [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] Give me two, three more minutes, please, Mr President. ...a better mobility on the part of the TENE, especially in terms of cut-offs, according to strategic malpractices, legal actions, action for the benefit of the public for the purpose of regulating debts and recovering debts with very positive results. As you know, there have been very large agreements between the government and PPC on repayment of debts and advances to the public debts for the current year. There was also an extensive policy programme of incentives to household and professional customers, which seems to be performing. I underline that. On the basis of the information you invoked for 2017, PPC's administration invokes certain external, non-controlled factors, which obviously affected PPC's profitability in the first quarter of 2017, which are related to the ELAP deficit, the negative economic impact obviously from the NOME amounts and the recent cost to deal with the energy crisis in December and January. In this respect, the Commission notes that the French authorities have not submitted any comments on the compatibility of the measure with the internal market and that the Commission considers that it is not necessary to assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. On this occasion, however, I would like to turn to the New Democracy, which, on the subject of PPC, has the same catastrophic trend as it had in economic matters, and I would say to her that in the economic sphere, its destructive scenarios no longer have any substance. So he said one, he said two, he said three, but reality goes elsewhere. Nobody listens to them. The European officials, the institutions, all say other things. So there is a problem with the destructive scenario of the New Democracy. The economy has not collapsed or the government is incapable, etc. So the reality is very different. I would say that the project itself of the disaster strategy in the case of PPC may be a little too much, because, in fact, all these steps are being taken. PPC, obviously, has all these results, which are a long way from its collapse, far from being able to borrow, far from the collapse of the stock market value, since you also take into account IPTO, far from having to pay wages and I don't know what else and so on. This catastrophic obsession really impresses me, because the reality is that there are difficulties - and there will be difficulties - as long as such a major adjustment is made to our energy system and PPC is part of this adjustment that is being made, but on the other hand, the data are to be adjusted in a methodical, systematic way and to achieve the desired result, without any of these disasters being made. So, on the substance of the matter, if you want, as to what PPC is doing and what we cannot do and what we must do or correct. No objections. I don't know if neoliberals have entered SYRIZA, etc. I am sure that in the New Democracy you have a destructive behavior of some of my former comrades who, when they were in the opposition, saw everything black. So let us give the dimension that we need. PPC must be saved and saved. It will be the core of our system for many years. She will continue to rely on her employees. Let's set things straight and square. We must do what is necessary in order for the energy sector to change - and it will change - in the interests of consumers and the economy and, at the same time, overcome problems that exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much to the Minister. Let us move on to the parliamentary representatives. I would ask Mr Georgios Georgada, MP Kilkis, to take the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this timely question has a specific target, namely that the New Democracy highlights a risk, which exists and is evolving for the complete depreciation of PPC, for a disaster that occurs. This is evident from both the numbers and the stock exchange and from the picture that has started and is now being created in society by the depreciation of the largest company in the country, which is moving dramatically and now we have a clear future, which - and this has not been pointed out, I think - is enough - the company's administration itself mentions. I have not seen, Mr Minister, that you refer a little to comments from the PPC administration, which differs from your choices and highlights the risks that have been created. In order to understand the consequences of a criminal decision - and the word criminal is not an introductory word, it is indeed a criminal decision that is implemented by the current Government - that we might involve this catastrophe, otherwise, as we have a duty to show it, so that some may consider their responsibilities tomorrow. In order to understand the world, there was a particular obligation of the country in relation to PPC and in relation to its share as a monopoly on the Greek market. The main idea of our obligation was that this market share should be reduced to less than 50%. This is a harmonisation with European legislation in relation to the dominant position that a company, listed on the stock exchange, must not have on a market. New Democracy came and voted to create the "little" PPC. What did that mean? It meant that we are selling a particular share of PPC, vertically integrated and takes about 2 billion - so the price was then calculated - PPC that remains, to make the necessary restructuring in its equipment, to make the investments it needs to be able to have the liquidity it needs and to be able to launch competition. Instead, the government chose another way. Do you know why he chose him? He's not the best. He's not the most useful. It simply does not have a word in it, which is a great idea for the present government. It did not have the word'sales', the word'market'. The government had to avoid a solution that had that word in it. So, instead of selling a share of PPC under the conditions I mentioned before, in fact, the process with the electricity auctions, the so-called NOMEs, on the basis of which the final targeting is to open up the market to other alternative suppliers, so that a healthy competition starts. What does that mean? One word: "The free lives." That's it. In other words, I come, the alternative supplier, I buy from PPC below costs, and not just operating costs, is not counted either through depreciation costs. So I buy 15%, as PPC itself says, under the cost of production, I have the right to have attractive prices and to be able to attract other customers, to get the share that is planned and to drop the market share of PPC. That's the axis. Two things. One very important thing. It would be of great interest, Minister, almost two years after the operation of this system, to see what was sold, to whom and how much has been exported from the country. Because I understand it as an option that will help healthy competition, so it will help to create other companies in the country, start to have more attractive prices and operate what we call healthy competition. When I buy ten and eight I export them at a price below costs and make a profit at the expense of PPC, is that healthy competition? I have great interest in listening to your dentext, Minister, to tell me how many of these quantities have been exported from the country, because unfortunately you did not demand this clause, you did not demand this term from the institutions, and at the moment there is no wall in it. That's the first. Two. The current PPC today, for four years, since the law was passed, the two are almost there, so we are talking about two others, we must every day - and our rapporteur, Mr Hatzidakis, has said so - to have a schedule of every day and say: "I act with damage in relation to the supply of electricity, at the disposal, to my competitors and at the same time to start losing other customers". And that must be four years gradually, while I am bleeding, and I have no liquidity, while I cannot upgrade my units, and I cannot do the necessary modernisation. And at the end of this road, I will eventually have to be competitive with competitors, whom I am helping to get into the market. What possibilities will I be competitive when I have not collected money, when I work with damage, when I get the best customers left and when at the end of the day the bad customers stay, I have 1/3 of the good customers - so it is estimated - and I will not be able to comply with the requirements of European legislation on the upgrading of lignite units and I will not be able to deal with the liquidity issues that I have? While the other solution enabled immediate liquidity, it enabled competition to function immediately and more quickly than anyone who sought to buy the "little" PPC and would not have this drawdown of four years. You said, Minister, before, to be fair, that this procedure was also provided for in the law on "little" PPC. That's right. It was much smaller because we had the given "small" PPC, it would actually complete the whole process and I don't know whether it would need to work. Now, it's a one-way street, you voted for him, you decided on him, why? Because that does not have the word'sales' in it. That's it. There is no word'sale', not to be forced to apologize for selling PPC. You're dismantling PPC. You're dismantling it! You didn't sell it. You're dismantling her. You're sucking her out. At the end of this road, at least four years of the plan for PPC, it is certain that we will have a PPC that has a thousand million problems, which are not solved by your choices, will not be competitive, it will not be upgraded, it will be at risk due to the lack of liquidity, the payroll of its employees and I, even today, am waiting to hear a specific plan, which will convince me that the next day will be able to perform its role both for the country's economy and for the energy demands of the country and for society. This plan, the complete one, I didn't hear it. And all your inadequacy comes, Minister, to add to an overall picture that the government has in recent days, in relation to its ability to manage investments, manage private economy issues, reform issues. The Minister said, Mr Tsakalotos the other day, that he expects line of investors. You know what I'm afraid of? We expect many, but too many claims made by candidate investors for damages suffered by the government: Katar, in other words, Zakynthos. We already have the statement that it will claim compensation for the investment that has not been made possible. At airports, we have a matter, I don't know, it came up, they'll claim money from the country. In Skouries it is not over, it has been threatened to claim money from the country. In Greek, we don't know how it's going. At the end of all this, which you have symbolized as the great investment you support, we can finally see that, instead of helping the country, they have an account in the country, an account which seems to be of no interest to you, because it will be paid by the Greek people but by subsequent governments. You don't have much room to be able to reverse and reverse this whole picture. But call on you to do it, because it's a one-way road to the country, it's a one-way road to the economy, it's a one-way road to all of us. So you must, seriously, responsibility and adequacy, with a sense of responsibility towards the people, manage all these issues that are necessary for the country's relocation. And on the subject of PPC consider, Minister, your responsibilities. Of course you're not the only one in charge. The choices are central. But I insist that the one-way path of this choice, as you voted for it, is a criminal act. This will be verified with the result, which will not take years to see it. We'll see about it in the next few months. So you must assume your responsibilities towards society, towards the economy and also your responsibilities vis-à-vis Parliament. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Mr Georgioda, for keeping time. Please the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA Mr.Ioannis Sifakis, MP Pellas, take the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Honestly, before I say anything else, I would like to express my surprise, not to say my discomfort, for the absolutely hypocritical interest, allegedly interesting, shown by the gentlemen of the New Democracy, the crocodile tears, I would say, for the soundness and dynamism of the Public Power Corporation, which is allegedly being undermined by the current government. And this when everyone knows that your opinion, ladies and gentlemen, expressed at all levels and at every opportunity, is the complete privatization of the energy sector, such as, of course, everything, what is public and upright, including health and education, as was seen from the speech of your Chief, Mr Mitsotakis, in PPC, with an extreme neoliberal logic that fails everywhere internationally, even turning the way to the hatching of the snake, as we see in several European countries. You will allow me to try to formulate your real questions, which you do not believe directly. Why, really, do you not reconvene with the disarming cleanliness of your Chief, who says very clearly his views, such as the unimportant about social inequality, the other about autonomous public schools and much more? Honestly, I think you're wondering: How is it possible with such an attack that you, when you were a government, at the Public Power Corporation to dismantle and eliminate it, how, after three memorials and the interventions of so many business circles that dictated their energy with interventions in the institutions, asking for the country's elected government to be pressed down, how with all the difficult decisions taken by imposing PPC in 50% of production and 50% in retailing, by 2020, forced compliance with the decision of the European Court of Justice on the sale of 40% of lignite plants, losses through NOMEs, developments with the purchase of pollutants and many others, how did all this not succeed in achieving the complete dissolution of the company? How does PPC stand on its feet and develop future extroversion, expansion and other activities, such as energy savings, electricity supply, storage, gas expansion, the substantial strengthening of its position in renewable energy sources, which you had condemned to be completely apart from 3% by matching it with lignite production, so that it would be easily victimised, based on international conditions for environmental protection? How does he plan to play a leading role in the Balkans? How in these circumstances, instead of burdening the final consumer, in view of its problems, has it also made such significant reductions in the consumer as well? How will consumer accounts be further reduced by the smoothing of the payment of the PSOs, until they have been greatly reduced by the completion of the interconnection of the islands, which are otherwise under construction and others being planned? How does PPC continue, as a result of the negotiation of this government with the institutions, to remain under public control with IPTO, the transmission networks and struggle and will be able to remain, despite its retreat to the retail, the capital force in the energy system of the country, ensuring security of energy supply and consumer protection at the peak of vulnerable social groups? How did PPC’s arrangements for the payment of its client’s dues have been very importantly accepted and debts set about 1.2 billion have been settled and the debtors are in line with the arrangements? How does PPC stand, while decisions were taken last year that supported - and rightly - the special account of the RES, significantly helping to eliminate its deficits, have been taken on the other hand by PPC? And here, I cannot resist the temptation to remind you how successful and designed your RES policy was, which gave it all to the Germans for the supply of panels and inverters, when their costs were to God and at compensation prices, which brought ELAP to the lip of destruction, creating huge problems, bringing the energy market, which we supported and rescued. How does PPC, in response to the challenges and in line with European energy data, manage to give the impression of a force which will strengthen above, following the completion of the rapid changes imposed on it, in a profoundly changing energy environment? It'll get shorter but it'll be more robust and dynamic. How with the energy mix that will follow in its activities, surpassing its unique match with lignite production, will it become more modern and stronger? I'm sure that's what arouses your thoughts and so that you don't ask them, as you know very well that you put the nightly bases on PPC's problems, you plunder and you want people to believe that you are really interested in PPC staying strong and effective. The Minister replied one by one to your questions in a very honest and informative way. He questioned, rightly, arbitrary figures you mention and the IPTO, stressing that we cancelled your plan to sell 66% to private individuals, because we considered that the transmission networks are of vital, strategic importance and should remain under public control. And we have been able to deal hard with the institutions. There was confidence in our project, the Chinese 'STATE GRID', the largest company in the world in terms of networks, for 24% at a very satisfactory price, and the IPTO proceeds, ensuring the public interest. Furthermore, it questioned the estimated potential revenue from the sale of the so-called "little" PPC, with real rather than theoretical elements. You remember, of course, that the adoption of this unacceptable policy would deprive PPC of 30% of the most profitable productive potential by selling hydroelectric power plants of 904 MW, A.M.M.M. and of the 2nd unit's licence along with the mines, A.M. and the Amyntium mine, A.S. Komotinis and 30% of PPC's customers. You know, of course, that we have managed not to move hydroelectrically. The plan for the deinvestment of 40% of lignite plants is in agreement with the institutions, as the Minister said, that no more details can be given. However, the direct or indirect possibility of the public being present in the claiming of units was ensured and, in particular, the possibility of the local society being involved and, after that, the de-escalation of the NOMEs which of course were introduced, as the Minister quite rightly said, in the second memorandum and do not blame, as you have voted on. Let us not now talk about your pain in labour rights, which we know is your view of increasing productivity with the working jungle and the fact that you are accusing us of ideologies when we talk about reopening collective negotiations. PPC provided a detailed report saying in 2016 that the company's operational EBITDA profitability reached 866,87 million, a margin of 16,82%, significantly increased since 2015. In 2017 there will be a decrease for external specific factors mentioned in its report, but in 2018 a significant recovery of operational profitability is estimated for more than 18%. And started your predetermined investments in Ptolemais V and in the relocation of Podtokomi. In addition, PPC notes that a decrease in market share is, of course, a reduction in revenues but also a reduction in sales costs. PPC's need to buy as much energy as it buys today in order to be able to sell its retail sizes. This will be reduced and the charging of the use of the system and network will be reduced by the amount it gives for EAGF and other funds. There will be a charge due to NOME. Along with the expected revenues from the sale of 40% of lignite plants and mines and revenue from the sale of a customer portfolio, as well as the expected improvement in the collection and collection for the NGOs of years that will be gradually taken by 2022, it will greatly improve its finances. Therefore, the arbitrary provisioning figures for annual losses of EUR 1.5 billion per year - which you say in your question - are not in any way haunted and are only a pious wish on the basis of what I have said. In conclusion, the last people who are entitled to talk about the Public Power Corporation, the primary role that has to be played today and tomorrow in the constantly changing energy market, the courage, dynamism, the growth of its activities in other fields and its outward action, are you. Your question, however, was a good opportunity for the citizens to hear who went to dismantle PPC and did not succeed, but also the great effort made by this government and the management of the company to continue serving the public interest and to be the guarantor for the lowest price of electricity to the final consumer by applying policies to protect vulnerable consumers and reduce energy poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much. I would ask the Parliamentary Representative from the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos, MP, to come to Stepma. You have the floor, Mr Colleague, for six minutes with a slight tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u123	Ladies and gentlemen, we are in this Chamber, Friday today, five days after the darkest day of the Greek Parliament - at least in the years that I have been here - since the proposal of the Committee of Inquiry on Mr Kammenos was discussed. The debate has resulted in the vote that ended with an outdated transaction. The poison that was spilled in this Chamber will for a long time poison the Greek political scene and will not be forgotten by that dark Monday. Already with the SYRIZA and ANEL transaction of the next few days on legislative initiatives, publicity covers backwards to the Members of the Independent Greeks and - note this - as far as the facts and institutional diversions are concerned, this debate is not over. He's got a lot of time. Unfortunately, there has been an injurious effect. Now let's get to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing the Members of the New Democracy who have drafted a very useful topical question - lapsus calami? Graphic error? A lot of New Democracy and no PASOK, no Yiannis Maniotis, the Minister who drafted the "small" PPC project. It's your fault. Efforts were common, and if anyone has to criticise the other, it is us, because you joined a rescue program in the country, while before 2012 - we had collaborated, but before this cooperation - you said things. In any case, it is life that is and is not forgotten. And when it is forgotten, we are here as a Democratic Alliance and as a PASOK to remind us of this. Now we're going to the point where PPC is, but it's growth. Because in the face of what you say, every publicity of international rankings - by authoritative bodies - of the country's position in relation to competitiveness, we are becoming increasingly out of place. In fact, the latter has had very specific and obvious criteria, the issue of taxation, a number of issues relating to the state to which the shortcomings you create create create create create new conditions that are more negative for the country's classification in terms of international competitiveness. Ladies and gentlemen, the ghost of development that is going on in the country after January 2015 creates an obligation for the Opposition to criticise a crime by this government against development, which is not instant but is lasting. The strong government - in many cases it has proved - strangles the economy and drives the country to great difficulties because it has a huge problem of development and has signed up to 2022 primary surpluses of 3.5%. And majority MPs appear on televisions, ladies and gentlemen, claiming in 2017 as a year to increase private investment, forgetting that this is a result of investments and privatisations that have taken place in the days of the previous government and are now awarding. The "FRAPORT" is part of the Maximos lists that gives Members to say that they increased investments, but it was an investment that you fought, an investment that was decided before you came to us and that is in 2017 with problems, as we read today - if that is the case. I don't share German reports, but I've read them since this morning. Squirrels, Greek, Qatar, "FRONERI HELLAS" - the ice creams that leave and are one of the largest companies in the field - all of this creates a contrast: stateism, populism, nationalist VS development. This is the contrast that bleeds Greek society into the critical conditions that we are going through. And the problem is caused by SYRIZA. The problem is not by object that SYRIZA cannot deal with, but is by SYRIZA's problem, as the Greek proves. The Prime Minister comes out and says "I want the investment", Skourletis goes out and says otherwise, Spirtz wants the opposite, the MP, Mr. Friend in the protest a few days ago was against the investment. And all that with the pretext of keeping legality, which lasts years, to the detriment of the interests of the Greeks. And since the comparison and comparative method prove the truth and the criticism we are addressing to the government today has a headline - "little" PPC, you will say and cry", that is what will be done and already done - the comparison and comparison show the differences. Minister, is there any problem in adapting Greece with the rulings of international and European courts when with "little" PPC it was decided to transfer 30% of its clientele? What's the problem? Is that not compliance with Union competition data? It is. What did you have to do with 30% of clientele and fixed assets - stations, mines - in place of price, or liquidity, and therefore instead of a privatisation effort aimed only at serious investors putting their hand in the pocket? Who are you addressing? It's not for sale, you say, PPC. Yeah, it's not for sale, but it's bought. It is not for sale, but it is dismantled, as my colleague said. It's not for sale, but it's distributed. Good. At what price? For free, what's your name? What do you answer that? We do not respond to that when it comes to the need to record numbers with concepts and considerations. This is a very clear thing. Secondly, because many times you have spoken on behalf of ecology and environmental protection, the programme of "small" PPC was very specific in the need to replace polluting technology equipment, the gradual removal of polluting old technology plants in western Macedonia and the ecological gains - investment, of course, because they had to be replaced - but also the prolongation of the life of lignite reserves. You, the friends of the environment - see black spot in Saronicos - anticipate on the contrary an extension of PPC's polluting units. And why is that a better plan? It's clearly a worse plan. The little PPC was a successful plan that you cut, you didn't leave it, as much more. But here it concerns the damage of your behaviour one of the largest economic units in the country, a real pillar of the national economy, along with the Hellenic Petroleum, and two - three other cases. Beat the columns that support the economic structure. That's what you're doing. And you do not have - from what we have heard in your speech - something very specific to say. You simply have good intentions. Today, to close, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, all the indicators with regard to PPC are downwards. This is a damage caused by SYRIZA-ANEL coexistence. In development, however, you also miss the country, and that is the big one and the serious one. I want you to know, however, that you are looting yourself, because day after day, week after week, month after month, year after year, you are giving the debate today, which we will beat against you for years. What you've been doing today will be chasing you at political level for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much Mr. Loverdo. Please the Parliamentary Representative of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ilias Panayotarou, MP 2, take the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin, I would like to ask the honourable Members of the New Democracy, as well as the PASOK MPs, a Democratic Compact with a new ABM rather: Really, what about the unreasonable events that you had toward PPC as parties, New Democracy and PASOK? Did you set them up? Did you pay them back? Or did you even regulate these as Mr. Mitsotakis arranged the sea-shore loan of "KERYKA HANNIES" to the National Authority? For it is very nice to indicate and give orders how things should be done, but first let us be right with the things of our home. After three memorials, voted by all of you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA, ANEL and the other democratic parties, apart from the remaining ethnic measures that you voted against against the Greek people, you also voted for the substantial dissolution of PPC, the largest employer, of this huge business, which the Greek people have paid for hundreds of billions of billions of euros now, with huge infrastructure throughout Greece. What are you actually doing? You salamify it and give it a piece of it. Mandatory concession of 50% and more of PPC's customers, in fact, is not a random choice of PPC's customers, but these good, well-paid customers, so that the soaps, negatives, problems, including the New Democracy and PASOK, remain in the old PPC. You have created, by the laws you have passed, with the measures you have taken in these years - when you say you have made, we mean financially - the spoken players of renewable energy sources. It is no coincidence that this national, the great leader, Giorgakis Papandreou, even before we know and see how to escape renewable energy sources, told his own friends and acquaintances, in those years, towards the end of 2008-2009, "do your money on renewables"! Like he knew something. You have also committed a technical crime, which is a violent conversion - because this is what you have voted on - the production of lignite power, which was mainly done in our homeland and is still largely done, because it was so the territory and the subsoil of our country and was struggling, in renewable sources or in other forms, without any substantial project and plan, for the benefit of renewable energy sources, as we said before. Without any negotiation to win something on this with the European Union, which you constantly invoke and say that we are obliged to pursue this anti-pollution policy, without exercising the right to buy pollutants - you have this right - but as a country we did not do so. They do other big countries, swinging our fingers that we are polluting, but these have bought pollutants from other countries on the world market and they can and can function and pollute, but you see they have bought more pollutant rights than we have. And the excuse you're saying that if a lot of players get into the game, competition will be for the benefit of consumers, it's not true, it's not working. We have seen it in other forms of privatisation you have done and if we see what the Greek people have been paying for and what they are paying for now, it is probably the same or worse. You have all voted - and you, Mr SYRIZA's gentlemen, and you, Mr SYRIZA's gentlemen, have all agreed on this - graceful provisions, such as the one for the millions of euros owed by Marinopoulos to PPC, which you gave to him by way of a provision, but you did not do the same for any microprocessor, for any poorly populated, unemployed person who does not have a fate in the sun. In our question to the Ministry: "These debts you give, who will pay them?" PPC replied that they will not be charged somewhere. But wasn't that budgeted in a budget? At the end of the day, should anyone not pay the hundreds of millions of euros of the Marinopoulou crook and various other fraudsters, who, by law, are sanctified, at the same time as you are chasing the ordinary Greek citizen? The irrationality of the accounts began on Georgakis Papandreou and we have now arrived at the other party taking the power bill and over 50% of the charges are irrelevant with the current. The current, which in our time is perhaps one of the most necessary goods, after water and food, but which you do not care at all. And we see this when we have reached this absurd point, in a vicious circle, where more and more Greek citizens owe PPC, they go to make arrangements, they cannot, they also come next debts, they are interrupted and phenomena in the year 2017 hundreds of thousands of Greek citizens no longer have power, the rhetoric have reached incredible percentages, and we experience quadrantic situations literally. We believe that you have deliberately devalued PPC, devalued the skilled staff, with your tactics in the last few years of awarding contractors, especially in the mines and elsewhere, unqualified personnel, who have done more damage to machinery, equipment and mines and performance than the well-qualified and experienced staff of PPC. We have also seen the co-responsibility, to a very large extent, of the trade unions of GENOP - PPC. We saw incredible things, PPC's administration sponsored millions of euros holidays and conferences in exotic parts of GENOP - PPC executives. And the case, because it had been uncovered and could not be covered, went to the courts, but as a miracle for the state, PPC does not go to defend its interests and at the end of the day oil and the juror trade unionists, as well as the juror commanders of PPC. We also see government officials going as lawyers and defending those who stole hundreds of millions of euros from PPC, some private companies that made predators and, at the end of the day, we saw what happened, once again the ordinary consumers were asked to pay the broken ones. We heard from a previous speaker - I think it was the Minister - that we have obligations to the European Union, we have agreements, and we have these obligations to PPC towards the European Union, to do so. You have confused, Minister, these obligations, which you say you have, with the obligation of PPC as a public utility undertaking, and your obligations towards Greek citizens. And your recurrings - because as an Opposition two and a half years ago, you were talking about PPC, and finally you did the opposite, and in fact, you didn't do it at all and we lose it from everywhere - led to the definitive depreciation of PPC. And on the substance, he's in artificial respiration. With help, PPC lives and very soon, if measures are taken and all that comes, we will see that, in effect, PPC again costs the Greek people to pay for it. Finally, Mr President, PPC has been and should remain - although we do not see this - the ECJ. PPC is a pillar of the country's national security and should remain in this way - although we do not see this, Mr President - without the distortions of the past, because for decades now PASOK and New Democracy and SYRIZA have made client relations with trade unionists and not just, and they have been acting as sources for the extraction of voters for their party plans. PPC was and should remain a national capital and we hope to bring it back to the future if God ever claims us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, MP of the Achaias Prefecture, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much, Mr President. The question of the New Democracy reminded me of what our people say, that the killer is going back to the crime scene. And he wants huge political courage from both New Democracy and the Democratic Compact to talk about PPC. And we say that, precisely because these parties and the governments which supported these parties are the ones who started the process by accepting the European Union's policy of liberating the electricity sector, reducing and reducing the share of PPC. In fact, this policy, that is, further liberalisation, privatisation, the operation of PPC with privatised economic criteria and profitability, is defending it today. And from this point of view, there is a very big question. It is like saying today that the New Democracy, which wants to be dismantled from the policies that it has followed - but pretextfully, in the words - that there is a painless privatization for the people, that there can be painless for the people. It is like telling the people that there is painless drowning, when the results of liberalisation and privatisation in the electricity sector are also very specific. The JRC, at the beginning of the day, had opposed the liberalisation policy in more general terms of the economy and electricity sectors, when other political forces - apart from the New Democracy and the PASOK - then also supported and talked about healthy liberalisation, for healthy competition, such as the majority of the trade union movement. Since the beginning of the 1990s the JRC had revealed that the real goal of liberation from the state's energy protection, but also from other sectors of the economy, was not, of course, popular prosperity, as was claimed at the time, not to improve the position of the workers, but to create new areas of profitability for the overcrowded capital. Of course the current government also accepts this European Union's policy strategy for liberalisation in the electricity sector and continues on the ground created by the previous policies of the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, and the results are concrete. But let us see codified and concise - because time is not enough - what are the results of these policies, which have been implemented by the previous governments, and the current SYRIZA - ANEL government continues? Consequence first, with regard to the energy mix: Degradation and depreciation of domestic sources of energy, such as lignite, creation of a very expensive energy mix and, indeed, a large part of this energy mix comes from imported sources, such as the exploitation of natural gas for the production of electricity. The second consequence relates to energy security and to the risks posed by this energy mix, much more when the networks are not developed or poorly maintained. So we have to show here that when your energy security depends on imports, then there is a significant risk and a significant problem, and much more, when we talk about a country with huge wealth, about energy sources, both minerals and renewables. The third impact of this political liberalisation on the electricity market and PPC's privatisation concerns workers in the sector. Not only did they improve their position, but the number of workers was dramatically reduced. We were intensified by workers and labour productivity increased, wage cuts and overturning in labour relations. For this very reason, the phenomena of contract workers, the effects of parttime workers and public control of PPC are a fact and tend to substitute workers, with full and exclusive employment for an indefinite period. Fourth impact. It's about people's households. In a recent spring report it emerged that from 2005 to 2015 the electricity price in Greece increased by 157%, a time-consuming increase that marks the management of various governments: and New Democracy and PASOK and New Democracy - PASOK and, of course, SYRIZA - ANLE. This increase in electricity prices, despite increased labour productivity, is a result of political choices, precisely to ensure the profitability of business groups active in the energy sector. For this very reason, it is not accidental to ensure that private producers are given high production prices per kilowatt now. Of course, this is not a Greek peculiarity. Everywhere the policy of liberalisation of electricity has been implemented we have had corresponding results. For example, in Great Britain, which is not in the euro area, the price of electricity in the same period increased by 142%, in Spain by 110% and overall in all European Union countries over the last 15 years the electricity price has doubled. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like one, two minutes This means that in Greece in 2017, more than 30% of people's households are in conditions of energy poverty. In other words, he cannot meet his needs in terms of heating and electricity. We're talking about 30%! Considering the country's enormous energy potential, it is a challenge for this situation to exist in the development of the science, technology and productivity of labour. However, this treaty, with thousands of households in debt to PPC, because they cannot repay high tariffs for electricity, is the result of privatisation policy, liberalisation, armoring and safeguarding profitability and PPC, as well as other capitalist business groups, which are active in the field of energy. It is a challenge to the people's households that the direction and emphasis of the question of New Democracy should be increased PPC's collection. In other words, we're going to force the people's households to pay just to make PPC profit. Are we going to put PPC's bills on auctions?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u128	They don't owe the people's households. Only EUR 100 million are being owed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u129	That is what you refer to and you are too clear in your reference to them. Because the vast majority is about people's households and you don't make anyone completely separate, so that the large business groups that owe PPC are paid for.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u130	They'll pay!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u131	Besides, PPC-type agreements with PPC, PPC-type PPC are a scandal of your own policy and not others.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u132	I'll tell you later about that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u133	From this point of view, we must, of course, incorporate into the more comprehensive planning the government's effort to transform Greece into an energy hub, involving it much more into imperialist planning, implementing US energy planning and, of course, involving it in the risks of war. Of course, the JRC's criticism has not turned its eyes on it in the past. We are not concerned about going back to a 100% state PPC, as it was in the 1980s or 1970s. Because then the state PPC, for the benefit of business groups, worked by selling provocatively cheap electricity and paying the popular households. The example of POSINE is characteristic. So, in order to serve popular prosperity, energy planning must, in the opinion of the JRC, be exempt from the laws of the market, the laws of capitalist profit. Within a framework of centrally designed production, with a view to meeting social needs, a single state energy operator can effectively function as a mechanism for popular power. On such a different development path, by exploiting all domestic sources of energy and raw materials, there can really be an energy planning which ensures: first, that the country is reduced to energy-intensive extent. Secondly, satisfying all the people's needs with regard to energy issues. Thirdly, to ensure infrastructure to meet the needs of the centrally-designed industry, to develop areas and sectors, to improve the position of workers, to ensure the safety of workers in the sector, but also of residential areas and, in general, to ensure balanced intervention of human beings in the environment. So when we get rid of the motivation of the economy and society, capitalist profit and the laws of the capitalist market, then really, the hopes and needs of the people's working family can be met. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Parliamentary spokesman for the Independent Greeks and MP Mr. George Lazaridis speaks for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin, I would like to make a comment to my colleague, PASOK, who spoke about 'poison' which was spilled on Monday. On Monday, in fact, if he believes that it was spilled by a 'poison', the 'poison' was spilled by the person who made the request for an examination and who did not bother to sit down for himself. That's to make things clear! Ladies and gentlemen, the country's energy sector has its own specificities, which make the issue of the allocation of carbon dioxide emission rights extremely critical, given the fact that lignite power plants are the basis of electricity production. Lignite is still necessary for the recovery of the Greek economy. In fact, lignite is the most important energy fuel for the Greek economy. After all, it was based on the electricity of the country and to a large extent on economic growth. The mining and production process is currently employing about six and a half to seven thousand employees as PPC's permanent and temporary staff, and several hundred are also appreciated by the number of workers employed in contractors carrying out PPC projects. The long-term use of the country's lignite reserves has given staff and the company invaluable knowledge and experience, high-level know-how in the study, construction and exploitation of thermal and hydroelectric power stations, the organisation and operation of mines, the development and operation of networks of all voltages. On the other hand, it follows that, with appropriate actions and initiatives, the PPC Group will be able to respond to the difficulties of competition and European climate policy and make it more productive, overcoming any oligopoly, mistakes and omissions of the past and making it financially sound again. In the past fifteen years, the political system has pursued a policy of depreciating lignite, in order to promote the consumption of natural gas in electricity production in every way, by changing the balance in the exercise of energy policy, at a time when natural gas in our country is being honored as one of the most expensive among the countries of the European Union. And this while the extraction and exploitation of the really rich natural gas deposits south of Crete, which could ensure us energy adequacy and economic prosperity, is delayed. Perhaps a system of auctioning for certain quantities of RES power could be adopted by then, which will be channelled and exploited where there is a real need. There is currently no reason to continue a policy of insufficient production of RES licences that de facto creates saturation and an environment of strong resilience and unavailability on the market, leading prices on the wholesale market to negative levels. The contribution of the RES yes, although it has a significant increase, but lignite holds the highest proportion of the Greek energy production system and must be supported, because it is a key element in the security of energy supply for the independence of the country from imported fuels, in improving the trade balance, as well as in the employment and development of local communities. Here we should note that the extraction and exploitation of lignite for the region of western Macedonia as a contribution to GDP amounts to 25%. The Kozani arrives in unbelievable 50%. So it's very important that we be careful about the lignite case. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. PPC's contribution as a single and public body to the post-war production of the country and the evolution of industry is huge, but now it must implement best techniques by investing in the protection of our health and our place. In this context PPC's investment focuses on replacing old and polluting power plants with modern and more efficient, which will significantly reduce emissions by combating climate change, in line with the spirit of the European Union. Because it seems to us that we are going to live with lignite for some time, we need to promote projects to upgrade the environment, infrastructure and development, so that the county can face any adverse effects, but also to ensure working normality and jobs in the private sector in the region. So that's what we're focusing on. We are, however, called today to talk about PPC, but from a different point of view. We're supposed to talk about her course. It is not possible, therefore, to comment on the responsibilities of the opposition parties, the main concerns in various cases of group mismanagement, such as the cases of ENERGA and HELLAS POWER. This particular scandal with companies providers revealed in 2011, in the heart of the economic crisis. Two private providers of the period received citizens' money and instead of paying PPC, PPC ERT, the municipalities, and then the EDUCE sent them directly to their accounts in Switzerland or deposited them on the Athens and Mykonos Night Centers trails and none of the governments at the same time got bored to go to check them out. So here's a clear example of mismanagement, which almost led to the company being dismantled. It is a typical example of a lack of and involvement of some corruption phenomena where criminal responsibilities arise. The penetration of organised interests in the public sector, public enterprises and organisations in particular is your characteristic. And every attempt to get rid of the charges, he'll find us across the street. The Greek people have responded to cases of corruption involving private interests and trade union leaders, that is, the status that you established in the public sector with the well-known results: the fragmentation of public cash reserves, but also the characteristic punishment of the parties to the guild and the family of New Democracy and PASOK. Gentlemen of counter-population, the current government is not responsible for shaping and magnifying this situation that you described with great warmth. There are responsibilities, but on a different basis of time. Your poor political actions have had a heavy impact on the smooth and efficient functioning of public enterprises and organisations. On the contrary, within the framework established and taking the view that the sale of units has been imposed by the European Court of Justice and the Commission, by a decision that brought into force decisions by the European Commission of 2008 and 2009 on the need to address PPC's monopoly access to lignite, but with the protection of hydroelectric power plants, we are trying to give impetus to a vision with a dynamic potential for growth within a modern business program with a change of mentality, with social sensitivity and orientation to the citizen and his needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much Mr. Lazarides. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twelve young Europeans from Germany. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The speech is given for six minutes by the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres and MP of the First Region of Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, while following today's debate, I understood why the desert follows the Greek people. The desert that the civilian staff brought in with decisions that they took in this Chamber and with decisions that they did not take in this Chamber, with questions and answers like today's. So it was created, grain - granules created the country's political staff in this desert. With the truth we could have created forests, you know, something that the Greek people deserved. With the lies, which we have been saying for so many years, we have created a desert. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] We are supposedly discussing, Minister, today for PPC. What are we talking about, though, exactly? How did we get here? But we know that. We started from the Samara plan for the sale of the "small PPC" and the fierce, fierce reactions then by the parliamentary group of the antimony then SYRIZA. Are you wondering whether PPC should sell lignite units or other assets? Don't you know what a sale for the Greek economy could mean? Why do you not answer the Macedonians in particular, to the Greeks in the simple question: Are we, or are we, obliged by the memorials, which have signed all parties together in August 2015 New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA, POTAMI, ANEL, to sell PPC? Yes or no? Do we have room to avoid the dissolution of PPC, since you have all committed the country with the signatures in this direction? That's the question. What have you all done in here to defend the national, the public, the common interest? You are now wondering whether Greek taxpayers will be charged, how and how. What are we talking about exactly, we don't know? You don't know? Ladies and gentlemen, you are talking about absolute openness in an issue that the political system is hiding behind its finger. Everyone in here has helped break PPC's monopoly. And because the Greeks do not follow you in this break and continue to support PPC with the choices they make, now you are trying in every way to respect your commitments to the Troika. You are all responsible and you are hiding behind parliamentary procedures so that when you are finally able to dismantle PPC, you can say that you fought it in Parliament with what you had in mind. This is the purpose of the question of Officerial Response, but that is what the government's answer, that is to find somewhere to hide, to say something, when PPC's dissolution is now evident to everyone. The Centro Association has been very closely following what is happening in the energy sector since the very first time. We have only reached a conclusion: How can the Greek people no matter how much you threaten him, whatever you promise him, continue to support PPC. People don't leave PPC, it's not easy to leave. So the only question, in the view of the Centro Association, that has left to answer is one and only one: What action will all five parties, who have contributed by their vote to the depreciation of PPC in order to destroy it in order to force Greeks to go to individuals? Today's question, in the view of the Central Association, is hypocritical as well as the answers given by the government. They're fake. One thing remains to be proved: How far will the domestic political system reach to dissolve PPC? The responsibility for dismantling PPC has been signed by everyone, as I said before, with the signature you signed in 2015. Everything else is heard by the citizens. We, as the Central Association with the little power we have, can only do one thing: to deprive the fig sheet of the five parties, which are co-responsible for dismantling PPC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr Saridis, and the economy in time. The Parliamentary spokesman for the River Mr Mavrotas is next. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for six minutes and with tolerance, if you need more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. PPC is the company with the most important role in the development of Greece in the last fifty years. The current critical situation has not arisen in the last two, three years. There were inhabited pathogens, such as the government patronage, which made it the number one ruptured reservoir of the country with blurred appointments of american, rich adverts even when it was a monopoly, arrogant subsidies to unions. He also rested in the lignite and he hesitated to enter the EIA race, the Renewable Energy Sources, when he had time, know-how and capital. They added the liberalisation of the electricity market, so a monopolistic elephant had to be turned into a competitive race horse. Very recent data speaks of profit dives in the first half of 2015 by 75% compared to last year and 86.4% compared to the first half of 2015. Thousands of problems in collectivity, the outstanding debts to PPC touch the 3 billion and move to suppliers, which remain unpaid. Here you must say what you are responding to the conclusion of the President of PPC, that dues need more active treatment. We also had incidents concerning the energy security of the country, such as at the beginning of the year, where we had, if not red, an orange alarm for electric adequacy, combined issues relating to the supply of fuel, gas, in this case, and must be set in the context of a long-term energy planning. Speaking of long-term energy planning, ten days ago you replied, Minister, to a question we had asked you since May 2017 on long-term energy planning. The four months delay is negligible in relation to other ministries. It is not, of course, solely your fault, when we are close to six years without any update of long-term energy planning. Did you really measure how much "to" your answer would contain? Twenty-one 'will'. After thirty months in the government of the country twenty a "will" and that says it all. Indeed, I doubt whether it will have been consulted, prepared and voted on by the House, as required, by spring 2018, long-term energy planning, as you say in your reply. I just think you're kicking the can a little bit further. Since we're talking about cans, which you're kicking a little below, I'd like you to tell us if the choice of Mr. Skourletis for NOMEs was finally correct, or it's just a rough, deserving choice to show something to the troika, so that the "little" PPC is not implemented, for the benefit of your left-hand staff and not for the benefit of the company. One option, the NOMEs, which harmed PPC, as she points out at every opportunity. The liberalisation of the electricity market requires PPC to have less than 50% of its retail and wholesale market share by 2020, making part of its production capacity surplus. Several lignite plants have ageed, having a problematic operation within the environmental and efficient limits under the formatted carbon dioxide emission and market regime. Its main shareholder, the Greek State, with 55%, cannot support a brave development plan for PPC. How will we invest, how will it modernise its units, how will it be extended to the market for renewable energy sources, how will it respond to the competition that comes from the single European energy market? But because, in Potami, we are not only making a sterile opposition to the bad texts, but we are also putting forward proposals, already in May of this debate, we have made a five-point proposal. With us, at least, on these issues there is no need for candy to'substantiate' us. First point. A small new PPC up to 30% or 40% or two small new PPC up to 20% each, in order to attract investors to the electricity market. The individual sale of units is unattractive for investors, so it will result in substantial divestment. On the other hand, the sale of a productive portfolio can attract serious investors. The reasoning is that one or two new major players will take the corresponding share throughout the chain of value, i.e. verticalisation from production to retail customers' share, in proportion to good and bad customers of low, medium and high voltage. The second point is the strategic investor. PPC urgently needs a strategic partner with know-how, vision, plan and funds, which will take over the management. In other words, government intervention must be excluded, as is the case. PPC needs to adopt OTE's successful management model rather than OSE. The third point is employment peace and job security. PPC's labour and staffing potential is so specialized and inextricably linked to the mining areas of the fossil resources and electricity generation that it will be impossible for any new investor not to exploit and seek any other staff. The fourth point is to improve collection. The collection is a large nipple for PPC and also responsible for the SYRIZA Government, which created strategic mispaids. It is therefore proposed to remove from PPC’s accounts the remaining charges in favour of third parties, ERTs, municipal taxes, fees, etc., which lead to their growth and their subsequent problematic collection. The fifth point is the model ‘COSMOTE’ for PPC Renewable Sources, including other modern activities, energy services, decentralised production, smart Grids etc. That is to say, a greater shift in renewable energy sources, which are a comparative advantage in the country. Along with the interconnection of the islands are the big bets to optimise the system, to gain more degrees of freedom. PPC Renewables as a 100% subsidiary of PPC to be transformed into the business standards of "COSMOTE", allowing the State to take advantage of the many opportunities in the field of RES, but free from the inconveniences existing. And not exclusively in the RES. This subsidiary could also take over the part of energy services, energy services, a very dynamic new energy sector with demand interventions or even participate in decentralised production, network interconnections, autonomous systems, diffuse systems, i.e. modern solutions, especially in the relief of our country with these islands and so many mountains, have a rich scope. These five points we believe will help to get PPC out of the deadlock in a sustainable way. In other words, as a long-term solution and not as 'blocks', we will be able to get us a semester below. To close - and to use the topic terms - in recent years PPC seems to have been short-circuited. In PPC decisions, a compass should always be the prospect of sustainable development with its three pillars, the economy, society and the environment. Energy decisions are primarily decisions aimed at pooling these three criteria. All options available at the table must be assessed in the light of these three criteria: economy, society and the environment. And because in a degressive course every decision means a change in the status quo, PPC needs bold decisions and undisturbed situations to come out of the crisis. She must stop fighting backs, weaned by the government patronage and look at the future, gradually preparing for her post-linguistic era. He has the know-how, he has the staff capacity, all he needs is to demolish the client cultures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u140	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the River. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the first circle of speakers and parliamentary representatives has been completed. We will continue with the second cycle, with the second half of the Members of Parliament. The first is Mr. Screkas. Mr. Screka, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, I cannot say that we were satisfied with your answers because you did not actually answer what we asked you. But since I do not want to leave anything unanswered, I will tell you that the first programme for the first sector announced was for the energy sector. And I will send you after the end of the meeting the New Democracy programme, which is clear, is about the entire energy sector and of course about what we are thinking and what we are planning to do with PPC. But to come back to what you have said, I have told you, but it seems that you did not understand, so I will have to say it again. You have presented a situation that almost everything is ideal, that PPC is going very well, that it is preparing to make big investments, that it is not a question of saving PPC, that on the contrary it will proceed to new investments that will bring a prosperous future. Repeat: In the first half of 2017, compared to the first half of 2014, PPC has lost a profit margin of more than half a billion euros. PPC this year, 2017, except for the extraordinary revenues from the sale of IPTO, will have operational losses that can be close to all 400,000,000 euros. If you think a company like this has no problem, then I can't say anything. You mentioned the IPTO by saying that the price was too high and that the relocation was too good. Listen, Minister, what SYRIZA did. The state of SYRIZA proceeded with a relocation of IPTO in which PPC lost 100% of IPTO's shares. PPC received EUR 296,000 from the Greek State and EUR 326,000 from the Chinese investor, "State Grid". And next year PPC will have to pay back taxes to the Greek State 312,000,000 euros. So the net revenue from the sale of IPTO will be less than EUR 310,000,000 at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u142	You don't want to pay taxes, that is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u143	In other words, the state of SYRIZA - listen, ladies and gentlemen, what the state of SYRIZA has done against PPC - what it has done is to pay EUR 296 000 000 to buy 25% of IPTO and collect 312,000 euros of taxes from PPC. But why would PPC for EUR 600,000,000 just a price pay 300,000,000 euros, Minister? Because PPC pays tax for the shares that were paid free of charge to the shareholders. In other words, PPC returned shares worth around 490,000,000 euros - 49% - to the shareholders and that's why it's going to pay tax...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u144	To the private.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u145	..private shareholders and the public. That's why PPC will pay 150 million tax, so that the shareholders will have the shares free of charge. Is that what you think is in the public interest? So PPC lost its most expensive, most valuable asset for 300m euros, and you here come and celebrate that this is a successful method of exploiting public property? Report on hydroelectrics. You referred to the previous government's programme for "little" PPC. Minister, during the previous period of the New Democracy Government, PPC had a market share of around 90%. If he sold 30% of his clientele and production capacity proportional to what would be left to the parent company, then the market share would be limited to 60%. So PPC should, Minister,...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u146	And production...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u147	Allow me. PPC should reduce another 10% to 50% - if we should, because we do not know - which you have agreed. PPC would, however, have around EUR 2.5 billion of the proceeds from the sale of "small PPC", with at least 500 million more than 66% of IPTO's sale, i.e. it would have EUR 3 billion in its fund today and would have a 60% market share and would have to lose 10%. Today, PPC with your own plan has about 500 million operating losses that it will show this year, has 85% market share, which must be reduced to 50% and is forced to sell NOME below costs, until the market share there is reached. On the other hand, you have legislated ELA and other legislation that destroy PPC. It's not your fault. The previous Minister did it. And in a question I asked him here, from this Step - and I had also sent the Vice-President of PPC at the time - he said that PPC would not be able to withstand this legislative regulation of the government. So you knew, Minister. Your government knew about it, but you have made this sadly destructive choice, apparently. I understand your difficulty to justify unjustified. I understand the position you are in. The situation is difficult. I repeat - and I want to make it quite clear - that the question of PPC cannot be a matter of micro-party confrontation for political exploitation. But I must say, Minister, that there are serious responsibilities in this government, and I would like to invite you to assume these responsibilities and to proceed as quickly as possible to a project that is in the public interest, in favour of PPC, for the benefit of Greek society and the workers. Because this plan, which we do not know in its entirety and which you are promoting, another to get a client account - if it takes - another to get individual units - if it takes - and PPC in the meantime to sell energy up to 30% of its production through NOME, below its cost, does not make anything. On the contrary, this project strengthens the foundations of the Greek economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Comrade, please complete. You've already exceeded time. And in the protology you were tolerant, and in dentistry you see that there is already tolerance. So please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u149	I shall conclude, Mr President. The government breaks down the country and destroys PPC. We as a New Democracy are not going to allow this. The government condemns the country to the backwards. We now see that it tries with legislative provisions and legislative initiatives to abolish innovative technological patents, such as 'TAXIBEAT', Greek invention and implementation, just for the vote. All on the altar of vote, Mr President! The time of Mavroyaluro resurrects with the SYRIZA - ANEL Government! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr. Screka. Mr. Bukokouros has the floor for two minutes. Please be brief, because you have already spent more time in your protology than you had.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u151	I shall try, Mr President, to be in time. Minister, Mr. Screkas gave you the financial information. I shall confine myself to a comment. I've noticed your prototype. I counted about thirty two "will": "Will" remain hydroelectric. Investors will be found for lignite production plants. "They" go to new forms of production. 'They' will enter the retail trade in these new ways. PPC will be extended to the Balkans. 'We will' deal with the problems that are, in fact, serious'. Minister, you know better than us that in these cases of modernisation, business competition, the unit of measurement that matters is neither the euro nor the kilowatt now, nor the dollar. The unit of measurement, the real currency is time. That's why we control you today. Late designs and delay and implement them. So we're wasting time and time is money. Everyone understands that, especially in an undertaking that faces such and so many problems. Our Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Georgiotis, revealed in a way of glaring, I would say, and your ideas, which you refused. In order, Minister, to avoid a word, the word'sales', we have essentially led to the sale. From the sale to the seller of the product, the customer list and so many others. Ideas are not helping to deal with such issues. As for the lack of a plan from New Democracy, you have just heard that it is one of the first government positions that has been presented, it has been posted and you can consult it. But I would say to you, Minister, that you would be surprised if you saw the positions you expressed as opposition, the positions you expressed in the early governance of SYRIZA - ANEL, the first months and the first year of your administration and the positions you express today. Drag behind the facts behind the Memorandum Responsibilities and this proves a lack of planning. I don't like to talk to Parliament about assholes. I don't have that phrase. But I would say that your transformations are obsessional and results are not achieved. We are expressing this concern with our current topical and urgent question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr. Bukkoro, actually in time. We will continue with the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative. Mr Georgioda, you have your second language and you will have the opportunity, if you will, to use the time of the tritology, to complete it, and the Minister will close today's whole session. Here, Mr President, you have the floor for six minutes and we see how much time you will need.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u153	I will not need any more, Mr President. Minister, outside the narratives there are numbers. I am thinking of asking you a few specific questions and I would ask you, if you have the opportunity, to give me an answer. Currently PPC’s operational use is injurious. There was the amount from IPTO. It was explained why he is injurious.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u154	That's not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u155	Right now, the numbers so far are 140 million. Come and say. This has been announced. In any case, I don't think he's very profitable but injurious. We have three data. The first is that there are obligations of the company and these obligations, you know, are too great for 2019. It's ECU 1.9 billion. for 2019. The EUR 1.2 billion is from bank loans that need to be renewed, updated, and the others are from two bonds. It's ECU 1.9 billion. In accordance with Article 21 of the We have the presumption that from this operation at the moment and from the electricity auctions PPC declares that it has a cost, is damaged. This in the first quarter was 28 million, as PPC itself says, which says it sells 15% cheaper than its cost. This must continue. We have a given that the turnover, i.e. the market share, must be reduced. This is your commitment, you've made it, you're committed to it. It must reach 85% -87%, as much as the market share today, at 50% in 2020. I mean, we're reducing the cigarette. We have damage. We have the same human potential as the eighteen thousand workers. Consider that at the end of 2019, with half the turnover, I understand that when the market share is falling there - with these injurious uses, with the obligations of 2019 - in 2018 they will be less, in 2019 they will be very increased - and at the end of this road they will have to have a business that has to function, have liquidity, be able to pay its employees, be competitive, have made the necessary improvements to its equipment, its factories, and comply with their European rules. I don't know how it gets out. If you can, I'd like you to explain to me how this all goes out with numbers, because, as you know, it's another thing to say that we assume that, we'll do that. I want on a linear path for the three years -2017, 2018, 2019 - to tell me how you calculate it in economic sizes, in financial numbers, based on these obligations, these data and how it comes out. That is where we come and say whether in the end the sale of a section of PPC could have been a better option and made real investment? You know what? And those who buy today can't know what they're really trying to attract from the domestic market or really what they're trying to make on time by exporting electricity they're doing abroad and maybe they don't care if they see that it doesn't interest them to get a share of healthy customers. And we may not have reached the number we have to reach. In other words, we may have done all this and at the end of the road we may have to make an extra move again to reduce PPC's market share. The fact that we are currently giving the possibility of selling so that competition can be healthy does not mean that it will also lead to the results we want. We may also have additional interference in the course of this case. I therefore believe that the situation is really a marginal one. Seeing her, you're in the middle of the road. So, seeing where it leads now, you must speak in a clear way, with responsibility for Parliament, with responsibility for the workers, with responsibility for those in need of electricity - to the industrialists, to the craftsmen, to the households - and to give us the image that really will convince us that we are leading to a resolution of PPC while complying with European legislation on dominant positions, which we were obliged to follow anyway. I, Minister, with the very few data I can collect, but which I think are important and useful, do not think that this calculation is coming out, and that is why I think that your own responsibility - you - happened to you - is to find the way to reverse this course and, above all, you have the responsibility of presenting a specific plan to Parliament, so that we all know that there is not only an intention, there is not only a pragmatic approach to the matter, but there is also a real and substantial programming. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr. Georgioda. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u157	I am very pleased that things have now entered a specific framework that exists. Firstly, we all understood what "little PPC was". Until now there has been the impression, as New Democracy and the Democratic Compact gave it, that "little PPC" was some kind of intervention, which would have solved all the problems, and there would be no discussion topic today. We found that "little PPC" was small - large PPC, because PPC - I repeat - has 50% of the production of the country and when it leaves 30% - if my mathematics is good - it means that PPC would stay a 35% producer in the country's national system. We also found that "small PPC" did not cancel NOMEs, but NOME came in addition, beyond 60% of Mr. Skrekas said, to further reduce PPC's share in retail through NOMEs. It was therefore restored a very fundamental truth for those who defend "little PPC", the supposedly great project, which would be destroyed. The third and final argument of the'small PPC' is that I hear it with some scepticism. Suddenly, PPC would take 3 billion, because the process of "little PPC" is so much appreciated. I skeptically hear all this. In fact, what was it? The policy of the New Democracy was very clear, despite the fact that it refuses to repeat it here. I think it seemed clear now that PPC, "little PPC", "little - large PPC" shrunk PPC's special weight as an energy producer in the country around 35% and what remains would proceed to its full privatisation by privatising 17% of PPC. The full privatization of all companies, including IPTO, for which we are criticised and all other energy companies, is the policy of the New Democracy, clean and unconscious. We, as we have seen from the debate, have another policy, which has successfully taken place with IPTO. Obviously all of what you have analysed, Mr Skreka, is based on a very simple principle, namely that the public as a shareholder did not make money out of one pocket to put it in the other public pocket. This is true, indeed, but the whole other scheme you analysed showed that the transaction to IPTO has full coverage of PPC’s private shareholders, that it has to pay tax. Unfortunately, they are still paying the companies tax in this country. When you come you may completely abolish taxes on companies, but until then, when they are bought or traded, they are unfortunately paying tax on companies and you cannot pay them. In conclusion, I would like to say on matters that have not been answered, on the NOMEs and on the issues involved, that we are moving forward on a step-by-step. Not to go back to the lignite part, because I think we covered it. For NOME policy, I would like to make it clear to everyone that because we considered PPC to be more productive than in the'small PPC scenario' - that was our position and still - there had to be the NOME mechanism. There's no other way. I want it to be clear to everyone that so far four auctions have been made and on the basis of the price of EUR 32 have been awarded for 37.5, 41, 40 and 43. I say this to mitigate the picture that the NOME mechanism produces terrible damage to PPC. At these levels, prices are'satisfactory', precisely because other prices, much closer to 32, would be the ones that would produce actual losses. These are very close to the variable cost, to put it this way. It does not depreciate, but it is very close to the variable cost, up to a little above it. Secondly, the question of exports was raised by a Member of Parliament. In these four auctions, the valuation is that, so far, exports are 5%-10% of these quantities. I fully share the anxiety and I think we need to take care of this, despite the fact that we have been able to do so in the first phase. It's got to get a roof on exports. There is no doubt about that, and I would like to make it clear. In conclusion, I would like to say about PPC's evolution in the different parts and strategies, which PPC has chosen. Because it has been formulated in several tons whether the views with the government are fully harmonised or different, and because different views from PPC are sometimes expressed in relation to some government choices, I would like to say that this is not a problem for us. It overthrows the theory of Potami that we control PPC and tell her what to do, how to do it, etc. We believe that the government is called upon to manage policy issues, to create the framework. From there on, the company is obviously autonomous, listed on the Stock Exchange and it is not very good to have this political influence. We are opposed to this, namely that there is a level of equilibrium, that these things are resolved in a proper and creative way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u158	We thank the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Statatakis, and for the economy in time. The debate on number 33/23/27-6/2017 on the subject is closed: "The Government of SYRIZA - ANEL decides, agrees and executes the bankruptcy of PPC". Ladies and gentlemen, the minutes of Monday 17 July 2017, Wednesday 19 July 2017, Thursday 20 July 2017, Monday 24 July 2017, Tuesday 25 July 2017, Thursday 26 July 2017, Thursday 27 July 2017, Friday 28 July 2017, Monday 31 July 2017, and the morning and afternoon sitting - Tuesday 1st August 2017, Wednesday 4 September 2017, Wednesday 6 September 2017, Thursday 7 September 2017, Friday 8 September 2017, Friday 8 September 2017, Monday 11 September 2017, Thursday 14 September 2017, Friday 14 September 2017, Friday 15 September 2017, Monday 18 September 2017, Monday 18 September 2017, Monday 19 September 2017, Wednesday, Wednesday 20 September 2017, Thursday 21 September 2017, Thursday 21 September 2017, 22 September 2017 and 22 September 2017 have been distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u159	The minutes of Monday 17 July 2017, Wednesday, 19 July 2017, Thursday 20 July 2017, Monday 24 July 2017, Tuesday 25 July 2017, Wednesday 27 July 2017, Thursday 27 July 2017, Friday 28 July 2017, Monday 31 July 2017, and the morning and afternoon sitting - Tuesday 1 September 2017, Wednesday 2 August 2017, Thursday 3 August 2017, Thursday 3 August 2017, and the morning and afternoon sitting - Friday 4 August 2017, Monday 28 August 2017, Monday 28 August 2017, Thursday 31 September 2017, Friday 1 September 2017, Monday 4 September 2017, Wednesday 6 September 2017, Thursday 7 September 2017, Thursday 7 September 2017, Friday 8 September 2017, Monday 11 September 2017, Thursday 14 September 2017, Thursday 14 September 2017, Friday 15 September 2017, Monday 18 September 2017, Tuesday 19 September 2017, Wednesday 20 September 2017, 21 September 2017, 22 September 2017, 22 September 2017, 22 September 2017 and 29 September 2017 were valid. The end of the proceedings of the Second Session of the IZ Period of the President-in-Office of Parliament is hereby declared. The relevant Presidential Decree will be published in the Official Journal of the Government and will be tampered with. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-09-29-S1-commons.u160	With the consent of the House at 14.40 p.m. the meeting for the next Monday, October 2, 2017, at 13.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: a) communication of the Presidential Decree on the termination of the Second Session and b) sanctification of the opening of the work of the Third Session by the Macedonian Archbishop of Athens and all Greece Mr. Hieronymou and the members of the Sacred Sacred Session, according to the special agenda to be distributed to you.
