ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: “Retirement regulations of L.4387/2016, arrangements for the purchase of games, for the “Greek Casino of Parnitha S.A.” and other provisions”. Before giving the floor to the first speaker, I would like to make a statement. The European Parliamentary Representative, Mr Ioannis Saridis, is hereby appointed as the Parliamentary Representative in place of the Member of Parliament, Mr Anastasios Megalamustakas. A special speaker remains the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis. Mr Theocharis Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I wonder how someone should think about a bill like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u3	Positive!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u4	On the one hand, it must weigh the regulation of a sensitive market, a market which in many cases leads to addiction. And we have as a state to support and protect these people. On the other hand, he must pay attention to ensuring that an investment based on privatisation, a sale of a right not to change to the worst or better. To be fair to the investor on the one hand and, on the other, not to blame the others involved on the other. And above all, to help and strengthen the weapons and tools of the state to deal with the worst of phenomena, which is illegal gambling. What has the state done for all these issues? Why are we here changing the terms of an investment that's already running? Why have the regulations already changed three times? Let us try to unleash them, ladies and gentlemen, briefly. We are here - and we must say this - by mistakes of the state, of the previous governments, but also of today. First mistake: a right has been sold hastyly - we may have had time to close a hole. About half a billion was in the Memorandum at that time. That kind of rush is no reason not to do anything right. We heard Mr Giannakopoulos, the then chairman of the Committee on the Games, telling us that another bill came, has changed, that it was finally adopted. And finally, many of these provisions, which we are voting on now, felt that he and his committee had to come in from the first bill. Secondly, we have changed the VLT'S regulation on this particular market three times, depending on the deafness of each government and the respective chairman of the committee. We had the balanced regulation of PASOK - New Democracy, we had the avenger regulation of the "baroufakia" Left, and now we have the regulation of the removable neoliberal Left, which governs us today. You have managed to reduce the amount of investment to half by these changes and the taxes you have made. That is what the report itself says, which the Minister has submitted to the committee, says in his report 'DELOITTE'. Another investment has been taken and others are currently in their hands. Thirdly, we are introducing conditions such as the thirty-five thousand machines and the thousands of five hundred shops which do not allow control. We have been told by the President of the EEPC, Mr Karagiorou, that under these conditions there is no possibility of control being carried out, there is no possibility of protecting people who have a problem. Less machinery, less shops, better control means fewer offenses, less addiction. Fourth and most important mistake: you left - and the previous ones left - the illegal gambling uncontrolled. Estimates report 6 billion. Let it be 5, let it be about 4, half of it is lost revenue and, above all, it is done in an environment uncontrolled. We ban alcohol and illegal "fruits" also serve alcohol. So, what are we talking about? Which state are we talking about? When all the lost revenues from fuel smuggling are 300 million and we talk from morning to night in the public debate only about them, something is wrong with the Kingdom of Denmark. Hypocrisy, leaving people and families unprotected. I put a question to the Minister responsible, Mr Toska, on the issue of what the police are doing and answered other words to be loved. The first quarter of the year said, they examined twenty - six cases. Is it possible when the president of the OPCW told us that the last four months were sent to the police two hundred and twenty-seven cases? Where is the political will? This is a confession of total failure and lack of political will. Who are you afraid of, ladies and gentlemen of the conflict? Why do you let the illegals perpetuate themselves uncontrollably? Justice has shown better reflexes. We read in the papers that the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, Mr. Vourliotis, acted with his circular, the Prosecutors. We must see this as an opportunity and we must act on the mechanisms and stop this phenomenon so that we can finally have control. I am tabling all three documents in the Minutes, and my question and Mr Toska's reply and the relevant publication of Mr Vourliotis's circular. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if they are fifty, forty or sixty the best number for machinery at each shop, I cannot say it. What matters, in my opinion, is neither to change the elements of the investment worse nor, above all, not to favour the OPCW with these changes in the conditions that you have made today. I am reassured that the extension of the contract retains the value of the investment over and above it. But, Minister, in order to reassure ourselves, we have to see that there is no question of the European Commission. Why do we have the same practices again? Why don't we learn from the mistakes of the past? What happens if, in six months' time, we have a negative response from the committee and we are coming back to change the terms again? Is it possible to make the same mistakes all the time? I am therefore positive for this bill and will vote for it. However, it is a crumbling bill, a bill that does not make self-evident: some funds in particular, a percentage of toy revenue, are required by the state through the CECE and other bodies to support people in addiction. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Where are the gaming tools? This should be supported in order to ensure that such a bill is balanced. Mr. Giannakopoulos told the committee that in America, on the spot, these machines are being destroyed. Why have we not given the police a mandate and, if necessary, legislation to do this, where these disasters occur? If he gets inside an illegal space and there's no license, there's no way it's gonna be a complete disaster. Only that way will the right messages be given to these people. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill reveals - and I am ending this - hypocrisy, in fact, governments and political systems.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u5	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u6	I shall conclude, Mr President. We are talking about banning gambling in full. We also heard from the JRC that we should ban gambling. And yet we leave illegal gambling uncontrollable. We are talking about investment while privatising, closing factories and going down to competitiveness step. You're talking about rule of law and justice and we're leaving the illegal uncontrollable. We're talking about moral advantage and you sell through suspicious routes and mediator weapons and ammunition. You're talking about interlocutors, and yesterday the Minister took back the tax he accused the previous governments of suspending him and he gets him back permanently. You are baptising ‘partition’ the neutral financial support of PPC or the payment of judgments. This hypocrisy continues eight years in the crisis to permeate us in reality, and this hypocrisy does not leave us and will not let us out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u7	Mrs Ahmakopoulou from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today I shall speak for another amendment which is the result of the unconstitutional legislation of the famous Poppa Law, the failed minister - canal ruler, for the purpose of regulating the television scene. So the sewage - she was extinguishing the Pappa law - is still going on today with an amendment to Law 3854/2010, which is the first memorandum which, by analogy, imposed a special tax on television advertising of 20%. With today's amendment, therefore, Mr Papapas provides for a reduction of the tax from 20% to 5% and in the explanatory statement he admits that this is directly linked to the forthcoming tender for television licences and the price that the government will receive from it, but also to 2% of each company's annual turnover, which we also agreed to put for the journalists' pension fund. The reduction will therefore concern the owners who will take part in the tender. So before I analyse the reasoning presented to us by Mr Pappas for today's initiative, I would just like to remind you that today's amendment, as I said to you, is a follow-up to this terrible unconstitutional Papa, a piece of legislation that was first passed in 2015 and then amended eight times. You are also voting on this - you are voting, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, eight times for the unconstitutional and clearly unprecedented Pappa law. Why don't you just incite them! It is a law that originally provided that Mr Papapas himself would define the number of channels, but also the starting price. Following this, on the basis of the approved study in Florence that four permits would be four, following changes to changes and amendments to be with the Minister's pressure of seven licences at the moment and the price of setting at EUR 245 million a total of 35 million the licence, based on the outcome of the previous tender, which was cancelled because the law was unconstitutional. So we come today on the basis of this reasoning of the Minister, which - let us say - was imposed or prevailed throughout this whole process, after a sad, truly, parliamentary path of this legislation and do what? Here comes the Minister and presents the canals. That's what she's coming in and doing. After we've seen this whole route, I want to see why all this is happening. We have heard in the last two years from the Minister that he has declared the war against canalarchs, he will strike corruption and strife, he will give transparency and regulation to the television scenery, he will eliminate suspicious transactions. You know, "possible transactions" are those that a canalarch is behind closed doors with a political person and only a cat listens to what they discuss. That will be done away with by Mr. Pappas. We also heard that permits would go to the owner in the most transparent way. For example, that's what's going to put a warranty on the pasture to get a license. That's what Mr. Pappas would do! How much mockery now after the failed contest? But obviously the target was never him. It has never been the objective of regulation or transparency, as Mr Pappas claims today with a great deal of courage. The goal has always been and still is one: media control, channel control, web media control that has been enclosed in a small one to better share the regional press's public advertisement, which is deceived and under fragmentary provisions, is threatened to serve today's gourd. The aim was to control an effort which failed to control the advertising pie with a system which Mr Papapas, with spectacular political precipitation, took back the control of public television, which has a television broadcast on the tartars at such a time as to decide that no measurements of ERT's viewing are made. Unfortunately, however, for Mr Pappas and Mr Tsipras they did not get that effort. His law was considered unconstitutional, his competition void and his own were left without permission. So what do we do now? What is Mr. Pappas doing now? What did he decide to do? Let's find them, he tells you, with the canals. These are the 'bad' canals, which so far we have been the ones to defend. And so, another proud negotiation of Mr. Pappa began. I read from the RES - and I assume that Mr Papapas will not tell me that he has some make news - the post entitled 'Transfer measures to sustainability'. There Mr Pappas says: "We and the station owners never chewed our words." That's how Mr. Pappas roars. It reveals, of course, that they have had talks and there are many demands from canalarchs. That's what he says they couldn't, they shouldn't have been accepted. I know that the people say 'big bite eat, big talk don't say'. Why is Mr. Pappas coming today and what is he doing? It reduces advertising tax, which suddenly characterises as heavy and excessive: "I am the first to say that tax burdens are high and it is not good to have such arrangements." So he is suddenly interested in what the 'bad' canals will become. Now, the desire of the state and the government is to make the stations sustainable, and in this context we are moving. How much mockery now, ladies and gentlemen? On the one hand, Mr. Poppas takes it with the contest, and on the other hand, he gives it back to the canalarchs. At best, 245 million of the licenses and on the other hand, based on the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, the Greek State is suffering 200 million from the advertising tax. Meanwhile, he openly admits that he speaks with them. Why? Because he's afraid the law will again be judged unconstitutional. Now that I think of it, ladies and gentlemen, this foolishness of Mr Tsipras 'I take it from here, I give it there' is exactly the same thing that the Prime Minister told us yesterday: I get 14.5 billion from the people and I give 700 million back. I take it from the canals and give them back by reducing the tax. The mockery goes on, but we won't tolerate this mockery. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, for a minute, please. I want to be absolutely clear. Absolutely! We are in favour of tax reduction and this tax on channels is also unfair and excessive and should not go to 5%, but to 0%. This should not only be done for the channels, because they do not only pay 2%, since it is linked to it. Why not in the press? Why not online? Why not radios? Not just the channels. It should be everywhere. We would vote 'yes' on that. But in mockery we will vote 'no'. We shall vote on this amendment, and we shall vote on it. Because we will be here to ensure tax evasion, to ensure the sustainability of not only the media, but also of entrepreneurship. Because you are the only thing that's of interest to you is to ensure the sustainability of your political existence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u9	Thank you. Mrs. Thleritis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that today we are discussing a bill on the regulation of gambling. Gambling is a difficult issue, because there is illegal gambling, but also the addiction produced by it, which as a society so far we have not dealt with as it should. This bill makes an effort to improve the conditions for the provision of gaming services in order to protect the social group as much as possible from addiction and to protect vulnerable groups, young people, minors and overdue adults. With this new framework of operation which is deleted within the law, the limitation of the number of players and the abolition of the possibility of granting third parties is an attempt to limit the dispersion, particularly in urban environments. In other words, reducing machinery from thirty-five thousand to twenty-five is an attempt to reduce the parties to gambling as much as possible. Also, this spatial planning and distribution seeks to be able to have better control over the implementation of regulations and legal actions during the course of the games, and to limit illegal activities such as trafficking and money laundering, fraud and the destruction of individuals' money. Even in the way that these services are legally provided, the legislator considers that it can be limited as much as possible or that the illegal game, conducted in other ways and not controlled, can be eliminated. We are all aware of the phenomena it creates, not only of the intensity of tax evasion, but also of what it involves through illegality. It is currently estimated that there are about a hundred and twenty thousand machines, where there is no control, and that is exactly what deprives significant revenues from the state. They are calculated through studies at 250,000-300,000 euros. It's also what I said, that it leaves the players vulnerable to the risks associated with all this illegal activity. It is a fact that there really is a need for a national strategy for the balanced development of gambling. The information provided by the Minister to the Standing Commission shows that this balanced development and regulation by the government, as well as the casino bill, which will soon be as mentioned in the consultation, is being attempted by the government, but also by the bill that is expected to come on the internet bet. So this effort on the part of the government to have a national strategy at three levels, as the Minister said yesterday, both in terms of tax evasion and regulation of the gambling market, but also in terms of addiction generated by these toys, I think it will soon be completed. It was said yesterday that we were going back from the positions we had and from the gambling point of view we are finally going to have a balance. With this bill and the others that are expected, there is a balance between the profits of the companies that win and the players anyway. We never refused. We still think today that the OPAP would be better placed to be state-run. However, we have inherited a contract which, on the basis of this, we should go, because the state, as we all know, has continued, even though many now forget that there is this follow-up. At the same time, with the bills that are expected, but also with this bill, changes are being proposed through certain provisions, which change in this bill, for example, certain features of the original provisions that were in the contract and do not affect - we would say - the size of this market. Colleagues and colleagues, it is true that the government's strategy to regulate the market would perhaps be more obvious, but also to regulate all this gambling, gambling and that now, as it comes - one follows - it is more difficult to understand this national strategy. I also think that the relocation of Parnitha's casino, which should be discussed in the casino bill, would also be more obvious. I would like to stress that in this bill expected for casinos, Minister, healthy competition between casinos, terms and conditions should be guaranteed to ensure the sustainability of casinos, but also to resolve the present inequality of taxation. I imagine there will be changes to the existing regime. At a meeting we had, you said that these changes are actually expected, that there is no other casinos paying 37% tax, another 35%, another 22%. But most serious, I think, is the safeguarding of jobs. As ensured by Parnitha casino workers after the relocation of the casino to Athens, we must explore the ways in which workers in other casinos and in particular in Loutraki, which will have the greatest impact on the relocation of Parnitha casino. Finally, I could not say - although I left it at the end, I consider it very important - that the provision on widow's pensions, which, for the first time, ensures the minimum pension amount of EUR 384 and the EUR 384 for children, provided that the death has completed twenty years of insurance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like two minutes, Mr President. In other words, the possibility - and it is very important to mention - of re-evaluating the pension during the preparation of the child for admission to the Higher Education Institutions is being given. Its sponsorship is also guaranteed during the course of the course as twenty-four years. Finally, because there is a lot of talk of social dividends, and indeed since yesterday's debate, there is a problem that the Prime Minister of the country announced it, I believe that 1.4 billion of our fellow citizens will benefit from, is very important and demonstrates the intention of this government that, despite the measures it takes, ultimately when it is given the opportunity to relieve parts or groups or categories of population of Greek society, it is trying to do so. So on that basis, he's sharing 1.4 billion. 720 million goes towards emergency aid. The figures are given in detail and in which categories of population they go. The 315 million are to be reimbursed for the illegal retention of the pensioners’ health contributions, which had been caused by the previous Governments and resulted, i.e. from 1 June 2012 to 30 June 2016. So along with the December pension, this amount will also be paid. Also, what is a big problem and we hear it from our fellow citizens is PPC 360 million to cover the cost of social coverage services.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u11	Mrs. Thelerite, put a perfect one!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u12	I shall conclude, Mr President. I think that these measures, such as social dividends, are important measures that can alleviate our fellow citizens who are affected by the crisis and are really saying that they are unable to respond to the various difficulties that everyday life is causing them today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. Mr. George Vlach from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] For the second day there is a critical bill for the Greek society, a bill that New Democracy has been dealing with with with it with responsibility and very much attention. While today this bill will end, our concern and the questions raised by our good colleague, our rapporteur, George Georgios, remain unanswered. That is why I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to repeat our own concerns very quickly: Let me remind you that we have asked, how does the need for regulations in the draft law also arise from what a thorough study has been carried out. Is there an approval by the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission for the arrangements contained in the bill? If there is still no approval, why not wait for the final decision of the Directorate-General for Competition of the European Commission and then enter to vote for this regulation? Also, why is your attitude quite different with regard to Law 4002/2011, which defined the institutional framework for the purchase of toys and the VLT'S Regulation? To these, ladies and gentlemen, so far we have not received any answers. That is why we insist on our negative position on this bill. I now come to the amendment to the transfer of the "Greek Parnitha Casino Anonymous Company", which was tabled at the last minute in committee. Today, with this amendment, Minister, you tell us that Parnitha Casino can move and where it will not go. But it would be better if you told us where you ended up going. It would be much simpler and much more understandable. Why really, through this amendment, which I too, as a Member of the Attica, knowing the region, creates huge problems, we feel that you are hiding something from us. You are not telling the whole truth, you are not answering the substance. That is why I will remind you here today exactly how this process of privatisation and the general investment in this casino took place. Let me remind you that with Law 3139/2003, when the casino was privatised, it took on some obligations. I don't want to read them. You can find them. Within these obligations was the upgrading of the hotel "MONT PARTES" and more generally the area, which was a tourist jewel for the region. When this was founded, I remember in the "Greek Opportunities" to present it as an area of tourist development, which called on the world to visit it. That's where the casino was working. Of these commitments, which were made at the time - 2003 - nothing has happened today. Today I have to show you pictures of desolating the area. After a metal building was built, which currently houses the casino, the hotel became a fork. Not only did it become a hop, but the company that has it, on 18-7-2017, asked for an autopsy exhibition of dangerous building. In particular, it states: "We object to Article 3 of the opinion, because macroscopically, based on the damage suffered by the building, seems to be demolished". It asks, in other words, from the Town of Acharnes, permission to demolition the building, which was undertaken in 2003 to invest. Still, she got permission in 2007. In 2010, there is a whole package of investors about what will happen. However, nothing has happened and today the building is being demolished. We really would like you, Minister, to tell us what the reason you're asking for the transfer of the casino is. Because where, if you want at the end, it's the least. What is it that's to blame? It's not going well - why is that, obviously, because it's at the top of Parnitha? So it's the height? Of course, when this choice of space was made over Constantine Karamanlis, it was because then Parnitha was countryside and at least one had to have a car to go there. Along with the other insurance valves, there was this also an insurance link, the fact that he couldn't get into the casino - let me say it - every weird person. So today, when you say it's not going well, today that you want to come down from the mountain and come to the plain, where is it going? And why would it go well? Why would the weird ones come in? Is that your spirit? Is that the approach you're making? We would therefore like, Minister, on behalf of the government, to clarify what exactly is the reason for moving, where it will go, what commitments the state undertakes, what commitments the property undertakes and, of course, what it wins - if something wins - the Greek State from this initiative. Because the municipality of Acharnon, a great, but with many municipality problems, will lose incomes it has budgeted for the coming years and on the basis of which it has been borrowed. And, of course, if this money he took from the casino goes away, you understand that the municipality will go bankrupt. So we say this: Some who have designed this data today are in front of a change of scenery. So why don't we know why this set is changing? Who's imposing this on us? Who's asking us? Why is it going on? What do we offer? What's the point? So, we're going to say, "A move was and what happened?" [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. That is why we in this position, your position, say 'no'. I, as a local MEP, knowing the function and the region I say to you twice as much as 'no', why the questions we have asked were not answered and why I feel that you are not telling the whole truth. You want to hide something. Some sort of feasibility you're serving. Something else you want to do. The weather, of course, will show all of this, as it shows everything. And once again he will show what the poet says, "Where are you young enough to say I would become someone else?" Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u17	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Vlao, because you didn't have the opportunity, or at least I didn't see you yesterday, I don't know if you've seen that we've filed a legislative improvement that raises the price that the company has to pay every year for five years from 1 million to 1.5 million. We did this because not you - obviously, but you too - but Mr Bourras and other Members from Attica said there would be a problem with this municipality. That is why we increased it from 1 million to 1.5 million over five years. I tell you very well how we tried to deal with this problem. Secondly, it is not somehow the work of the House to discuss exactly what a business has done or what it has not done. But I would like to present to you the ruling of the International Court of Arbitration precisely about what you said, what this company had to do. Good or bad, this company, when it went to arbitration for the things you said, has been vindicated. So that's foreseeable. Read the decision yourself. It was an arbitration in the International Court of Justice where the operation was justified. So what we do with it is foreseeable. You mentioned all the requests against the company. The company went to arbitration and well or badly won. I am also making the decision on the Minutes so that you too can see it. [[At this point, the Minister, Euklidis Tsakalotos, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, I would like to speak. Not many speakers. Show...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u20	That's not the point. The Rules of Procedure do not say, depending on the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u21	I didn't say it all, Minister. I did not tell you, for example, that in the period 2007-2009 - I as State Secretary - in the Ministry of Trade we took many employees from the casino, transferred and came to the People's Markets Agency. We were trying to make the investment easier. That was our intention. And this is today. It doesn't change anything. The question is whether the people who took over this investment feel that they have an obligation on Greek society. As regards the correction you have made, I would say that the money is welcome, but it is only for five years. The Municipality of Acharnon has much more problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr Vlacho. Mr Katsotis has the floor for two minutes from his position, and then Mr Saridis, the Parliamentary Representative of the Centroon Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Yesterday we discussed the bill and the amendments for a long time. We have clearly said our positions. Minister, you are accustomed to falsifying our positions and that is not a good thing. You can't convince that our position is something different than it is. We would ask you not to do this again, because yesterday you have done this, to say that we have said other things than what we mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Colleague, if I've misleaded something, I'll take it back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u25	We talked about it here yesterday. We interrupted you and said you were falsifying our positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u26	You can't tell me I'm falsifying. Say what I did, let me get this straight...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u27	Tell the Minister who falsified your positions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u28	We interrupted you yesterday when you falsified the JRC positions. Here are the Minutes and you can take them and see. But I have taken the floor to refer to the Prime Minister's letter on the social dividend. The government takes a step forward in the face of deception of the people. While voting for two - two Memorandums, extending the anti-government framework and preparing with the 2018 budget and the third assessment to cut off the remaining social and prosperous allowances, and launching the definitive abolition of the CSCE, and launching the abolition or deterioration of the conditions for the exercise of the right to strike, it comes and highlights the social dividend from overcompensation of the blemish surplus, created by the tax burden and cuts to the detriment of the workers and the populace. This is an issue that the workers also saw last year under the thirteenth pension - as you painted the social dividend - while the rest of the pensions were cut by 18% of the personal difference in pensions. We believe that the people cannot be deceived. They must not compromise with poverty and miserable life. They need to react, organize their struggle. They produce indestructible wealth and they need to fight to cover the losses they have had to meet today's needs against a policy that gives rise to poverty, which increases the poverty of the people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u29	Thank you. Mr Saridis, the Parliamentary Representative of the Union of Centres, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with a phrase: 'More than lasted by World War II'. This is one of the international press's comments on the duration of the Greek crisis. As far as the intensity of the crisis is concerned, if we rely on official evidence to measure it, then our country's global capital will achieve the greatest financial adjustment in history in the shortest recorded period, it leaves no room for doubt. So the tension of the Greek crisis has been and continues to be such that the logic of allowing us to name it violently and even to be precise about it. The causes of this violent crisis were suspected, but no one has told us in the last seven years. The reason why this crisis broke out over the junta period, we were told just two, three days ago in interviews by Mr. Diaselblum and Mr. Chakalotos. The nightmare leader for Greece Eurogroup told us that what happened was done to save European banks. Mr. Tsakalotos explained to us that he who is in fact responsible for the pillaging of the once middle class in Greece is the system that allows for tax evasion of the rich. Ladies and gentlemen, I have said so many times from this Step, I will not get tired of saying it and I will still insist today: all that can unite us, so that we can finally work together for the good of this place, is the assumption of the truth. We can use all the things that we all accept are true, as a foundation for understanding. There is a great need, you know, for this country, for us, the MPs, the political parties in this Chamber, because only in this way will we be able to agree on a hierarchy, a prioritisation of what is really necessary to do, so that we can do what our fellow citizens have sent us here, in other words to safeguard their interests and to improve the quality of their lives. We all fully accept that the duration of the Greek crisis is unnatural and irrational, that its tension and its vigour have no historical precedent and that its roots, its beginning and its causes did not start from our country. There is no doubt that these are the following conclusions and I say that to be clear. First, the memorials can't be torn apart, let's start over there. Secondly, the memorandum does not change from fewer Members to those who voted for it. Thirdly, it is true that the democracies of the world allow or tolerate tax havens accessible exclusively from the global elite of capital. In other words, the same people who are talking about reforms to break the tax evasion in our country have allowed them to escape some billions. The Germans have already sat down and calculated, a few days after the revelations, how much the Paradise Papers case could have cost them. That was the first reaction of the Germans to sit down and figure out before they even wondered who they were on the list before they were looking for wives, daughters, mothers. Before looking for how and when, they first sat down and obtained a documented assessment and calculated that Germany lost EUR 17 billion from the Paradise Papers tax evasion. You are aware of the same Germans who, in order to save their banks, recaptured their own banks three times, according to what Mr Diaselblum said. We are moving rapidly towards a fourth recapitalisation, according to what he has said - and he has expressed his fears - Mr Chakalotos. Let us note, of course, that we are talking about the same Germans who are wise enough to sit around the same table to work together for the common good of their own citizens, those who represent in their own Parliament. So these are some of the truths that if we choose to take them seriously, so that we can determine our position in today's vote in a gambling bill, we have to ask ourselves: How moral is it, Minister, to resort to the opening up of our society to gambling and, at the same time, to talk about exhausting the Greeks' burden-sharing capacity? How, on the one hand, we claim that the Greeks do not have to pay taxes, and on the other hand, we count as very important for the implementation of the budget the revenue we expect from the collection of these taxes from the money that our fellow citizens will lose every day in the mini casinos, which will operate with our vote in every neighbourhood of the country? Most neighborhoods in Greece are now poor neighborhoods and in these poor neighborhoods we all say people live who no longer have to pay other taxes and are desperate. That's what we're saying. Who through all of us here doesn't say these people are desperate? Who doesn't start with this assumption a location or a speech? In this despair, the trade of hope flourishes. How can we use the argument that the Greeks have no money to pay tax, but will they find money to pay "OPAP A: E." and by "OPAP S.A.", that is, the government will collect taxes? Ladies and gentlemen, we have turned everything - but - into tax-sparkling mechanisms, from PPC, municipalities, pharmacies and "fruits". We had to give these people ideally, stay up, fight, give them what they have as a stalemate. Instead of ideals, instead of trueness, instead of hope for the place, for the tomorrow of our children, for the future of our nation, we give them fruitfruits. Ladies and gentlemen, fruitful hopes, false ones. Let's admit it's not a positive sign for our country to rely on the money we get from gambling. In addition to the addiction in which we expose our fellow citizens, we are also opening up the way for the government budget to be dependent on gambling revenue. That's what we're doing. This in turn is capable of creating other kinds of links between the political system and those who earn money from gambling. On the other hand, we must also be honest, because the voice of the Central Association is always the voice of the truth. There is another truth so strong and so tough that it leads us, the Central Association, to the vote on this bill. Illegal gambling in our country has been shattered. What criminals happen in hidden undergrounds and secret apartments must stop. The Centres' Union is facing this bill first as an attempt to put an end to illegality and then as an extreme measure to safeguard the implementation of the budget, and that is why we will be voting in favour of it. I now come to the amendments, making a small position. We shall support all five ministerial amendments with our vote. Amendment No 1327 provides for an extension of the deadline for the voluntary disclosure of taxable material. This is a measure that we supported, because we considered it an important tool for bringing back to the normality of a large proportion of our fellow citizens. We therefore support this amendment. Amendment No 1328, entitled 'Provisions on the Greek Casino of Parnitha', has been sufficiently explained - I believe - by the Minister and therefore we will support it. Amendment No 1329 on widow's pensions solves part of the problem and not the problem. However, above all in order to show the way on which the state, namely the way in which injustices and the correction of absurdities, must continue to be restored, we will also be voting in favour of this. The same applies to Amendment No 1330, concerning the granting of a temporary pension to insured persons. I am ending with a positive comment on the amendment by the Ministry of Digital Policy, on 1341, which provides for the reduction from 20% to 5% of the rate of excise duty on advertising which canalarchs should pay from the April 1st, in other words, from April 2018. The government reduced a tax that it had not paid for anything in order to secure jobs. That was the argument. It seems like a lie to me, though. So I hope, on the next April's summit, that the Canadians will pay the decent wages to the four hundred workers, which was the Minister's argument for this amendment, otherwise we in the Central Association will assume that you have respected our vote on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, fifty students and students and four teachers from the 12th High School of Athens, as well as fifteen students and students and two teachers from the 19th Primary School of Nea Ionia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Demetrios Kammenos has the floor for a minute from his position to present an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, you are well aware of this. I have tabled an amendment concerning the sector of OPCW agencies, which is paid on the basis of the clearing house issued by the OPCW. All payments of the client shall be recorded directly in the computerised system of the ‘OPAP S.A.’. As we know, the agent does not issue any evidence of the money he receives, because the PPP does so directly, nor does it issue any credit proof of the money that is surely returned to the customer, but the system of games does not recognize. Consequently, all mistakes - and also the returns of money - which occur during the customer's playing, are not recognised by the OPCW game system, so all the burden of the insecurity is borne by the OPCW business. This creates two distortions. One is that we have a taxable income that has not been created. So an OPAP system isn't being sold all over, so the agent pays the rest to the OPAP. The OPCW does not know if all of it has been paid, but it confirms the entire document. So the agent pays out of his pocket what was not sold and at the same time the PPP gives him a commission for a sum that the agent has not collected. So he has a taxable income, which he has not even collected. These two distortions make an unfair tax. They must either cancel some of these transactions or be replicated. That is why I am making the proposal. This amendment provides businesses Professional Toys Procurement Agency "Organization for Football Games S.A." (‘OPAI S.A.’) the possibility of a discount for their sales made at up to 2% for values up to 750,000 euros a year as a provision for insecure claims, so as to cover this messengers and the injustice that concerns agents. The House, the rapporteurs and the special speakers have been informed. I think everyone understands it and they know it. I'm sure you know that too, Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u33	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u34	With regard to the last amendment, Mr Colleague, I would like to say that we will look at it again when we bring the Internet bet bill, not now. We'll look all the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u35	Good, good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u36	I would also like to say that we accept all the government amendments. We do not accept parliamentarians. Of course, the two of these are more in relation to the Ministry of Labour, so you're just waiting for them. It seems to me to be the first and third, if I'm not mistaken, in the order you've shared them to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u37	So do we. The Parliamentary Representative of the Independent Greeks Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. It is not the most pleasant word for "go" in general. The gambling sessions connect him with a decline. I would like to say that I have listened with great respect to much of what the representative of the JRC said, but with one difference. Reality is tough and we have to see it and not hide. I explain: At the moment we are talking about there are over three thousand illegal gambling lands in the country of all kinds, illegally. In fact, one - I don't want to say much - has around 100 thousand illegal machines. I'm saying that because no one wants that. In fact, I was impressed by something. I used to go to Amsterdam, Minister. At the most central point in Amsterdam, in Leidseplein, it's the casino. I went, like, a tourist. Inside the casino were only foreign. They were Arabs, Greeks and Turks. I didn't see almost any Dutch. I would simply like to say that a country that goes well, which is favoured, that all its finances are fine, does not resort to gambling, whether it is casinos or fruits, or anything. But we have not reached that level. The reality is tough, and we should see it. If this legislation, like those two which the Minister has already promised to do, reduce gambling in the country, I shall consider it a little success, and indeed a little success. Let's see in practice now some things that I think are self-evident. First of all, the way the OPAP was given, as it has been said, is a monument to how you can be rich with loan money without having any business. But I'm erasing this. You got it. I'll go down. The Minister was criticised for bringing in, say, the first part and leaving the other two. First of all, let us say that today, in the electronic way of life, everyone can play gambling from home with their computer - and I think I don't have to say it, everyone knows it - legal or illegal. This legislation was therefore necessary. He had to come. What's gone is over 1.3 billion euros. It's incredible money. But that's not the point. It is a success that I will consider whether gambling is reduced by these initiatives in our country. I want to stand - and I will not take much time, because I want to deal with something else - with two amendments which, in my opinion, should have been as far as possible. We all know the delays in pensions. We all know them. Shall we do self-criticism too? Let's get out of here. Is it "injection", yes or no, when your temporary pension is 80%? It is an amendment that we should all welcome, and I believe that we will all welcome it and vote on it. It is very important that the amendment which refers to 80% of those who submit electronics and others. I'm saying this because, when you're almost touching your normal pension, you're kind of comfortable, not that you're finally getting comfortable. The second amendment I would like to comment on is the one that refers to the addition to Article 12 on pensions for death. I would like to ask you here for something, Minister, because I sincerely tell you. I might be wrong. However, if the timescales are narrow, we should increase them. There are people who lose someone or are the children who live. I think there we should be a little more galantic. It's a positive step. I'm not talking about it. Let's see it, in other words, more human for these families. At least I put it completely humanely and uncritically. The other three amendments, too, are, in my view, correct. I'm leaving my subject. I have some time. However, I was amazed when I heard the parliamentary representative yesterday with my ears, the very decent Mr Teddy, to wonder what self-evident. "Change a culture," I heard. In fact, the Minister's reply was very diligent: 'Mr. Dendias is saying too much'. I didn't understand that. So, does a Prime Minister not have the right to a special gathering in northern Greece and indeed to a very sensitive piece, such as Thrace, to announce what he really does? No one triumphants about it. I will say this: I do not think that is anything. He takes it, like, a man to spend Christmas. But it is of great importance, even the two hundred, that some despise them. Oh, no. And one hundred and fifty euros, and the fact that they're not cutting you any more is very important. Why does a Prime Minister not have the right to announce it? The word "project" some have invented it. It's a pompous expression. What's "project"? He made a announcement about what he's going to do. First of all, everyone knows that if he doesn't do this right now, he's missing this thing. It happened last year. It could be lost. It has to be a little earlier. I think it's well known. It's a bad impression to me. Criticizing is not a bad thing, but it's tough statements. I agree that this year too, there can be an injustice. Okay. Is that it? This is, when almost three million people have to take advantage of even a little in those days. They're expecting it with anguish. And it's not an election period, look out. I don't like the reaction. In fact, I appeal to all parties - I imagine - to vote on this. I think the opposite would be wrong. I would also like to inform the House that at the moment, now that we are talking here, Paradise Papers are being discussed in the European Parliament. For those who don't know, Moscovisi is obliged to answer. A little late, of course, Europe is awakening - very late I would say - because it may be legal, having legalised how you can really hide the sources you have, your incomes and not be taxed or taxed too little or nothing. Where did this thing come from? How much further tolerance must the European Union show in this poor text? In addition to the strong names of the Trump Ministers - and Putin is involved, Canada is involved with the adviser of Trido, the Queen of England and goes on to say - I want to say here that even in Turkey, the Royal Opposition has asked, because the two children of Gildirim are confused, that Gildirim resign. Even in Turkey, you wouldn't call it an authentic democracy. Today, then, this story is being discussed and I am glad that, even though it is late, this issue comes to the surface in the European Parliament. I would like to end by appealing and say that, in matters of moral order, we all have to unite at some point. I believed and believe that in all the parties there are politicians who have a crystallized course. One can make a tough review of each other. That's what's necessary. It's a rule of democracy. However, issues of moral order have a unique sign, that is, it seems what is right and what is wrong. That is where I think we should mean if we really want to have a good message for Greek citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too. Mr. Spyridon Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when will we have the opportunity to speak in detail about the social dividend that the Prime Minister announced yesterday? I do not think one can seriously believe that the desired redistribution of wealth can be done with such methodologies. The best support for the most winter-driven social groups is the creation of essential conditions for the production of national wealth and, of course, the creation of solid jobs. The planned amounts could bring much better results if they did not follow the occasionally bankrupt method of allowances. The critical turning point that the economy is going through does not help fireworks, but the serious design and strong will to fulfil our intended obligations, in order to end the third assessment and to start building the next day, the long way out of the memoranda, which requires that we have proved that we can stand on our feet without the "papers" of support programmes. The first conclusion - to go to another topic - after the previous elections for the leadership of the new centre-left institution, is that citizens are still interested in reconstructing and reconstituting the site. They are interested in helping him to step on his feet and to play an essential role in our political system. The order is clear. The activation of many tens of thousands of citizens clearly shows that the requirement is to create the conditions for the space to gain the real power it has in society in order to launch the new party that will express the middle space with a strong 'private'. The serious and the big ones are coming, of course. Everything needs to be discussed from the outset, the framework, the procedures, the policy that this great new body will have and will be characterised, and that is where we all have a role. So the big project starts now. This project is not only about those who rushed to the polls yesterday or those who have been following it with interest, but also with suspicion. It is about the whole of society and the political system. The balancing role I have mentioned has two objectives: on the one hand, the lifting of the split conditions which still characterise society and, on the other, the creation of the terms and conditions of a political agreement which will enable us to leave the deadlocks today and build tomorrow with different prospects and confidence. We are of course aware that the issues at stake in the wider area of the Centre are too many. However, it is crucial that society's confidence be restored, so our self-awareness and maturity will play a decisive role in the next steps. We need to prove from now on whether we have learned from what we have been through and what we have left behind. Above all, we need to prove whether we have the political arsenal, ideas, proposals and individual policies that will encourage society to follow us. That's the big bet we have in front of us. Ladies and gentlemen, on the bill now, betting is something that exists in Western societies and their economies for many years now. It is a product that can easily be diverted and addicted, with all the other extremely negative social characteristics. It is not forbidden, however, and cannot be universally banned, such as smoking, drinking or unhealthy food cannot be banned. All that can and must be done by a favoured society is to set the terms and rules and is the only reason why the same free society cannot regard its citizens as having no fundamental sense of personal responsibility. From there on, the bill under discussion is certainly trying to set rules. We could disagree whether or not these rules are strict enough. We could disagree about whether he'd be able to put a class in the computer gambling landscape or not. However, we must understand that when we talk about VLTs or fruitfruits, as is well known, we are talking about a huge market, about an existing market, because, apart from the social consequences of users' lives, illegal gambling also entails great foregone profits for the Greek state. The ruthless status of illegal and highly customary gambling, which so far exists on the Greek market, through illegal mini casinos or online coffee with computers converted into fruits, needs to be regulated. The illegal slot market in Greece is estimated to exceed EUR 1 billion, with government revenues of EUR 300 million or EUR 400 million, a loss arising from the income tax of the illegal shopkeepers, forging social security contributions, as well as "black" work, both owners and employees in the mini casinos. In my opinion, two are the most crucial issues that should concern us in such a bill. Firstly, if there are insurance restrictions on the non-participation of minors and, secondly, if provision is made for the maximum per day of the bet. In this context, too, we need to look at the objections raised by the Commission from 25-8-2016 with the 225/2 decision of the EEPC, in our view, justified, because the Commission considers that existing and future players are not adequately protected once the EEPC has abolished the limitation of the two-tier measure between the stores, which all previous regulations have provided for. It also raises a question of lack of prediction, which would make the EUR 80 maximum per day maximum loss of each player's money. In addition, in the contested decision the SEP did not promote the player card with the compulsory registration of the VDV, increased the operating hours of the casino stores and a number of other measures that do not comply with European standards on e- betting. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close by reminding you that various provisions and regulations are currently coming, first of all, in the 1990s, when all the governments that have passed - either of the New Democracy or of the PASOK - have not been able to deal with and regulate by bringing about, by legislating these many and different things that we are now called upon by this bill to deal with. There are issues relating to the transfer of Parnitha casino, the creation of new casinos, the legalisation of type II stores, and the dissemination of VLT machines to OSP agencies. However, nothing is in itself and a Priori right or wrong. We all have to deal with them in realism, within a specific economic and social context, and, of course, put the rules that preserve the public interest and protect society. For example, it is not possible for there to still be a discussion of decades of casinos in Crete or Mykonos, while in these islands there are areas of such advanced tourism that they could in any case support this, without harming local society, in terms of terms, conditions, measures, which, of course, throughout the world or throughout Europe - which are of interest to us - have been taken but, on the contrary, by increasing the product of these regions and the national economy. That's always the point. In any case, a re-examination - since we are now dealing with issues that have been unregulated for at least twenty years - about how we manage various issues over time would benefit us in order to draw the relevant conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, too. Mr Denkias, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I shall begin with the legislation, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. I think you have already been told by my fellow Members and by the diligent rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Georgioda, that this regulation, in our view, is, first of all, a regulation that is completely fragmentary. We have told you - and, I think, you have accepted it and you have welcomed it - that there should also be a wider regulation on casinos and electronic gambling. I heard you said yesterday to Mr Georganta that this would be the case today. I imagine you said so with the thought that the debate would have ended last night and therefore we would not have had to tell you this morning where this arrangement is. In any case, we will be waiting by the end of the week. We don't want to call you inconsistent only for that. With this piece of legislation, it is clear that you are making a huge ruse in the OPCW, on the one hand, by increasing machines per shop and, on the other, by extending the contract for eight years. This is a questioning question for us, as is the question of where you're taking the casinoing of the Greek province. In other words, how do you not understand in a clear way the sociological framework in which this arrangement moves and which creates, by creating in the Greek province, but also in the districts of the capital of the country, a series of small casinos, with all the consequences that this will have? I would be prepared, Minister, to accept your view, if, in any case, this was a permanent, ideologically defined and consistent view. But I went to the trouble to look at what you were saying, for example, not in the extreme past, but in 2011, through your rapporteur at the time, Mr Papadioulis, in the debate on nr.4002/2011. You then accused the legislature of leading to the stoning of Greek society and included in the minutes the commitment of your party to a shrinking of the OPAP and to the staggering of the OPAP. How we have come from shrinking and staggering in prolonging and stoning, that is something you should explain to the national Parliament, to your party, to society. Because your awkward explanations of this piece of legislation, along with your views on competition between toys and not within toys, etc., I must tell you that they are not in line with what you were saying, they are not in any way in line with what you have expressed and they are in no way in line with what the Greek society believes in this matter. Greek society does not want to smoke and even at times of crisis. It is not reasonable to subdue everything to the logic of any financial benefit, even when it is combined here with the purely private benefit. I will come to a second point which concerns us, and this is the Prime Minister's document yesterday, which, in my view, and in the view of the New Democracy, is a diversion from parliamentary order. I think that the Minister actually agreed yesterday with me in this sense: I was noblely accused of a small exaggeration, even as an implied suggestion, later he said that it might be a great exaggeration of what I said. But when we talk about exaggeration, what do we mean? We mean growth of a real, real object. That is, if it is a big diversion or a small diversion to discuss, but when the response to the diversion is excessive, then I imagine that that means obviously that the Minister agrees that there is a diversion. And there's a diversion, it's not the issue of discussion. You know, parliamentary democracy is not some articles in a paper called the country's Constitution, which is simply encyclopedics taught in university legal schools. It's a way of operating and perception of the culture. As a result, when Parliament meets on a matter concerning the Ministry of Finance, it is present and recommends that the relevant Minister, handler of the issues, that the Prime Minister of Greece should appear between flags before the Greek people and begin to analyse benefits, does not honor Greece. It does not honour the country because it does not even honour the course that we, I think, have most of the joint agreements, that we are trying to belong to a European framework and a European concept. Can you imagine another Prime Minister of any other European country doing the same thing? Anybody, any country, in any crisis, in front of flags, with podium, announcing benefits. And what benefits? Benefits from overtaxation, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Tsipras did not distribute inherited property of SYRIZA and ANEL. We donated no donation to SYRIZA and ANEL from someone who was grateful for the offer of SYRIZA and ANEL in the country. We distribute the money, which the Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece previously described as a "blooded surplus" and "product of the confiscation of the Greek taxpayer". It's true. It is an unacceptable surplus and the result of the Greek taxpayer's confiscation. Of course, I note this imperial logic with which we distribute the imperium. You know, Rome had two funds: the imperium, which was the public fund, and the fiscus, which was Caesar's private fund. However, during the periods of Roman decline the emperor was involved in the fiscus, his fund, and we distributed it as he wanted, usually to praetorians and others, to buy the Roman citizens. That is what we see, then, happening here too, to buy out citizens and even to EUR 700 million. It is not EUR 1.4 billion, as HUNGY says, which I have read previously with the noble lending of my dear colleague. It is not EUR 1.4 billion, because about EUR 360 million will go to PPC to survive in the terrible situation it is in, and EUR 414 million is due, because they have been illegally taken. So what the Prime Minister did for a proclamation - take note - to the Greek people, as if a foreign force had attacked us, was to distribute 700m euros as a favor, as a political favour. And I honestly tell you - I want to be raw, Minister - that it is not your money, so that the Prime Minister may have it as a Santa Claus. They're not yours. You can't put it that way. It's embarrassing what's going on. In any case, if it is your own troika's miscalculation, this surplus has emerged, for the reasons that you explained in the committee the other day in the debate on the preliminary draft budget - and we will have the opportunity to discuss it again in the budget debate - the least you have to do is sit down and discuss with the opposition parties how to manage this thing. You cannot put it in this obvious arrogance: "It is ours, we start and share where we want, as we want." They're not yours. They're not yours at all. This is unjustified enrichment of the public in the public interest. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the interest of the Greek public is not the same as in the public interest. There's a huge difference and a huge confusion. Here, therefore, a surplus is distributed to the detriment of the public interest, which has unlawfully, unjustly and unconstitutionally acquired the public. How are these things? And again, the Prime Minister is portraying Santa Claus and, obviously, within this perception, the troika represents the three magicians. Because the Minister of Finance named the Troika as responsible for creating this excessive surplus, because of its excessive demands, which, of course, the Greek Government has bowed to. What are the motives? Because, obviously, I don't have the illusion that I'm telling you something new here. They're familiar with this. They're obviously familiar. What were the motives for the Prime Minister's energy? Prime Minister's action is mobilised by populism and communism and a logic of purchasing votes, which he felt - to be honest - in Greek things. This isn't the first time we've seen her. This time we are seeing it at a very advanced level and indeed from a party which has proclaimed and taken the vote of Greek society in the name of the abolition of all of this. And all that that he promised to abolish - and he said he would abolish - is doing it to the worst and most. Anyway, what's the motive? I imagine two things could be yesterday's sudden motive - because no one knew about it an hour ago - the presence of the Prime Minister before the cameras between the flags. Two things could be: Or the history of the Central Left, in order not to allow a political pole, which claims a survival space alongside a part that SYRIZA wishes to hold politically or else, the enormous difficulties that are experienced in the House in depositing documents rather than by the New Democracy, Mr. Panos Kammenos's government partner. Documents unprecedented! We'll see what happens. This is not the debate today on this matter. But it is clear that the Prime Minister of the country is also in an extremely difficult position. A document submitted yesterday to the National Representation by another party and informed by the New Democracy on this statement shows things that, by a large majority, are not merely curious, but are unprecedented. It is good to know if you do not know them, and take a position directly, because one thing is certain, that the continuation of the whistle in no way is something that can be accepted at this juncture. Mr President, I would like to ask you for two-three minutes. I don't usually do it. But we have tabled an amendment from the New Democracy and I would like to explain it. I'll be a short-sighted man. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of discussion in the last few days about the laws - it is not a Friday. Here I must say, in fact, that we are partly wronged by Professor Paraskevi, who at least had the courage to say that his law on releases - not the other law on which the authorisation was granted - must stop. This law is no longer a Paradise Act, it is a Contonis Act, because it was again extended to Article 43 of Law 4489/2017 until August 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u43	Modified.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u44	Modified. In other words, the story continues: 'Everyone outside', to be informed. It's not enough for the two and a half thousand barpinites to make more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u45	Is that what the amendments say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u46	That's how we read it. You can read it as you wish. But you must explain, Mr Colleague, to the parents and relatives of the victims of these criminals, the instruments you have voted on. I'm glad you insisted. The courage of the opinion is an important thing, however, if it is combined with the acceptance of responsibility, particularly in the face of the victims. I am pleased that you accept completely and take the political responsibility for these disgraceful legislation, the legislation of shame, because these are shameful legislations. Bring me such a piece of legislation with these parameters. Mr. Paradoxopoulos was right when he said there were release laws. That's true. It's like he says. The question is with which quality parameters and having committed what crimes someone is allowed to get out. Of course, the imperfections of the Greek penitentiary system have in some cases imposed - something that is not right at all - on the vote of such legislation, but on a reasonable basis, in a context that did not create a risk to society. What happened here with the SYRIZA ANEL Government, namely the constant existence of legislation, with which every barbecue actually after a short stay in prison could go out and be forensic again, is absolutely unprecedented. In part it explains the enormous increase in crime, which the only one in this Chamber who does not know it, is the Prime Minister of the country and who read to Mr Mitsotakis the day before yesterday, which is absolutely false. That's right backwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u47	Did he give false evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u48	He talked about a 65% reduction and was an increase of 70% and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u49	So the Greek police are giving false evidence?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u50	I don't know what the police gave. I heard what the Prime Minister read. So I'm telling you, and it's written in the Minutes - if you want to hear it a second time, let me tell you a second time, it doesn't suit you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u51	No, no, Mr. Teddy. Your time is over, otherwise you could repeat it for the fifteenth time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u52	...that's false the evidence the Prime Minister read. She's completely false and she's in reverse.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u53	Who says that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u54	I'm telling you again. Whatever he said, the return is true. Where he talked about a 60% reduction and something, it's an increase of 70% and something. Where he talked about a 20% reduction and something, it's a 20% increase and something. It's the backwards. It is unprecedented - we have never seen this before - Prime Minister coming to the House reading the backwards of what is happening. It's unprecedented!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Dendia, your time is over, i.e. the extension of time is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u56	I shall conclude, Mr President. I once abused your kindness. The second provision we tabled in the amendment concerns the issue of licences. You will read the amendment. We want to return to the former regime, the 2009 regime, together with the creation of Type III prisons, which is a clear position of Mr.Mitsotakis. We do not have the illusion that you will accept the amendment. But we know very well that this is how you have to find yourself before your political and social responsibilities. Let's vote whatever you want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u58	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u59	Mr Teddy, I would like to talk about whether I admitted that there is a diversion of the constitution, because I said that you were a little over-examination. I'm not going to talk about the other little things, because I'm sure my colleague, Mr. Maddash, will. But I'll talk to you about the structure of humor. If Mr. Mandas invites me to Zagorohoria in winter for two days to rest and has eighteen degrees to go to a café and I tell him " nice hot girl you have here!", it is not reasonable and reasonable answer from Mr. Manta that "you admit she has hot, but it is not nice the hot one". So is the structure of humor: When we say it's a little overreacting, we all understand that you were overreacting and without, indeed, believing that a statement by the Prime Minister creates a problem for the culture. It was too much exaggeration. Since you didn't understand the sense of humor, I wanted to explain the structure of humor. The Prime Minister, along with the government, have a plan. What the Prime Minister did yesterday didn't do at that time. He had it announced. When you guys were talking about sharing in March the dividend, our plan has been ours ever since. We announced it, we didn't surprise anyone, we said it would go to those who really need it, not only to the completely poor, but four times to those who take the CRL. We didn't know the amount, and that's why we waited. Now that the amount has been agreed with the institutions, as promised, we share it. We weren't surprised, we didn't say it was our money. The entire Greek people knew this was the strategy and Alexis Tsipras did it very well and announced it yesterday. There was no irregularity, no institutional and no policy. It was within our plan that we've been evolving and announced for a very long time, and that's why we're going to be judged. As you said, it is clear that we will not accept the amendment. We've discussed these things many times. We are, at least on this subject, Dostoyevski's fans that 'a country's culture depends on how it treats the prisoners' and that is our big difference. But let me say something about what you said about Mr Mitsotakis and finish with it. Look at the polls. Look at how it can stand and how the Golden Dawn doesn't fall. The effort of yours and Mr.Mitsotakis to have a far-right agenda on the issues of prisoners and migrants will not come to you and do great damage not only to your party but also to Greek society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Panayotopoulos, you have the floor for three minutes. You can speak from your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u61	In particular, in view of the nomination of the previous Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say some explaining things about the amendment we have tabled. With this amendment we are trying to make a contribution to the extremely problematic, in our view - not just our own, of course - situation in terms of public security. This situation, as we appreciate, has prevailed through the operation of Law.4322/2015 and Law.4489/2017, entitled - both - "Sixteen measures for the decongestion of detention stores", known as the First Paradise Act, and as our Parliamentary Representative, Kontonis Law, quite rightly said, which amended the Act of Friday, the latter. In particular, we introduce a special provision for the reintroduction of the provisions of Law 4274/2014 in respect of type C bookings, which were abolished by the Act of Friday. In other words, we are proposing the reintroduction of the operation of the highest security prisons, where there will be a threat to public security of barbecue and condemned terrorists, without the right to permit, as provided for in the 2014 Act, which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has abolished since April 2015. The recent authorisation of the executive and the main gun, I would say, of 17 November, demonstrated the special problem status of allowing prisoners in our penitentiary system. So because the draft of the new Penal Code has already been put into consultation with the Ministry of Justice, because it has already been a day before, the Minister of Justice has asked us what we are proposing and what we want to do on all these issues, but above all, because it is a common sense in society - which is not the same - I would say, anything else, with the views of the members of the 'Rubicon' who honour Kufontina - but it is also a feeling to the experts on anti-crime policy that the system of criminal repression of the country is more or less in collapse, threatening the country's order-guarantee system, for all these reasons we are tabling our amendment, we are making a public account of our opinion and we are opening up the debate that will follow in the next few days, on the problems and corrections imposed in our penitentiary system. The suppression of criminal elements - and I am closing down, Mr President - is neither a tool to curb the freedom of the individual, nor a lever to limit human rights, nor, of course, a right to come to Mr Tsakalotos - and a much more extreme right policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u62	Liberal, you don't call her.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u63	It's backing up...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u64	Time's up, Mr. Panayotopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u65	Look, it strengthens the sense of security of the average normal and simple citizen and is a means of strengthening normality, which is supposed to...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u66	You're clear. Ladies and gentlemen, until Mr. Loverdos comes to Stepma, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty students and students and two teachers attending from the 11th High Aharnons Second Department. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, I had decided not to speak because Mrs Kefalidou had been fully expressed, she had covered the matter, and because I say many times that in parliamentary dialogue, not talking is perhaps a profit. I would say that we have a minister who is part of a political scheme which Mrs Kefalidou said very well, the privatization of the OPAP, the OPAP, the games in which the world participates, the denounced them in the way they were denounced, and now they are the gamblers of gambling, they regulate it, they enhance it. They don't sharpen up, without getting dust up, that is, they get dust up, because people watching your changes, they see your transformations, they see how you change the face, taking off the plastic mask from your face, it counts you. They do not count you, who believed and believe that the Minister of Finance should care about public finances and private economy, which understood in 2014 that we are leaving the long term of the crisis. They believed you, those to whom you said there was another way. So your great obvine transformations have been perceived to the vast political public, to the people, but also to the small ones in your individual transformations, and they are understood and do not change political attitude - I repeat - they are sharpened. Rise dust and too much dust. Why would I say that? It's self-evident. I wouldn't talk. But yesterday we had two interventions in the Chamber by the Minister and one by the Prime Minister with his 'profession' in introductory terms, because the terms have now lost their meaning. "Profession" okay what everyone wants. Yesterday, Mr Tsakalots was embroiled by global social democracy, its responsibility for avoiding large capital from participating in the common economy, in the common economies of the States and in the wider common economy through the 'Paradise Papers' and related methods, and especially the oldest President Clinton and other leaders of European social democracy. I would like to make an intervention in this regard. Listen. My first experience of how the powers get out of the guarantees that the Member States are establishing, has not arisen from the economy but from the area of rights. That is where I found - before I became a politician - that countries lay down, in particular, political and individual rights. Socialism is another particular category, depending on the financial capacity of the states. But there, when the protection of a right or a system of rights is completed, powers always create new violations against which citizens and legal classes are unprotected. So it's a continuous road struggle, to prevent new violations and to equip your jurisprudence and political systems. The same has happened in the economy, with any powers in the states mainly of the western hemisphere of the world, where we are looking more at the issues of the development of legal, economic and political culture. Listen, participation in the common economy, the attempt to get away from it, and the anxiety of the states and associations to prevent these situations, is an international, continuous economic situation, is a given one. I was the first reading on this subject by a communicator from Constantine Tsukalas. You cannot be blamed for specific political parties or ideologies. You must see the overall weaknesses of the states, the overall weaknesses of the European Union, the overall weaknesses of the Americans themselves. Who first declared the war and lost it? President Barack Obama. Have we forgotten about this? It's a recent memory. So these kinds of escapes from those who want to avoid participating in the common economy are a firm situation. You are now also charged with it, because a euro area country is governed by you as SYRIZANEL. Here the struggles are common, whoever governs, to find solutions. I do not think, despite the fact that you are here, that the evidence provided by your colleagues to the Ministry of Finance for the purpose of combating smuggling, for example, is satisfying you. It is not 'Paradise Papers', it is another form of non-participation in the common economy, but it is also a specific illegality - this in particular - in which you have not done so.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u68	It's not always illegal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u69	It's not always illegal. It could be illegal, too. That's right. As far as this generalisation that you made yesterday is concerned, I would like to contribute this argument. We now go to the other issue, on the subject arising from the intervention of the Prime Minister, which you have supported here today, too. We also hear the Prime Minister and you talk many times, using the phrases 'political elites' and 'rich', to denounce the so-called 'ethical scandals' - you do it to differentiate them from the sense of illegality -, the 'ethical scandals' at the expense of the undignified who you will protect them. I want to highlight the obvious. We are towards the end of 2017, that is, the third year you are ruling and that you do not address a square with angered, in which you coexist with the Golden Dawn. You met in other corners of the square.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u70	Come on, Mr. Loverdos!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA was like this. We were here and you were across the street. In another corner, the Golden Dawn, in another corner you, in another corner, Mr. Kammenos. They're familiar with this. We've lived through them. This is the Greek Parliament. It is good for us, too, to remind ourselves of these self-evident things, but also for you to remember them and not to invoke them again, because anyone who wants to defend the interests of the weaker, protects these weaker ones. We had the opportunity a few days ago here to evaluate the evidence provided by ELSTAT, which for the first time since 2010 has increased indirect taxes proportionally more than the direct ones. First manifestation of the phenomenon in 2017 and because indirect taxes are not proportionate, they affect weaker ones more. That's childish. That's well known. It's like that. In your days, ELSTAT has seen this increase since 2010 for the first time in this relationship. You're making a reference to Arthur Pigus. The right thing is Piggos, not Piggos. Unless I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u72	It's the accent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u73	So, from what I know, in the theory of prosperity, Pigkos has never claimed "I will increase the taxation of evil - that is what people consume coffee, drink - I will increasingly tax it and increase smuggling". He didn't say that. He obviously had no view of Greece, had no regard for Crete and Chania or the events of the last few times. He didn't know that. Okay, we agree. Let's go down. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] I beg your pardon very much, but what you have done in this area comes out of your way. What is happening with the smuggling of cigarettes has no precedent in the country, which has not been done by previous governments in this area, to say things by their name. But that's where it got worse. As everyone knows, this smuggling is the worst for public finances than even for oil smuggling. We therefore have three years of mastery and repetitive tax policy. In this case, the indirect taxes have a lead that does not allow constraints to fight for the sick. A total of three measures of the order of 1.4 billion were announced yesterday by the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister told him that one of these 720 million stays as a dividend. The rest is the application of judicial decisions and assistance to PPC. The citizen has 720 million. As I said yesterday, you have the opportunity with tax policy, which you are exercising on fair and unjust, the destruction of the middle classes. You're saying you're pushing them. You're talking to a lawyer, a doctor, a mechanic, a farmer, to tell you? Are you stealing him or stealing him? Because it is not possible for a man to calculate, with a reasonable income of EUR 30,000 or EUR 40,000, that you are his partner and you need to get the 20,000. You'll tell him "I'm taking the 20,000, I'm pushing you, but what am I supposed to do?" It is a strategy against the middle classes that you have, you have confessed and we will discuss when the budget comes. But are you helping the poorest? It's what I said yesterday. "Destroy your house and give you a tent to go and stay." You take his NSA and give him a single year of 250 euros to some of them. Is this a policy that you would characterize as social or a political trick for drawing votes? It's obviously the second one, and you know it well. I'll close with a reference to a wider political issue. Our assessment - I told you yesterday with a phrase - is that the truth is one. We say it's alpha, you say it's beta. His truth, the people will tell her in the poll. There you will find your final account. Until then, you have indications. The readings are not the happy faces that Mr. Tsipras sees on the streets, they are not the approval of the people in your policies, they are not the polls you call on us or other parties to read, in alpha or beta way. The first clear indication was on Sunday with impeccable objective elections in the field of the Centre and the Central left, where mass vote, mass participation was a mass participation in the establishment of a new body that is opposing you, a mass body expressing citizens against you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We, this very clear mandate of Representation, transferring to the Greek Parliament. We don't prejudge you. We do not practice any other form except verbal violence against you. We do not do like you did, but we are very clear and specific that it is time for our own voters, the people who believe in us to express themselves politically. There is no more perfect, that is, more comprehensive and more complete form of political expression than the vote. The vote on the Central Left polls on Sunday was a vote to set up a new party against you. That's the preamble, it's the beginning. The follow-up will come in the next few months and in the final call for election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u74	Would you excuse me, Mr President, for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u75	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u76	I want a minute, Mr President, I do not want any more. I want to make two comments on Mr. Loverdos' speech. Firstly, I would like to thank him for saying that the dividend will be EUR 200. When this dividend comes, people will see that it's much more. It'll be a pleasant surprise. You keep putting the bar down, and as I have said in another case, it helps us. But let me say something about social democracy, which you have analysed, that these things are coming, leaving, it is a constant struggle. I don't see it that way. I see a structural uncontinuation after 1980. I see a social democracy before 1980, which was actively involved in the reduction of inequalities after World War II - a huge reduction in inequality - around 1970-74 and I see a structural discontinuity after 1974, first with the neoliberal Reagan - Thatcher in the 1980s, which is beginning to increase inequality. It continues in the 1990s and beyond what I said and mentioned yesterday, the leaders in the Europe of social democracy and the democrats who embraced the financial markets and come to inequality. In other words, the whole good period of social democracy has disappeared and we have now reached inequality in the 2020s. I say this because you said it was a good effort to rebuild this space. I'll tell you one as to whether it's reconstructed or not. You need to make a decision. In the 1990s, Blair, Schrader, Clinton, decided that neoliberalism is here forever, so we somehow have to make our adjustments. Since it's from now on, we have to take this data as data. I say to you that you have no future, as is seen in all the elections of the social democrats who have been with the Right, if you continue to think that neoliberalism is a dead end. That's the criticism I'm making. I criticise you not that you are social democrats, but that you are not quite social democrats. If you continue to believe, as Blair and Simitis thought, that neoliberalism is here forever, you will have constant failures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u77	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u78	Mr Loverdo, do not open up the debate now on social democracy and liberalism. We have a bill. Don't deviate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u79	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u80	I'll give you the floor. Minister, I would ask you, when you take the floor for the closure of the sitting on the bill, to make sure that you accept - it is the formal procedure - for Mr Pappa's amendment. He himself supported it, just to say it. This was left to me by the previous President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u81	I am simply telling you that I have said all governmental and not parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u82	Okay, good. We're staying in this. Thank you very much. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u83	When I listened to you, I was thinking of a phrase by Dionysius Roman: "Fanton lodo", at the bottom of the sea, who is interrogating his actions with his words. You are such a characteristic case as a party as a whole, SYRIZANEL. Two specific topics you have chosen to raise, and thank you. I said 250 euros, because I divided the amount with the citizens you say. It's a division. It's the numbers you give when you determine what that is. We voted for it last year and we will support it this year, but you cannot say 1,4 billion and that is 720 million. Stay in what the Opposition tells you and answer that. You cannot add as a dividend the application of judicial decisions or your PPC policy. This is crazy! Social democracy has always had, especially in the mature period of post-war Europe, a double cross to carry: the cross of the social state and the effectiveness of the functioning of the states. He had both. This double crusade theme was for a period of time the occasion of her euphoria and when things had been difficult for a time of crisis that passed. The previous ones of us managed the righteous of the people in a way that was very generous. They have become the world theory of the functioning of the urban state, which the rest have been accepted. However, the period of crisis has caused additional difficulties to this double cross that we were carrying. There, powers like yours didn't help. We were like an arsivist trying to raise two hundred pounds and the other one hits his back or the kick on his knees. That's what you did! And now you're coming to teach us? So we have learned too much. There's no misfortune that we haven't been through. We've learned from both our mistakes and we're here. The people of every month that passes increase our power. You have the example of Sunday. I am speaking on the basis of Sunday's vote and not on the basis of general affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u84	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Mandas, has the floor. Then the seconds of the rapporteurs and special speakers will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also had the hope that I might be a little more useful in this bill and offer some of my knowledge of addiction. However, I do not think you will allow me to say a few things about the extent to which I would like to say, as various issues have arisen in this debate that is very interesting, I would say, overall. In fact, this debate was initiated by the committees and the debate began to be interesting when the Minister spoke of this herbal forty-fives that passes through the bar that the opposition has put so low. We started from there, and interest continued, because various issues have evolved within these days. So we arrived on yesterday's and the Prime Minister's dictionary in relation to the social dividend. There the eggs and passovers were lost, as we say in my village. I'd like to be a little more specific. It's unbelievable what's going on. I read and reread yesterday's position of Mr. Dendia, Mr. Loverdus, Mr. Georgiades and others. Today these claims continue to be repeated. What is the reaction of counter-population - that is, the object of a study to think about it - in a stimulus created by the announcement, the announcement of the social dividend? It's really unbelievable. In other words, I did not expect that today, for the second time, Mr Denkias would try to substantiate his claim that this is a diversion, that this is not done in states like the one in our country, which have presided over Parliamentary Republic, and that little or no doubt - yesterday's speech was a diversion. But are these serious arguments? Let me get this straight. Is that really a serious argument? I say this for Mr Tindemans, with whom we have been co-existent many times as Parliamentary representatives. I really didn't expect that, and she's left me speechless. I undertake to study again what he said and to look for exactly where this terrible diversion lies. However, the essence of what the Qualifying Opposition has not told us - because from the rest of the Opposition we have heard a position - is whether it will finally vote for the social dividend. What's he gonna do exactly? That's not what he told us. He kept us secretly what will happen in the next few days when he comes to Parliament and we will discuss all the details of this matter. One more thing has been said, which I would like to answer. All right, Mr. Loverdos is in the next few days of the triumphant return, in his opinion, of the Central Left.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u86	PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u87	Okay, I'm saying it more broadly, so I can get to what I want to say. At this point I would like to take a parable and say that I do not at all underestimate the participation of thousands of people in a process which, in my eyes, as a leftist, seems a little problematic, namely the election of the Chief without just knowing the programme, the content, what party that will be, etc. This is the ruler Mr. Dendias and the emperor. That's it. An emperor is going to get there that way. In any case, it's a matter. We'll judge it. So, drunken by this huge victory Mr. Loverdos said that eventually everything will be judged in the polls and that every day that passes, this current is growing, with which we have frightened, say, and that it is almost before his steps to regain the rule of the country. Like this. I want to answer the other one because it sounds and it's rehearsing. What is this social dividend, which is obviously neither SYRIZA's money, nor any SYRIZA's money, nor any PASOK, nor any New Democracy's money? Clearly! What is it? Is it the result of overtax? Is the result of tearing down the house and now we're giving a tent to go and sit down? Is that it? So to be serious, in this Chamber, I would like to repeat a few things so that colleagues know about them. I would like to repeat that the Prime Minister yesterday did not say in general terms about over-performance, something that Mr Georgiadis has criticised him for. He said that in budgetary measures we have reached a greater coverage of the primary surplus, and from 1.75% we reached about 3% and something. What's that? Well, I can explain. In what we agree with the institutions are the so-called parametric and non-measurable measures. The non-measurable, i.e. those resulting from the fight against tax evasion, do not take into account the calculation of the primary surpluses. One is that. The second is that there is this trend, which we have often repeated in this House, to underestimate, especially the International Monetary Fund, the return of whatever measures we take. It calculates, like, a hundred. We say we'll catch, for example, a hundred and fifty. We finally get a hundred maybe seventy. Usually the International Monetary Fund in these estimates falls out, devalues, that is, the return of these measures. I shall repeat two specific examples. This possibility is mainly given to us by the performance of these non-tariff measures, which are a part of combating tax evasion. And here we don't say things in general and in vain. The Minister reiterated two elements in the committees. What are these? The first is voluntary disclosure, which brought to the funds more than EUR 450 million. The second is over-performance - because here is the over-performance - in relation to the revenues of the EBRD, which came mainly from the growth of employment. These two together make 1 billion euros. That's all. To say some other things to stop tax evasion. Really, who exactly did the cross-checking of bank accounts and tax declarations? When did this happen? Who did this? Because now, the junction, which can be held on the side of the state, can be done very quickly and catch a lot more in a much shorter time when we wanted two and three months to make a crossroad. Now, in very short time, we can cross-check bank accounts and tax declarations and therefore identify tax evasion. In fact, who put plastic money into Greek reality? How we got through there...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u88	Let me finish my thoughts. If you want, you have the ability to talk later and say what you think. How, through and through tax-free building, we brought to the funds, through the automatic refund of VAT, especially in some havoc islands, some 160%, 180%? Who did this, huh? Who boosted the mechanism by taking suitable cars to stop the smuggling at the border? And I mean the x-ray trucks. Already one runs and another four enters. Who put the electronic platform to check apartment rental via airbnb? Who did all this? Wasn't that the government, which took concrete measures and had a very specific return on the fight against tax evasion? We are not saying that we did everything or that we currently have the full performance. However, we have taken very specific steps, and we have very specific results. Previously, there was the other argument that we are not returning the time-limits. We have reiterated that this is calculated within the final result of the primary surplus, but some do not mean to understand it. So all this is a much better performance on the budgetary side, which allows the Greek Government to give this social dividend. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two more minutes, if I may, Mr President. So I say again, that rather flies stinged some, when for the second year they heard a social dividend with real overrun of the primary surplus rather than the dividend they gave in 2014 - not to say how and where - with borrowers and without having a higher return on the primary surplus, which they never caught, of course. I'm going down for the bill. I will not repeat many things that have been said. However, in the criticism of the restrictions and the Rules of Procedure, I would like to reiterate that there are some things to which we need to consult, to have a common place. When you restrict the signs and machines, when you make two moves - you reduce the machines from thirty-five thousand to twenty-five thousand and you limit the points, from more than a thousand, to five hundred - that is a very specific measure. In international literature, availability is a crucial issue, in relation to the vulnerability of some people to enter an addiction process, if you like. So one, that's it. Secondly, players must be over twenty years old. This is a specific restriction. They must necessarily use a player card after identification. Second limit. Third limit. They must specify self-determination limits per day and per period. Fourth restriction. Additional containment option with the day stop. Another possibility with monthly and annual limits. There are, therefore, specific questions of limitation, which I think can work together with the Rules of Procedure, which the independent authority is making. All of this together, they can function on a market, which most of the Parliament's wings point out is that regulation is needed. Let me say one last thing in relation to the issue of addiction. The issue of addiction, ladies and gentlemen, is a multifactorial issue. Multifactoral issue. There was, there is, and there will be in humanity. Look wherever you want and any policies you want and you'll see that. Whether it is limited and how it is limited precisely and what measures we are taking to prevent, in particular, addiction to adolescents, that is something we can really talk about. However, the banning vertical policies, all they have done - and this is what the international literature proves - are to increase the illegal gambling or the illegal use of alcohol or the illegal use of substances, etc. That is what international literature says, and I think it is worth reading this literature properly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u89	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u90	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. We have work to do here. Indeed, we have work to do here. And in school prevention programs, which can also be done in the treatment of people entering this loop, let me say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr. Mada. We continue with the seconds of the rapporteurs and special speakers. Mr. Pavlides of SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u92	Mr President, unfortunately, despite the fact that we are preparing to do our second-guessment on a bill, we hear a few things that do not allow us much room for not answering them. I think it has been deeply disappointing by Mr. Loverdos, opening the new fine agenda of the new centre-left, once again beginning with the same narrative, equation of the two extremes, matching the SYRIZA with the Golden Dawn, which, if anything, is at least political weakness. The elections in Central Left - listen to what he said - were intended to create a party against SYRIZA. Obviously, this is why Mr Psomadis, Mr Stefanos Manos and the IMF staff Miranda Xafa voted, which was very much in favour of the need to dismiss hundreds of thousands of civil servants. I think that flirting with the New Democracy is a good thing, and I think that they have not considered the lessons given to European elections about the need to redirect social democracy at all, and I do not know whether this agenda, mentioned by Mr Loverdos, was at the head of all these people who went and voted to establish this new party. Similarly, I am surprised to hear Mr. Teddy speak of unjust enrichment in public. Those who have unjustifiedly led public to poverty and collapse are talking about unjust enrichment. The surplus is not unjustified, it is deeply justified and I say very specifically that it is obviously carrying within it - we have said so in the committee - the tax footprint of a tax policy. At the same time, however, this justified surplus carries on and the treatment of the unjustified deficit of the ECA, which we budgeted for this year minus EUR 750 million, receiving an insurance system with a hole of less than 1.5 billion and led it to a surplus of EUR 199 million. That means over-performance to the 1 billion-dollar system. The surplus is justified, because we have dealt with unjustified undeclared income, of which we have established 300 million and have already received 200 million. The surplus is justified, because we have faced the unjustified hole in the EEAS that we have brought it into balance. The surplus is justified, because we have dealt with the unjustified behaviour of non-target measures, the corruption of CEDEFOP, the fragmentation and the destruction of public money. Parametric measures, which they know very well to be measured in Opposition. So because it is justified that the surplus that the New Democracy colleagues did not vote for last year and we will rightly return it to society this year, it is right that they too should vote for it this year if they really want to have a social imaging policy. As far as the bill is concerned, I have heard Mr Tindemans say that the substance of the bill is only the financial benefit. The whole story of counter-population was that: Do this bill to fill your funds to solve your budgetary problem. You have a collectible perception. You don't look at issues of addiction and addiction. You create a country of gambling and you cause casing. I want to make something clear. Obviously, we are concerned about public spending, and obviously, the revenues of the public fund are very much of an interest. That is not the only issue nor the main issue. If this was our only criterion, that is to say, our funds would be holding a thousand five hundred shops instead of five hundred, because we would have three times the insurance contributions in the system. We'd hold thirty-five thousand machines, because we'd have more turnover, more turnover, more taxation, more public revenue. So, by reducing both machinery and shops, it is clear that it is not our only criterion for public revenue. Let us answer from now on: Is the reduction of 30% of the machinery from thirty-five to twenty-five? Is it a casino in every neighborhood when from a thousand and a half hundred shops make it five hundred? So we know what we're talking about. The fact that it's case-sharing and dispersing small casinos in all neighborhoods, the reduction of two-thirds of the volume of stores across the territory, I think, if anything, that's a joke. We are clearly applying a restrictive and supervisory policy. The dominant project is to limit the smoking, limit the large and dense dispersion in the urban fabric, control the store, control the machine and control the player with the player card and his whole playful behaviour. The complaints of opposition - and we have said so in committee - must be a part of their self-criticism. They had legislated a bill that had thirty - five thousand machines, a thousand five hundred shops and an uncontrolled market. I am listening to Mrs Kefalidou from the Democratic Partnership, which makes an exclusive criticism of the regulatory framework on the basis of the characteristics of an independent authority. I think, first of all, that the regulatory framework is the responsibility of the audit committee, which has the characteristics of an independent authority. However, I would like to ask Mrs Kefalidou: what regulatory framework have they had for many years on line betting? Unless they think that for days SYRIZA has bloomed. He also uses a simple method of three: "Out of 30% you lowered machines, 80% increased time, so it's a charismatic arrangement". And Mr. Dendias is talking about rousphetti. I think that the simple method of three is in mathematics something similar to "Nini to put it." There are a lot more variables in the case. The variable, for example, of the profitability rate reduced by machinery, time-sharing, which leads to a regressive profitability by reducing profit intensity, reducing stores, limiting the size of concession to third parties, income and a thousand two others. The Minister said it before. Finally, I would like to make a comment in relation to the JRC and the abolition of gambling. I think it's a manhattan approach. The question we have to answer is not “yes” or “no” to gambling.” If that were the question, we would all answer, “No” in gambling. The question is, “Yes” to legal gambling or “yes” to illegal gambling.” Because the “No” issue in gambling obviously cannot be an issue that can be implemented. Well, don't be ostracized, then. The story about “No” in gambling and the absolute abolition of gambling simply leads to reflexes of prohibition and what in this area is abolished, just lives in illegality and darkness. We are interested in moving the player from the illegal environment into a legitimate, safe controlled environment. And that's what we do. Finally, the exclusive right of the OPCW to the v.4002/2011 existed and exists. There was nothing else in the tenders and concessionaires. Because they tell us that somehow, we gave rights and all that. Firstly, the OPCW was auctioning and secondly, no monopoly was created. Because I hear you talk about a monopoly all the time. Who thinks that if the OPCW would, by auction, give third parties the rights of shops, that would create competition? How would it create competition? Because they would have third-party rights at the stores? Since there are the same playing rules, the same institutional framework and the same rates of profit yield. So when there is this particular institutional framework, you do not create any competition. Monopoly was the conditions before. Monopolys are still on the market today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u93	The rapporteur for the New Democracy, Mr Georgadas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u94	Mr President, by recapitulating, we will say that the debate on this bill was particularly beneficial, it was revealing and it might also prove productive. Producing will prove whether the explicit commitments and assurances of the Minister are verified in the next period. I repeat them: First commitment: Within this day - during Mr. Dendias by Friday, Mr. Dendias gave him a small concession - the casino bill will have to be consulted. Second commitment: Once the casino bill comes to a vote, a new bill will come for online gambling. Third commitment: Within two months at the latest, the Agency of the Gaming Control and Surveillance Committee will be completed and the Regulation will be sent to the Council of State for the adoption of a Presidential Decree. Within two months, the Minister's statement to the committees. If these can be complemented, of course, by provisions on illegal gambling, which we all expect to see here, to see the proposals of the Government, to discuss them and to contribute to it - we think that in the end this bill will have something really important to offer throughout this process, throughout this activity. And we hope that the Minister will not give any reason to question his credibility. The timetable is specific. I think we all want these regulations, because it is essentially an immediate assumption that we had a fragmentary arrangement here, and we should have had a uniform arrangement for all the issues that are about to be tackled, gambling - as you say - in Greece. So these are the conclusions from these meetings. I would like to say a word about the amendment, which we tabled today, in relation to the abolition of the Law of Friday, the Contonis. There has been a debate and I think that the issues have been clarified. I really want a majority MEP to tell me if there is - because the Minister has accused us of this - a European country which has no high-security prisons. To tell us which European country does not have high security prisons for prisoners who have committed specific offences and to start talking about them. However, I think that Greece, unfortunately, once again, is an exception to this rule. However, what was revealed yesterday in the debate in the House, by a document given by Mr Loverdo and contained in the Minutes, has to do with the well-known issue of Mr Kammenos's attempt to violate a transnational agreement and make an agreement, a market-sharing with his own data, with his own wishes, with his own purposes. The majority Members cannot ostracize. The fact is there. It turns out by documents, it turns out by complaints. They cannot talk about moral matters, about some other issues that are allegedly concerned with topicality, and avoid responding to issues of legality, on issues of transnational conventions. If this is true, and what is proved - at least - by documents, then we have a Minister of National Defence who violated the mandate of the Minister of State and Prime Minister to make a transnational agreement, a Minister of Defence who has denounced and insulted senior military personnel who have done their duty, who have been forced to violate duty on his mandate. We have a Minister of Defence, who insults and raises issues about our diplomatic authorities, a Minister of National Defence, who creates major issues in relation to our country's position, its international obligations and the way it manages military material. You know, these questions are from reality. It is a matter of reality that common sense puts them in place, that society puts them in place. Some will not avoid responding to them in this House, and I also believe in justice, which, while it has shown a great deal of sensitivity to mere publications of other newspapers, without any evidence, until today that we are talking about - and I hope that I am disproved - has not come out of the legal obligation to carry out preliminary investigations. This very big issue, which is a matter of legitimacy - it is not a matter of moral order, it is a matter of legitimacy - you will not avoid answering it, and I hope then that each of you will stand up to the circumstances, protecting their personal dignity and personality. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. The reason for this is the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr. Charia Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, although I am not used to it, I shall begin with the last sentence of Mr SYRIZA's colleague. Mr Pavlides - but I am speaking to all of SYRIZA's colleagues - I want to say that your embarrassment and I understand that. The presence of two hundred and ten thousand citizens in the polls on Sunday was a very strong message and I inform you that this is just the beginning. We warmly thank them and hope that we will then be worthy of the confidence they show us. We are now going a little to the amendments, because almost nothing has been heard, we have only left to the main body of the bill, and there are some amendments that are important to highlight. Let's go to the extension of voluntary disclosure of taxable matter. This is not the first time you have brought it, ladies and gentlemen. It is still a fragmentary arrangement, which no one can deny. We are therefore working together and say 'yes' in this regard. As for Parnitha's casino, the whole debate that has taken place so many times in both committees and in plenary shows that the decision on his relocation wants a weighting, and there are also opposition interests here. It is not an easy decision, but we must really deal with the way out that is being given, in order to continue the operation of the company, but above all to ensure that jobs are ensured, and that is done in a clear, complete and timeless manner. Of course, from this whole process, the beneficiary is the private casino operating company, because from a sloppy and less attractive place it will be in a location with easier access, so it is very likely that more potential customers will be attracted. That is why we consider that clearly and must be compensated for the loss from the collective interest and from the local economy and society of the Municipality of Acharnon. We want to table some improvements in the amendment. We believe that what is lacking and should be foreseen is firstly the absolute safeguarding of old jobs and of the young people who have to be created throughout the period of validity of the licence. Secondly, the continued use of the facilities where the casino is currently located. Third, the provision of investments of a specific amount and object at the expense of the private company. Finally, the safeguarding of the economic benefit of the Municipality of Acharnon, which was reasonably intended to benefit some of the casino's operation. Because I know that the Minister has taken in his hands the letter of the Workers' Association at the casino, hotel and terminal Parnitha, here is an addition that the employees are asking for. In Article 1, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: c, which speaks of safeguarding jobs - we will support this - says that the working conditions of the new entrants will be governed by the applicable labour legislation and working collective agreements in the "Greek Parnitha Casino S.A.". We also move on to the big issue of the draft legislation on widow's pensions. Minister, it is true that you tabled the amendment after the debate with the institutions, and that creates a problem over time because we have not had the opportunity... [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the honourable Member]] I'm going to need a minute more than my time, Mr. President. We were therefore unable to invite representatives from the Death Marshal Association there, who, today, are sending their own letter and even asking for its publication. There, and not much too much, are expressing their deep dissatisfaction at the fact that no attempt has been made to resolve their essential and unnecessarily demands, which are not but the removal of age criteria and the reintroduction of 70% of the rate of granting the pension of the deceased. The government - and they say, unfortunately - continues to be treating widows and orphans in a disgraceful and disgraceful way. I will submit to the Minutes what they have sent, and it would be good if we could hear them live and tell you our position. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Charula (Haras) Kefalidou, presents the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The position, therefore, is that for the first time after the resolution of No.4387/2016, a minimum amount of EUR 360 to EUR 385 is foreseen, and this arrangement is eighteen months after the adoption of the Katrugalos Act. The conclusions are obvious. The government thus unequivocally admits that for eighteen months there has been an analgesic, leading to the extermination of thousands of retired widows and widows. It concludes that so far it has not issued widow’s pensions under the new insurance law to avoid the outcry, because it would be revealed that these pensions would be of the order of EUR 170. It seeks to equate downwards and massive poverty and that either does so for ideological reasons or does so from regularism to build a poverty clientele. Both are downright. Acknowledges that the minimum amount it lays down does not meet the modern needs of living, does not care about overthrowing family planning from the sudden event of death and, of course, destroys any sense of recompense between the contributions paid by the deceased and the amount that his family will receive after death. Apart from the minimum amount laid down, it fully maintains the unjust arrangements for the loss of 50% of pension and the shorter period of three years, provided that the widow or widow is under fifty-two years old. That is why we are also reintroducing the amendment, which we have tabled before today. We think it is the only realistic way out to show that there is respect for society for these people who are unrealisticly affected, and we believe that there must be a lifting of the unprecedented injustice, the reintroduction of the former regime - 70% of the pension to be granted to families - the lifting of the suspension or interruption of the grant on the basis of age. I shall table the amendment again in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Charula (Haras) Kefalidou, presents the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm going to the last point, the pension, which is the temporary pensions for electronic retire ment requests. Here I would like to say to you that it is not possible, as an incentive, to submit applications for temporary retirement in improved ways to enable us to move forward. It is obviously good that the applications for pensioners are submitted electronically, and there is obviously an incentive to them. However, the comparison of the new provision with the existing scheme, i.e. the status of L.4387 and its pre-existing Law 396/2011, is revealing the blow caused by the new insurance and temporary pensions, because what you present as an incentive and favourable regulation of the new amendment is nothing other than the reintroduction of the oldest scheme of v. 2011, however, only those who submit their electronic application. I conclude by saying that in terms of reducing the rate of excise duty on advertising, our proposal - which was heard yesterday by Mr Loverdos - is that there should be regulation for all media, not this fragmentation, which seems to be an overall government disease. Thank you for the time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u97	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Sakis Vardalis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. A great debate was indeed about gambling dependence, about the harm it causes, about the need for society to take measures, to lay down rules, about the need not to close our eyes to the reality of illegal gambling. On the basis of this whole debate, both the government and the other opposition parties have reached a conclusion: the ban does not give a solution to the problem. Yes, sir! Is the legalization, or rather the expansion of legitimacy, tackle the problem? Is the problem solved? Of course not! What, then, do you expect from this legislation that you are going to go through, since you do not intend to deal with the problem, as the SYRIZA rapporteur has clearly said in his dentistry? Because for you the dilemma is not "go or not gambling", "yes or against gambling", but it is the dilemma, as expressed by the SYRIZA rapporteur, "yes in legal or illegal gambling". That is your dilemma, so you are not going to tackle the problem radically. But you will not be able to reduce the number of users on the basis of this legislation. First of all, there is another important reason why you are not going to tackle the problem radically. If you wanted to deal with it, you would even make a reference to the causes that create it and acidify it. In order not to be unfair, I refer to others, other than Mr Manda, who spoke of a 'pollutant problem'. In other words, there are many factors - obviously it has had some in mind - without, of course, referring specifically to them. However, you will not succeed with this legislation, because first of all you will be sowing in every neighborhood shop with fruitpots. You're poaching here. What do you think? We're cutting down the stores. In relation to what do you reduce them? With what the previous ones anticipated. In reality today, you will increase them. So today's problem with society's gambling dependence will grow. That's the truth. That's what you do with this arrangement. Moreover, the main concern is that you are concerned: Go to ensure the profitability of the business group that operates in those fruits. That's the reality and you want to hide it! Some of us have been invited to the debate in this Chamber to choose businessmen. I'm not talking about the government. In fact, some are scandal hunters, as they have been described. So we were invited to choose with whom we are: with these entrepreneurs who are engaged in illegal gambling or with the entrepreneurs who are active in legal gambling? Well, we say it clearly once again: We are against gambling and any business action aimed at ensuring profitability. Why? Because in any case, whether gambling is legal - and I stress it - or it is illegal, its consequences will be specific and will not change anything. In conclusion, I would like to say this: in no case can legalisation be faced with the social phenomenon of dependence - because this is the case - because it leaves the social causes of it intact and the ideological mechanisms that reproduce it. Drug addiction, alcoholism and gambling are social phenomena and therefore the causes that define them are also social and economic. Moreover, the development of capitalism, the exacerbation of social conflicts and the depth of the economic capitalist crisis create conditions for the spread of this phenomenon, which takes epidemic proportions. Without wanting to analyse the issue, because I do not have time for dentistry, what you are doing is one thing and it is clear: it is to open up the way to seeking ways of managing the phenomenon to the benefit of the system. This system you want to serve and such ways you are looking for. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I also wanted to say a gift to the canalarchs. Finally, it looks like this little gift to the canalarchs will all give it together. Whether by voting in favour or by "the present", you have no objection to giving all those who went to the opposition, and you are supposed to have changed those who claim that you are now bringing the "new" and those who claim that the free is over. Finally, the system here once again shows that much can be changed. Tax exemptions, subsidies and money free to the big capital do not change at all with none of you. I'm not saying, you have a good excuse, I know. You're doing it for the workers, you're doing it for their insurance funds. After all, everything is done for the workers and the wages you are cutting and the pensions you are cutting and the tax exemptions and subsidies on large capital are all made in the name of the workers. You always have them in mind. I would say, in fact, days coming, that the same star leads you all, and it's the capitalist return of profits. Finally, much has been said - I will not say anything - about surplus, social dividends and everything else. One thing must be borne in mind: they must prepare well the strike that comes to resist, prevent, delay, the anti-grassroots, the anti-grassroots measures you have on the stools. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u99	Thank you Mr Vardalis, with whom the cycle of secondary education is completed. Before we proceed to the vote, Minister, would you like to place yourself on something?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u100	I do not want to trouble this House, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u101	No, you don't trouble this House, you have the right. I give you the opportunity. If you don't want to intervene...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u102	Everything has been said, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u103	Well, then we shall proceed to the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is adjourned: “Retirement arrangements of Law No.4387/2016, arrangements for the purchase of games, for the “Greek Casino of Parnitha S.A.” and other provisions. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u104	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u105	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u106	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u107	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u108	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u109	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u110	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u111	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u112	Therefore, the bill of the Ministry of Finance: “Retirement arrangements of Law.4387/2016, arrangements for the purchase of games, for “Greek Parnitha Casino S.A.” and other provisions” were accepted in principle by a majority. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Asked by this House: Is Article 1 old Article 10 acceptable, Amendment 1329/211 - as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u113	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u114	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u115	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u116	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u117	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u118	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u119	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u120	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u121	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Asked by this House: Is Article 2 old Article 11 acceptable, Amendment 1330/212 - as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u122	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u123	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u125	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u126	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u127	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u128	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u129	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u130	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Asked by this House: Can Article 3, first paragraph, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u131	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u132	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u133	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u134	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u135	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u136	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u137	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u138	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u139	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Asked by this House: Can Article 4 of the old Article 2 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u141	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u142	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u143	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u144	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u146	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u147	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u148	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Asked by this House: is Article 5 old Rule 3 accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u150	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u152	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u153	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u155	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u156	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u157	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Rule 6, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u159	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u160	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u161	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u162	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u164	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u166	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree: is Article 7 an old Article 6, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u168	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u170	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u171	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u173	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u175	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 8 of the old Article 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u176	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u177	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u178	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u179	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u180	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u184	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree: can Article 9 - old Article 8 - be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u186	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u188	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u189	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u193	Article 9 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Is Article 10, old Article 9, as amended by the Minister, acceptable?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u195	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u196	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u197	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u198	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u200	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u202	Article 10 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 11 of the old Rule 4, Amendment 1327/209, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u204	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u205	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u206	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u207	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u208	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u209	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u211	Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1341 and a specific number of 213 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u213	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u214	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u215	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u216	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u219	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u220	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1341 and a special 213 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Does the House agree to the hotel article, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u221	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u222	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u224	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u225	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u226	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u228	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u229	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Therefore, the bill of the Ministry of Finance: “Retirement arrangements of Law.4387/2016, arrangements for the purchase of games, for “Greek Parnitha Casino S.A.” and other provisions” were accepted in principle and on articles. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u231	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u233	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u234	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u236	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u238	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Finance: “Retirement arrangements under Law No.4387/2016, arrangements for the purchase of games, for “Greek Parnitha Casino S.A.” and other provisions” were accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all of them and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u240	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-14-S1-commons.u241	With the agreement of the House at 13.05 p.m. the sitting is closed for Thursday 16 November 2017 at 10 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: (a) legislative work, Parliament's decisions, according to the additional special agenda to be distributed and (b) parliamentary scrutiny, and debate on topical and urgent questions.
