ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that the meeting has not yet begun, and because our young friends and fellow citizens were very consistent, I would like to say to the Chamber that we are aware of the fact that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how the House is organised and how the House operates, thirty students and schoolchildren and three educational attendants from the 3rd High School. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is also known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories of seventeen students and students and two teachers attending from the General High School of Variety. The House welcomes you. You are practically present and present in the preparation for the opening of the debate at the level of Heads of State or Government to be held in the House. The delay has some reasonable reasons why it is not time for me to refer to it. Thank you very much for your presence. [[DISCLOSURE]] CHANGING PAGE FOR CHANGING MATTER
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Thursday 19 January 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 340/16-1-2017 topical question of the Radical Left Coalition, Maria Triantafyllou, to the Minister of Home Affairs, concerning the problems of supplying water to the Athletics, threatening the health of its residents. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 334/13-1-2017 by MP Arta of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Styriou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food concerning action measures to deal with avian influenza. 3. Under number 338/13-1-2017, a topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's League - Dawn Dawn Mr Nicholas Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the prospects for the residence of the twenty-eight islands that upgrades the national sovereignty and strengthens the sovereign rights of the country. 4. The Question No 337/13-1-2017 by the Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health regarding the scope of the application of telemedicine in Greece. 5. The Question No 342/16-1-2017 by MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Stelios to the Minister of the Interior about the immediate response to the problems of recent bad weather in Skopelos and Alonissos. 6. The 341/16-1-2017 topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the transfer of PPC users to companies of alternative electricity providers. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 332-12-1-2017 by Congressman Larisa of the River Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the completion of the projects in the Mezzogiorno of the Prefecture of Trikala. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 335/13-1-2017 by MP Serres of New Democracy Mrs Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister of Tourism about the declining of the tourist economy of Samos and the rest of the islands of the northeastern Aegean due to the government indifference. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 339/13-1-2017 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zaroulia to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the terrorist attack with kalashnikov against men of MS. 3. The Question No 333/12-1-2017 by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on the financing of journalists and websites. 4. The Question No 343/16-1-2017 by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the compensation to 100% of farmers and farmers of Lesvos for the great losses caused by snow and ice. 5. The Question No 336/13-1-2017 by the Member of the Attica of the River Mr. Georgios Mavrotas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs on the underfunding of the National Technical University of Athens. 6. The 313/5-1-2017 topical question by Piraeus, Union of Centres Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Health, concerning the risk of children and adolescents staying without treatment. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 91/5-10-2016 of the First Vice President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy, Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Migration Policy, concerning the program for the rental of apartments in refugees from the Athens Development and Tourism View Society (ETA). Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION In accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, at the initiative of the Chairman of the Group of the Democratic Alliance of the PASOK - DIMAR Mr Fotinis (Fhost) Genomes, at the level of the Heads of Party, on the primary sector and farmers. According to Rule 143(4) of the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time of Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras and of the President of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Fotini Gennimatas, on whose initiative today's debate is taking place, is twenty-five minutes of the hour. The length of speech by the Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, the New Democracy and the Chief of Officerial Response Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michalliakos, the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Dimitrios Koutsoubas, the Independent Greeks Mr. Panagiotis Kammenos, the Association of Centres Mr. Vassilios Leventis and the Potamis Mr. Stavros Theodorakis are twenty minutes of the hour for everyone. Up to two Ministers shall take part in the debate. The speaking time of the ministers is up to ten minutes of the hour. The speaking time of the Minister intervening at the stage of the main speeches or of the seconds before the speeches or the seconds of the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups are completed shall be limited to half of the time allowed. The Prime Minister has the right for 15 minutes and for 10 minutes the Presidents of Parliament and the Ministers. Finally, the Prime Minister can quantify for five minutes of the hour. As far as I know, the President of the Independent Greeks and Minister, Mr Kammenos, will not be able to attend. There can be no replacement by the party's parliamentary representative, as requested. Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome this initiative by the President of the PASOK to hold a debate on agricultural issues before the day. Allow me, however, to say a few words about the ongoing negotiations on the Cyprus issue for three minutes, because the situation is very dense. The Geneva Conference continues today, after a few days' break, at a technical and diplomatic level. The Greek Government continues in close contact and coordination with the Government of Cyprus and President Anastasiades a hard and painful effort to find a fair and sustainable solution that will benefit the entire Cypriot people, a solution without guarantees and with the withdrawal of Turkish occupying troops from Cyprus. Throughout the discussions we tried to develop a climate of understanding and rational discussion both within the internal market, which I think has been achieved, but also abroad, in other words, our contact with international organisations and institutions, with the United Nations and with the European Union, and to play a constructive role in the negotiation process without, however, retreating from our fair positions. Without having reached a point where we could say that there is a direct definition of a solution, we have to say that we have major developments. For the first time since 1974 maps were exchanged between Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots, although differences remain. For the first time, the issue of guarantees and security has been on the negotiating agenda. And this is a great diplomatic success. Furthermore, the European Union is now playing an active role in the negotiations, which, in our view, is a very positive development. So without being over-optimistic, but with wisdom and responsibility, as is appropriate to the point where we are, we continue to work hard with low tones, but with no fear of fear, no ideals. Step by step. And I hope that we have positive developments in the next period on a huge, critical national topic. But positive developments do not just depend on our own efforts. The other side of the table is a prerequisite, and in particular Turkey, to enter the negotiation in a similar spirit, to put an end to aggressive rhetoric and to work seriously and responsibly. However, what is certain is that we will always be at the side of the Cypriot people and will support the sincere efforts for a fair and sustainable solution within the framework of the UN's decisions, but also the status of Cyprus as a Member State of the European Union. I should like to take this opportunity to say that I will always be at the disposal of the parties and the leaders of the parties, both myself and the Foreign Minister, because it goes without saying that at this critical and sensitive stage of the talks there must be full detailed and honest information to all parties about the developments. After this little introduction, I'll come to the point. I would like, therefore, once again to say that I sincerely welcome the interest of the opposition parties in the issues that concern the rural world. I would like to welcome particularly the interest of both PASOK, which has called for the debate, but also of the New Democracy, that is, the parties that have ruled the place over the last decades from 1974 to 2015, by, in particular, exercising, in the past twenty years, a policy which we all know about. I think that, since we are talking about agriculture, farmers themselves are aware of it. We are talking about a policy of decades that systematically undermined the productivity and sustainability of the agricultural sector, a policy that systematically exploited, and many times with cynicism, important financial instruments, European financial instruments and aid, not the productive reconstruction of the area, but the creation of huge customer networks. After all, the basic principle of this policy was the decoupling of subsidies from production. A policy that transformed a number of agricultural cooperatives, the basic tool for real policy in the field of primary sector, into a man of client-to-determination and interactivity, defaming the cooperative movement. We are talking about a policy which ultimately served speculators and intermediaries' circuits at the expense of agricultural income. With this policy, one of the most important productive sectors in our economy has been for decades, and the main winners have been the parties that ruled and the client state that built, not the primary production sector and farmers. There was considerable political gains coming from clientele networks, but this policy was a short-sighted and disastrous one because it made it possible for our country to produce competitive products, agricultural products of quality and even competitive costs, that is, products which can be sold domestically, but also for foreign markets without excessive protection and state subsidies. And every time farmers came to the dead of this policy, they clashed with the governments, but also with willing media, then, to launch organised attacks against the majority of the agricultural world and their dignity, often speaking in the respective rural mobilizations for 'parasitarianism','multiple cars' and 'big money wasted in the nightclubs'. We remember all this. Of course, now, it is easy for those who at the time said to be friends of farmers and beating their backs and expressing concern about the sustainable development of the primary sector. However, no one can forget what was going on until yesterday in this place and no one can argue that the parties that have ruled for so many years and are now in the chairs of counterpopulation have fallen from heaven. And it is difficult to believe this concern as being sincere when it is expressed by all those who ruled have put tombstones in the great potential of this place for productive reconstruction in the primary sector. The question, however, today is not about going back to yesterday and to the great responsibilities of those who managed yesterday. The situation - I think - that we have received is well known. The issue is how we deal with it and its treatment requires seriousness, requires a plan and requires a strategy. At this point, then, we are implementing an integrated strategic plan for the reconstruction of the rural economy and the regeneration of the region and of the countryside. A key tool for the implementation of our strategic plan is the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme. It provides for a Community contribution of EUR 4.7 billion and, together with national and private participation, it is expected to mobilise total resources of EUR 6 billion for the primary production sector. I would like to introductoryly reply to the questions raised by Mrs Gennimata by asking for the prior agenda for a debate in the House that there is no delay in the use of Community funds. The Rural Development Programme has already been launched for 1.5 billion euros and because, in our understanding, decentralisation and strengthening of the role of self-government, 37% of the resources of the Rural Development Programme have been allocated to manage the regions. Our first strategic aim is to increase employment in the primary sector, as well as age renewal in the agricultural profession. We want young people to enter the space, trained and dynamic, people who want and can exploit the productive potential and business opportunities of the primary sector, mainly based on innovation and new technologies. Our second strategy is to create added value from the standardisation of agricultural production, to stop the regrettable phenomenon for our farmers to sell in bulk and for international networks to start using the finest, qualitative Greek products and to fruit our farmers the benefits, the profits from this process. Our third strategic aim is to insist on what we call quality agriculture by producing high quality certified agricultural products produced by environmentally friendly methods and providing security for consumers. The crucial question, however, is how easy it is to implement these strategic goals in practice, when the former government parties, who have today come to express their sympathy to the rural world, have given us fines and charges in the area of aid which reached EUR 3 billion, a normal scourge of systematic and conscious customer mismanagement, which, of course, is not much to say today, and when the loose ends from the payment of aid from the previous governments, the ones we received, arrive until the decade starting in 2007. However, with targeted actions and efforts this year, for the first time in history, the planned aid was paid in time, without fines and no charges, and at the same time the ten-year outstandings we received were paid off, a process that ended in the first two months of 2017 after the examination of all the problems and objections. The total amount of aid credited to the accounts of the beneficiary farmers in all schemes in 2016 amounted to EUR 3,7 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, please. The Prime Minister is speaking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u5	Within 2016, 3.7 billion euros were entered into the bank accounts of beneficiary farmers. And that, you know, is a record amount since the common agricultural policy exists. And at this point I would like to make a comment. We hear many times that the economy has been at a positive rate of growth. They've already been recorded, they're foreseeable. The forecasts of the Commission and the IMF for growth in 2017 are 2.5 to 3%. We hear that the negative forecasts for 2016 have been defied. All this didn't happen at random. It didn't rain from the sky to growth. It happened with a plan, with a job. Because these 3.7 billion were not just warming up the producers' bank accounts, they also warmed up the rural economy, which is an important part of what we call a real economy. Debt has been repaid, business has moved, the market has moved. As for the delay in ELGA's allowances, which Mrs Gennimata mentioned in her letter, in her proposal to hold the debate, I must say that you do not have good information on this point either. The allowances of ELGA, which in 2016 reached 144m euros, were all paid in the same year. This is also something that is happening for the first time. While the refund of the oil tax of more than EUR 150 million, despite the delay in auditing, will be paid by the end of January, i.e. this month, in the next 15 days. At the same time, the reimbursement of VAT to farmers under special arrangements continues. But because you are talking about suffocating tax burdens and a great increase in insurance contributions, you are giving me the opportunity in this debate to make an account and to see and listen to all the farmers, who I imagine are watching, but not only the farmers but all the other taxpayers, how the real situation is. The scheme we received provided for a tax on agricultural income at a uniform rate of 13%. Either 10,000 per month had an income or 200,000 at the same rate as the tax. I don't need to tell you who was favouring such a regime. I'll let you say it yourself. Our government and I personally last year during farmers' mobilisations, I have received representatives of farmers twice and have debated practically, I believe, we have committed ourselves to a fairer tax system for farmers and committed ourselves to tax relief for the majority of farmers and we have done so. We have for the first time been tax-free for farmers of around EUR 9.5 000, depending on the number of protected children. Whilst taking account of the basic aid alone - because the so-called linked aid and the so-called green aid are tax-free - farmers' tax-free reaches 12 000 euros. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Do you understand what that means? Do you think it's a little bit? Do you think it's insignificant? If you don't understand what that means, it would be good if I said it to understand it. It concerns a large majority, based on the income declared by farmers, 95% of farmers, according to the 2015 figures, which states, without aid, incomes below EUR 9 000 per year. And you know, this large majority of farmers, 95%, not only will not pay a single euro tax in 2017, but will also be returned to him in this year the entire tax payment he paid in 2016. Let's go down to the insurance room. You know, but of course you want to pretend that you do not know that the transition to the single market was a commitment that we could not avoid. However, we have managed to make this transition five years in depth and with a reference to 70% of the minimum wage. But if we put it down here, with figures and figures, we will see that for the vast majority of farmers, not all of them, but for the huge majority of farmers, 85% of farmers, the benefits of the reduction in taxation that I have told you before the tax, which reaches 12 000 euros - and often we fear and say it, because they also listen to us from outside - they outweigh or go far beyond insurance contributions. But these contributions don't go to the rain. Do you have a picture of what was the lower pension for the agricultural world, the one we found until last year, until the insurance reform? It was 145 euros, which in a decade deep, in 2017 in particular, would become zero. We have therefore introduced the national pension at EUR 384, not as a lower, but as a minimum basis of calculation, which, together with the remuneration, will be at least EUR 450 for a farmer with 20 years of insurance. And on the way, the minimum pension will be at EUR 504, because the farmer will now enjoy the same benefits as the other insured. They will not be second-class farmers, as they were all over the past few years. In short, almost twice as much will be the minimum pension that would result from the current provisions on the OGA that we have received. But we didn't stay there. We proceeded with institutional areas and initiatives in the rural area. We did not only remain in the debate on taxation and insurance, which was the main content of the debate last year, where we made these commitments - and I personally - to farmers. We have made progress in institutional areas and in rural areas initiatives, and I believe that these are more important and worth discussing today. I want to quote the most important ones. Firstly, we have introduced the bachelorship for irregularly resident migrant land workers as an element of recognition of their work, their remuneration and their respective contributions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u6	Please be quiet. Excuse me, Prime Minister. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u7	Secondly, we have promoted a law on the framework of cooperation, so as to address the existing derelict and morbid situation in the cooperatives. And here, let me say that we are determined to collide with the pathogens of the past and we need to collide with these pathogens. We are not going to allow other purposes to prevail in this area, in the cooperative area. We want cooperation as a basic tool for our agricultural policy and not as a customer tool to keep farmers, producers in hostages. Because only in this way will we be able to make the Greek farmer a real manager of his production and we will be able to break all kinds of cartels on the markets. The cartels, of course, were privileged interlocutors of the previous governments. With the targeted funding of the rural development programme, the few dozen productive cooperatives can be kept alive and new cooperatives can be created from the outset. We are also paying particular attention here to women's cooperatives and to the organisation of social and mutual economic institutions. Thirdly, we supported the issue of the Cartas Farm, implementing, after painful efforts, a basic commitment through our cooperation with the banks for the low-priced financing of agricultural work and ensuring the relative liquidity on a yearly basis with a guarantee of the basic Community aid. Fourthly, we have set up the Property Management Agency for Agricultural Characters, a non-profit-making body under the control of the public, with the main aim of exploiting its property, especially by young farmers. Fifthly, we proceeded to the law on grazing land, on their proper printing and on their rational use. The law minimises the risks of fines - which were general in the previous period - while contributing to lower production costs with sustainable grazing management. At the same time, confronting pathogenesies and accumulated problems of decades, we are preparing special interventions for the compulsory registration of the country of origin of raw materials in dairy products, market control and decisive restrictions on brokers' immunity and cartels, for the application of the Community directive and for the timely payment of suppliers to farmers. The Ministerial Decision on the People's Markets and Markets of Producers and Producers, which will be crucial for upgrading the retail trade in agricultural products, is signed immediately. In addition, given the good performance, the over-efficiency - I would say - of the economy, we are reviewing in the next few years - and yet in 2017 the excise duty on wine, the HICPIA on livestock facilities, the reduction of VAT to 13% on certain input categories, especially in animal production and the use of the herd for family labour. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] There are four targeted interventions that we are working on and which we believe in a constant dialogue with the rural world we will be able to implement in the next few years. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we need to speak openly. It is not so sincere that the interest of those who have ruled the place for years is not in opposition to the problems of the rural world today. Another is design. What you really want is to blackmail a conflict of government with farmers, hoping that you will get some political benefit from it. This explains your great frustration at the fact that despite the tensions, which are self-evident, we are in a lasting and sincere dialogue with the rural world. And of course, the fact that we are in a lasting dialogue, like myself personally - you have made even a great mobilisation in Crete - we have come to an end to a substantial dialogue within the place of production with the real farmers, who have great disagreements and differences. This, you know what? It's ruining your account. What's your account? Your account is what you tried to cultivate last year, that the government, the Minister for Rural Development, the Deputy Minister, the Prime Minister, are not talking to farmers and they are isolated and surrounded by a great pan-agricultural movement that takes the form of a political crisis. It didn't come out of you last year. The problem for you is that the tactics you use to undermine social discontent is extremely simplistic. You are taking the country's real situation out of discussion, in what context this debate is taking place. And, of course, override the great fact of who is responsible for this situation. You are out of discussion of the commitments of the agreement, you who, while you were government, signed what you were put under the pen and called for six months when we were negotiating hard to do the same. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Next, you are trying to show up the huge economic and social problems that your own policy has caused with the disastrous pillaging of the economy and the primary sector of production 2010-2015 as problems that this government has created here. As much as criticism and political debate on social problems are welcome, then, there is really no wonder that you have the courage. The courage to give us up for the problems of the rural world that you accumulated, the courage to talk about the public health situation, which you systematically and fully consciously dissolved, the nerve to talk to you with the PSI about the situation in the insurance funds and the reserves of the funds that you looted with a signature! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The courage to question our own moral advantage, when “SIEMENS”, “NOVARTIS”, the preachers of loans, the lists of black money, the sea loans “saving” one after the other. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You are trying to convince the world that if it hadn't taken you in 2015 - because the wrath of your people threw you - the government today would be in place and the country would be calling for growth.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u8	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u9	If you want advice, then, do not so much underestimate the intelligence of the Greek people. The fact that two years are now unequivocally supporting those interests that were behind you and while you were in the governments and allowing them to rely on them too, this does not mean that you can control the minds and critical thinking of the citizens. People remember very well who you are and who brought us to this mess that we today are trying very hard to get through the day, step by step. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The world remembers that you who allegedly protest over the high surpluses of the agreement had agreed to surpluses of 4.5% for 2015, 2016 and 2017. And that would mean EUR 13 billion more burdens, more taxes and more cuts for 2016 and 2017. Where would you get that money from? Why don't you explain it to Greek citizens? Why don't you explain clearly to the citizens that growth means tax-free businesses and individual employment contracts and tax-free dividends for the shareholders of public limited companies, as Mr. Mitsotakis promised at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition? Just a few days ago, Mr Mitsotakis announced that he would take unilateral action against the institutions to reduce taxation. Watch out, Mr. Mitsotakis, slowly blood! Don't be so hard on the institutions! No more blood, no more a deal of truth! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] After all, the Greek people saw your old age when this government decided to give part of the overdraft of the surplus, namely EUR 617,000, to the pensioners and the thirteenth pension. We saw your old lady when they sneezed at the German Ministry of Finance and you were cold in Athens! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And not only did you not vote, but you celebrated with applause when the ESS temporarily froze the short-term debt measures. Your hailstness, however, was not against the government, your hailstness was against the low pensioners. But you know, Mr. Mitsotakis, he's better laughing than anyone who's been laughing lately. And those who laughed better were the ones who had the opportunity this year to Christmas with dignity, and I am thinking above all of the pensioners of the rural world who are receiving pensions of EUR 200 and 300 and saw in their bills EUR 850. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] No unilateral action has any plan to do, Mr Mitsotakis. The reduction in taxation, moreover, which you are evangelizing, in fact, is not about the world that is suffering, the world of labour, the people who are actually making it harder. It is only about big incomes, big profits and big fortunes. Because these interests are represented. I am surprised, however, that Mr Mitsotakis and his colleagues, when they come to the media, from no one asks what financial framework they will implement these promises, from where to fill the reduced tax revenues, implementing these kinds of announcements, what spending they are planning to cut and which sectors of the social state they intend to demolish, so that the private sector will then come to fill the gap for those who can pay. No one asks you what has become 'caramella' when we were in the chairs of the counterpopulation and since the morning, noon, at night, everyone asked us one thing: 'Where will you get the money?' You don't fall in love with the obvious. And what's the obvious? That you are already setting up your political account to proceed with what you want to implement, namely redundancies in the public sector and, of course, an unprecedented attack on private sector workers. You tell us that for the sufferings of this society, tax evasion is not the fault of black work, it is not the responsibility of God! - the corruption you have caused forty years, the complexity, the hatred, the party state, but it is the responsibility of the civil servants who are constantly confronted with private sector workers and the unemployed. But that is not the real controversy. The real controversy is another. It is the confrontation between the productive forces of this country and the parasitic political system that set up the state-owned entrepreneurs. It's the controversy between people of hard work and work on the one hand and the unconscious and arrogant elite you represent and you don't see the time to come to power, to favor again. So listen, once and for all: This government, even in the worst possible conditions, is always trying to ensure the weakest, which your own governments have never even thought of doing. We talked about a parallel program a year and a half ago, after our re-election since September 2015. And this parallel programme, step by step, is being implemented. Two and a half million uninsured today have the possibility of free medical care in the National Health System. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] We face health gaps with thousands of recruitments, first in the years of the crisis. We opened our schools this year with teachers and books for the first time in the years of the crisis. We have established and enlarged school meals in many areas of the country, which are facing a huge unemployment problem. We are promoting a coherent policy on the humanitarian crisis, constantly expanding the programme, which we started with the take-up of our tasks in 2015. We effectively protect the first home of the poor, rebuild social work programmes to serve the unemployed and not the entrepreneurs of training. We also brought a law, which you swayed, for the media, so that it could enter order. Sadly for you and despite your celebrations and despite the decision of the CVC, the CVC decision itself says that this law is valid and must be implemented. The license will proceed. So, tell us, you're gonna be in the middle of trying to get a class into this place for the second time? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] But also in the field of the economy, the country is returning to growth. The economy is turning a page. Revenue is over-revenue. Unemployment is steadily deviating. Four units have been deviated from the day we entered into government debt. If these sizes were you, you would have set up not a success story, but with the media that supported you, you would have created the feeling that the Greek people live in a paradise. We don't do that. But we have tangible evidence, in particular, one by one. The Greek economy has been positive for a third consecutive quarter and will close positively. The objectives of the programme have been overstated. We are in programme for the second consecutive year after the catastrophic five years 2010-2014. Yesterday the data on revenues on a modified cash basis were just announced. The State budget revenues are EUR 4.39 billion with a target of EUR 1.98 billion. We are EUR 2.4 billion above the target. While you, even for a sample, did not manage to catch the targets, even though you had dizzy us about Mr Samaras' succession. But why didn't you manage to catch the targets? Do you know why? Because you agreed on a weak and destructive programme, impossible to implement. But we will not talk about success story, because we are living in this society, and we know that it takes work, effort, time for economic indicators to come and reflect real prosperity, the reality of citizens. We are aware of the struggle every day by the backbonemen, the toilers, the free professionals, the farmers - as we speak about them today - and the fight they give with dignity for survival and want to expect a better future, not to live with the fantasies of success story. We are therefore within a programme that is conscious of the difficulties, but we are achieving the goals. And you know why? Because we have faced tax evasion, particularly of the strongest layers, we have fought corruption, we have reduced waste, we have finally put the state mechanism to work for the public interest and not to serve our friends. That is the way forward and the possibility of greater tax relief for the weakest and small and medium-sized enterprises. We also managed to house the NRP and achieve a record of its absorption, which reached 98%. We are first in Europe for a second year because we have cut off the services you have done. We are completing the large projects, which have been stuck for three years. And you know why the big plays were stuck. Because you couldn't find it in sharing. That's why they were stuck. I'm saying it straight away. I'll see you today! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So a climate of recovery is being shaped. It forms a climate of confidence for the Greek economy. And the exit from the program, based on financial sizes, is realistic and visible for the first time in the middle of 2018. We are therefore stepping up our efforts to complete the second assessment so that, after including the integration of Greek bonds into the Quantitative Relaxation Program, the country can access the money markets. If, therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, your plan is based on the failure of negotiation and the incitement to social discontent, it would be appropriate to abandon it. And tell us straight away, Mr Mitsotakis, you who are calling on us to close the evaluation, which is exactly what you want. Do you want us to sign what they give us? Finally speak straight and answer. Do you agree with the absurd demands of the International Monetary Fund, yes or no? Do you want the 4.5 billion measures proposed by the Fund for 2019 to implement them, yes or no? Do you want the Greek labour market exemption scheme to continue in the country by the laws applicable in Europe, which you imposed? Do you want this to go on, yes or no? The questions, you know, are rhetorical. What you want - and everyone knows - is for the country to fail and for the failure to be politically fruited with you, so that you can then come as a white knight and a saviour! But do what? What are you going to do in a destroyed country? To implement the toughest austerity program that this country has ever seen: dismantle social state, redundancies, sell-out of public property and cuts in wages and pensions. This is your plan, Mr Mitsotakis: to make Greece a special economic zone, to fail the second assessment, to impose their pursuits on creditors, to impose additional measures that the Greek economy does not need, so that you as a savior can do what? To complete the disaster, shock and awe, left in the middle in 2015 by Mr. Samaras and Mr. Venizelos. So we will not allow you to do that, Mr Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So I ask you to answer today and to specific questions: Do you continue to consider the possible withdrawal or change of role of the International Monetary Fund in the Greek programme as a catastrophic development? Do you still think that the hardest of the lenders should insist on new tough measures? Do you continue to indulge in your view that the zero deficit clause should be applied, should we proceed with collective redundancies? Do you still consider the restoration of collective bargaining as a left-wing ideal? In the end, do you still think - something you have said in Parliament - the social majority as improper? Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek people are fighting in difficult conditions. Fortunately, the Greek people are in a position to understand who is trying to get the country out of the crisis and who is trying to block the economic recovery course, in order only to bring the social discontent to fruition. Here, we will be and we will speak directly and openly again. The second assessment - which you have again put all your money, all as in the first place, that it will not be closed - and will be closed without any additional measures being made after the end of the programme, no matter how much you work for the opposite. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] You will again remain with your lasting request for elections to look disappointed, as is the case for a year ago, that you have been oppositioning the air with catastrophe, dangers, lies and propaganda. We move forward and commit that every time things will be even better for the country and society, even if this means it will be worse for your own political plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the educational program "Workery Democracy", organized by the Foundation of Parliament, twenty-one students and two teachers from the 9th Municipal School of Vyron. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the PASOK Parliamentary Group - DIMAR Mr Fotini Genomes - has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Prime Minister, we had to have a debate in this House before you finally sit down and listen to Opposition! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have asked for this debate here today, because for us the primary sector is a priority. For us it is a key pillar to the new productive model of development, which needs the place and must be based on Greek quality products. And we asked for this debate today, because the situation in the Greek countryside is deadlocked. You may have thought today that they're listening only to you at the Lecanopod. But I can assure you that the situation for farmers, farmers and fishermen is extremely difficult and really tested. We have been on their side over the years and years of the crisis - both to farmers and farmers and farmers and producers' organisations, and to processing and to exporters, who have managed to support very difficult years and other important sectors of the economy, which were absolutely essential. You know very well, Prime Minister, that at the moment farmers are discussing mobilisations. So we don't expect to go jump on the tractors and gloss, like you once did. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] We come here to the House, to prevent deadlocks for both the rural world and for the rest of Greece. And because this is a very important issue, I do not want to consume much time from my prototype for all the other things that have been heard, but I cannot stand up to a few issues. And I begin with the news and interventions you are currently trying in the press. The whole of Greece knows that you were unable to make "SYRIZA Channel" and now you are trying to build "SYRIZA News"! You were unable to put Vice-President of the National Broadcasting Council - because we strongly resisted - Mr Mulopoulos and you are now imposing him on the Doll. And leave this inconvenient relationship with the band. It's just another in vain attempt to set up a regime while you're falling apart. A highly indebted instrument becomes your government's subordinate. Part of the banking system is used unambiguously by the Government to control the information. Freedom of the press goes for a walk. Journalists are hostages. The Prime Minister, who is roaring about typhoon and corruption, is now becoming a cat of Himalayan! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] "SYRIZA is fighting the complex": The most modern joke in the country these days. This is the first time a disgrace on the Left. And listen and take the decision: No matter what you do, the judgment of the Greek people will be invincible to you. Really, I listened carefully. About a quarter of you talked to us as if you were opposition. Then we almost heard that you were implementing the programme of Thessaloniki. It's all the time you got. And finally you ended up in your favourite route: open another horrific battle with Mr. Mitsotakis, let yourself finally be saved by another fight in the House today. You have asked us what development means to us and you have spoken of primary surpluses. The primary surpluses committed to the previous governments had taken into account a provision for growth at 6%, and you returned to the recession. So you can't make comparisons. It is courageous at least this here today in this Chamber. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Stop and learn to listen. Accustomed to listening to criticism. You asked us about growth. For us development it means: targeted incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises and productive forces in this place, concrete measures, so that these incentives and this wealth production can create jobs for the new generation and for the long-term unemployed. At the same time it means surplus resulting from the production of wealth and not from the overtaxation you have sat down, you have kneeled, you have today broken the middle class. From this surplus we can really support the weakest. So you're entering your third year of governance and you have a government that misleads, unreliable, devastated and inefficient, morally and politically defeated. You've reached Greece in red. On the question of the economy and the second assessment you seem to be once again on the brink of a defeated slogan. You are signing up to what has been requested and you are dancing at the pace of the most conservative circles in Europe. Are you talking to us and swinging our finger on what has been signed in the past few years? Already you seem to be discussing additional measures, painful. And all you're trying to do is take it a little further after 2018. What are you doing with this? You're mortgageing the future. Listen, Prime Minister, you and your current majority in this House have no right and no legitimacy to mortgage the future of the country. You have no mandate and no legitimacy for a 3plus memorandum, for a Memorandum 4, no matter what you baptize them. You have an art in baptism! I have to admit that. You have no legitimacy, neither for a permanent comité nor for a permanent cut. You've said a lot. That's enough now. You can't baptize the fish meat. Shall we take them in a row? You flagged the debt haircut. What did you do? You've had enough of short-term measures, which will yield after 20 years when you unblock them. You said you'd quickly close the second evaluation. You can assure us from the outset of the celebrations 'that everything goes before the day, everything is ready'. What are you doing? You're stalling. And that creates insecurity and uncertainty, which is a noose in the neck of the real economy. You have declared that you will not accept any new measures. You told us today. What's going on in practice? It seems that you have already accepted a new reduction in duty. Is this about the farmers you said before? You can answer your dentistry if you think about it and plan it. It seems that you have accepted the permanent cutter and it seems that you have also accepted a new increase in VAT. I hope you do not accept, as it does, and the abolition of the personal difference in pensions. You guaranteed that you would reintroduce the collective bargaining. And now it looks like you're gonna accept team redundancies. And you move us here and your finger. That's a lot of nerve now. You've become a joke on the lips of youth that scares you. You've seen what they've done. Nice postcards. ‘SYRIZA Negotiation’, ‘Durability with SYRIZA’, ‘SYRIZA Development’, ‘SYRIZA Works’. The words lost their essence with you. You are progressing without a plan, unfortunately without a strategy, incompetent and effective. And it is now visible that you are driving the country into a new deadlock. You seem to have lost them. That is why while you have a birthday of your Government in a few days, it is certain that there is not one Greek or one Greek and I think neither will you celebrate it. Prime Minister, to the peasants you also placed rocked rabbits and your election commitments were unreasonable here too. You deceived them. Through the discussions I have had with their representatives throughout Greece - because in recent months I have turned the whole country - and not from information, as you said before, the conclusion is one: Despair, deadlock, despair in the primary sector have been named after: SYRIZA - ANEL. That's your work! In such a short time, so many negative measures have been taken for the primary sector, which farmers and rural people feel can't handle. This is the feeling throughout the Greek region and you do what you don't see and that you don't listen. Do you want to see your works and your days one - one? And it's not too little, it's not one and two. It's a dozen weights, twelve meters unbearable. Measure 1: Taxation of agricultural incomes with a rate increased from 13% to 22% -45%. Measure 2: Taxation of the CAP's agricultural aid with small exceptions. This will make the previous measure even more unbearable. I would point out here that farmers are very anxious because in 2016 you paid the 2016 subsidies and 50% of the subsidies in 2015. You understand what happens when they get the clearing media in 2017. Measure 3: You have reached the point of increasing the tax advance to 100%. You imposed an additional EUR 650 on each main farmer's profession and increased the additional ENPI for farmers and parcels. Measure 4: The high increase in insurance contributions. This is essentially an additional income tax, since for the first time insurance contributions are linked to taxable income and will rise, together with health contributions, to 27% of income. Measure 5: OGA abolition, which was a serious conquest for farmers. And don't tell us now that you couldn't avoid it because it was a proposal from your competent minister. And we told you: 'Don't do that.' Measure 6: Increase in VAT on agricultural supplies and feedstuffs from 13% to 23% in 2016 and from 1-1-2017 to 24%. Now you're saying you're thinking about it. I wish today's debate helped you get some things back and improve them. But we do not know what comes before the second assessment is closed, what we have in front of us. Measure 7: Increase of VAT on the Aegean islands, leading to despair of the island's producers and farmers due to the very high cost of production. Nothing guarantees that the suspension, which we voted on, will not come back in 2018. Measure eight: the introduction for the first time of excise duty on wine, without any collector's effect - perhaps now you're thinking about it again - and the introduction of an increased tax on beer by small businesses. We told you at the outset not to do this, we were fighting this Chamber, but you did not hear from us. Measure nth: Elimination of the refund of excise duty on oil for farmers and an increase in electricity prices. In particular, with new fuel increases, energy costs will also affect the competitiveness of Greek farms. Measure tenth: Financial suffocation by banks and capital controls. Farmers find it difficult to cultivate and ensure funding for modernising their farms. Manufacturing and exporting enterprises in the primary sector are unable to invest in improving their facilities. This is the reality today in the Greek countryside. Measure 11: Change in the length of raw milk which led to an increase in imports and a critical hit on livestock farming. I did not understand why you were celebrating your arrangements before. Measure twelfth: Transfer of OPEKEPE and ELGA reserves and delay in the payment of subsidies and allowances. In OPEKEPE, yes, at the end of 2016, the situation began to normalise. However, in the ELGA the situation remains tragic and there is a failure to respond to the needs for an immediate assessment of damages and a very long delay in the payments of compensation. Because of the recent bad weather and the impotence of the government to give a solution to the problem of movements of ELGA staff, it is certain that the situation will deteriorate. And if you have not understood what is going on with the ELGA and what the problem is, I fear that you are not and can give any solution at all. Things will go even worse. Ladies and gentlemen, after all this, is there anyone who believes that small and medium-sized farms will not be kneeled in 2017? You turned the farm income into an allowance. Another work of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL! And it wasn't all that was, but you "handed off" and "frozen" the Agricultural Development Programme 2015-2020, which you told us was your key tool, but you didn't tell us who secured it. Did the previous governments? Why don't you say a word about it? The EUR 20 billion that was secured in 2013-2014 - because then they were secured - includes about EUR 6 billion for rural development. So, two years after the start of the programme, I ask you what both the institutions and the farmers are asking: why has a young farmer not even joined the programme? And be careful, I don't ask if he's applied for, but if he's joined, to achieve the requested renewal of the age pyramid. Why has there not been a notice for improvement plans and processing plans, for increasing the competitiveness of farms and businesses, for improving the quality and for increasing the added value of agricultural products? Why has the measure not been called for in order to create new producer groups and to finance them from the new Rural Development Programme? Why don't innovation partnerships go ahead? What are you waiting for? Is the program over? A few days ago you had a meeting in Hilton. Go on, finally, just one! Why has the use of resources planned to tackle the damage from extreme weather phenomena not proceeded because of climate change, but also because of the application of the income insurance measure as a result of marked price fluctuations in the market? Why has the Guarantee Fund not gone ahead for the lending of farmers and businesses with resources from the Agricultural Development Programme 2015-2020? Why has the creation of small chains of disposal not proceeded directly from farmers to consumers of their products and the cooperation of the primary sector with tourism? Why have the export promotion and support programmes not gone ahead when, as you know, six out of ten export champions are quality products in the agri-food sector? Why has the agricultural advisory and advisory system not gone ahead, which is necessary to help farmers produce quality products and adapt to the requirements of consumers and the market, so that farmers can manage the lack of water, irrigation and implement environmentally friendly farming methods? For two years you have not used the provision that we made with the PV TWG photovoltaics, which would have the effect of reducing the cost of electricity up to 50%. You found ten big irrigations recommended in the Juncker package. Their maturation had begun, and today it's unclaimed. We have pointed this out, with a question from our parliamentary group, you have answered that they will be promoted through the Rural Development Programme and their fate has been ignored since then. Why have you not already been authorised by fast track procedures for livestock holdings so that they can join European programmes? Why does the Operational Programme for Fisheries and the Sea have a zero allocation of resources? What do you say to fishermen and those active in aquaculture, a very dynamic productive sector? Prime Minister, have you been at all busy because in all farmers' mobilizations young people first lead? I will answer you: because they are young people, with innovative ideas, who want to stay here, work in their country, and you do not give them the opportunity, cut them off every opportunity, feel they are destroyed if they remain in the Greek countryside. And while you carry the burden of this enormous responsibility, you face everything with incredible arrogance. And for everything, of course, it's some people, never you. Not even a trace of self-criticism! Haven't you done anything wrong? Ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Association, PASOK, DIMAR, supported and supported the farmers over time, and we are their best interlocutor. Together we have changed the country and the country, with the democratic party, in all previous years, together we will fight for their survival. We have, however, caused this debate not only to remain critical. We want to be productive. We want to be constructive. At the heart of our proposals it is our deep belief that substantial regional development is needed, so that we can safely leave the crisis behind, that we must direct the minimum resources we have in our capacity and in our hands so that every region of our country can obtain a development identity. The first line of this effort to develop the Greek countryside is decentralisation, but also the quality of agricultural products. That is why we have tabled twelve proposals for development against your twelve burdens, which are the result of a debate with the rural world and its institutions throughout this period. Proposal first: Income tax is progressively reduced, aid should be inappropriate and tax-free, the VAT on agricultural supplies and inputs should be reintroduced to 13%, the excise duty on wine abolished and an incentive to create new collective structures, with the return of 5 VAT units to organised producers. Proposal 2, To disconnect insurance contributions from taxable income and to facilitate the renewal of producers, for each pair of young farmers in the first five years will only pay one. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Proposal for a third sentence: To remain the OGA insurer of farmers, with the separation of the welfare fund and the deduction of other costs, not belonging to the OGA, but burdening him, and to establish the universal extension and application of the caretaker to all farmers, used by farmers, as another means of substantially reducing the tax evasion. And because you told us before that you institutionalized the bachelor, your counsellors probably haven't told you well. In 2010, the bachelor was institutionalised and in 2011 it began to be implemented. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Now it's about expanding it. If you mean you're going to extend it, we're with you. Proposal 4: To tackle red loans and the primary sector for a second opportunity for farmers and businesses in the agri-food sector and to establish an irresponsible account for both farms and businesses. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Proposal fifth: To introduce agricultural oil, in accordance with our amendment from 3-11-2015, in order to reduce energy costs, to support the expansion of RES into the primary sector. [[At this point, the closed doorbell of the speaker's speaking time hits the warning.]] Mr President, I imagine I will have more time, as the Prime Minister had.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u12	You have a comfortable time, Mrs. Gennamas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Sixth proposal: To implement specific rural land policies by distributing it to young farmers and scientists and to strengthen research and innovation for a shift in quality products and the production of propagating material. Proposal 7: Energising the control mechanisms - which is self-evident - in order to combat illegal Greekisation, the practices of harmonised prices and unfair competition and thus to close the gap between prices in the field and prices on the shelf so that both producers and consumers can benefit. Eighth proposal: In order to take advantage of all the possibilities of the CAP and of the CFP, for fisheries, for rural development and the country, all measures of the Agricultural Development Programme 2015-2020, a total budget of 6 billion, as I said, in previous years, must be launched. Proposal for a ninth European Parliament and Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations. Proposal for a tenth proposal: To provide a specific programme for livestock farming and livestock farming, with a view to substituting imports and increasing exports and linking the primary sector to tourism, so that we can make better use of local production, as well as export support programmes, through measures to promote agricultural products, by exploiting Community funding. Motion 11: The deadlock in the ELGA must be removed. Finally accept the amendment we have tabled seven times to date to solve the problem of staff moving, otherwise the affected will make black eyes to see the color of money! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Proposal for a twelfth: We are proposing the implementation of training programmes for young farmers and unemployed people in operating rural enterprises, with funding from the European Social Fund, for the acquisition of experience - which is the most useful of all - and the strengthening of all social infrastructure and education, so that we can stand alongside the Greek farmer, in order to feel that she can safely stay in her place and raise her children. Ladies and gentlemen, our proposals clearly cannot be implemented by this government. But political developments will not be long. The question that arises today is not when, but above all what will happen to the country and the Greek people, because the next elections must not be another experiment or another lost historical opportunity for the country. 2017 must be a year - a milestone for Greece, a milestone that will mark the definitive defeat of populism and finally return to a mature political thinking and action. There is no need for the location of alternating disposable saviors. Eight years after the unveiling that the unreasonable waste of the period 2004-2009 went bankrupt the country, few more remain in this place, who do not recognise that there is only a reliable way to leave the memoranda behind, the implementation of a serious national line for the place, evolving and based on three pillars. Firstly, a substantial renegotiation of debt service costs. After all, creditors owe this to us. Secondly, limiting the unreasonable surpluses that you have accepted and we cannot in any way achieve under these conditions and lead to a new dead end. Thirdly, a forward-looking draft of radical changes in the state and the economy to hit the distortions and causes that have led our country to the crisis. This national line needs a serious, strong national government of understanding, as we propose it, so that it can be implemented. Only such a government can be trustworthy, negotiate hard and substantiate its proposals, not just to make bargains to earn time in power. In the conservative circles of lenders we will not oppose so-called lionisms, but serious, substantiated, as I said before, proposals. And that's what all the serious countries who left the memorials behind did. See what has happened in both Cyprus and Portugal and Ireland. The basis for taking the next step was the consensus of the political forces. It is a real pity, ladies and gentlemen, after all these adventures of our people, our country, that Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis refuse to understand them. Mr Tsipras, unrepentantly politically unthinkable, is being pursued in a daily effort, which is not related to the needs of the country and of the citizens. His only concern is to sit a little longer in this chair, at all costs. If he can't trap his political opponents, then he's embezzling them. If he can't control the media, then he'll try to fade them. If he cannot subjugate the function of the independent authorities, then he will look to find a way to degrade them. But the country needs another policy. Finally, a progressive policy is needed, which will be able to embrace the medium-sized strata that are now poor and beaten more by all of this policy, which will be able in practice to support the weakest and, above all, to embrace the new generation and give it opportunities and real hope to work and develop in Greece. Our new national objective must be to keep our children at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gennamas. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-three students and students and two educational sessions from the 3rd General High School of Amarousio. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Please, the floor is given by the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Kyriakos Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot start my current position from yesterday's extremely worrying events at the Labraki Journalist Organisation. Because these developments, ladies and gentlemen, have also thrown down the last card of figs and revealed the moral nakedness, the ruthless nature and the appalling cynicism of this government. You have climbed up, Mr. Tsipras, to power, presenting yourself as indestructible, to those who would change the whole political and mediating establishment. Within two years you have evolved not only in the most unsuccessful government but also in the most ruthless, the most dangerous, the most authoritarian government the country has ever known. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] For months now you have been struggling to control the media. You proved it with the TV licence fiasco, when you tried to fully control the Minic Landscape with the Attica Bank's money, the pastures for guarantees, pressures, transactions and, finally, unconstitutional medals. Did you really read, Mr. Tsipras, the decision of the Council of State? Because judging well by what you said today, you probably don't understand that the Pappa law has been declared unconstitutional by the supreme court. You also tried to control the media when you went to drop "black" on the channels and the universe stood up against you. Of course, you're doing it today and with publishers. First you denounced them all as intertwiners. Then, Mr. Tsipras, you traded with them, met them in secret. Some were reconciled, they made their newspapers "Press offices" of the government. But others are blackmailing them, using their court cases. You used exactly these court cases to attempt to take control of the DOL, putting Mr. Mulopoulos as a siter. And I don't think you can say, Mr. Tsipras, that Mr. Mulopoulos was on his own initiative! He was your former congressman. He was President, until yesterday, at the Board of Directors of SAFET. Indeed, I would remind you that you had this man and the courage to suggest him as Vice-President of the National Broadcasting Council. That is your understanding of the independent authorities! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But now we are all aware, Mr. Tsipras, that your government has absolutely no moral barrier. You are the definition of interactive, transactional and methodological. You are a government dangerous to the country but also dangerous to democratic normality. You are a regime, which is struggling with nails and teeth about how it will be held in power. Mr. Tsipras, take the good hambari and you and your ministers, pluralism, pluralism, democracy are stronger than you. In your attempt to bring Greece and democracy to your small measures, you will find us across the street and your plans will collapse. Your plans will collapse very soon. And the only thing that will ultimately remain of this whole story is a stigma, a very heavy stigma to you personally and to any Member or any party that still tolerates this situation. Ladies and gentlemen, in a week of today, two years will be completed by SYRIZA's election victory and Mr Tsipras' rise to power. Today he can, indeed, rejoice in his achievements! Sometimes I hear you, Mr Tsipras, and, indeed, I wonder if you have any communication with the country, which you are currently politically leading. Ladies and gentlemen, who is Greece today? It is a degraded society in depression, a country in collective frustration, a government deeply isolated from the problems of the Greek people, without compass, without any plan at all for the tomorrow of our country. And all this in a global environment extremely unfavourable, with many national fronts open. Never in the last seven years, since the crisis hit Greek society with an impulse, the horizon for the "scan" of Greece was more dark. I begin my first speech to the House in 2017, with the joint statement that the situation in the country, Mr Tsipras, has reached the unprecedented. A veil of pessimism, catastrophic devotion and fear is today misled over Greece. Society is soaked by the poison of despair and vanity, it is closed to itself, and sometimes it becomes easy to do away with the paranoid theories of conspiracy. Wild overtaxation chokes every productive Greek. The real economy is squeezing. And the objectives of the budget on the development side are already evident that, at the rate you are following, it will be very difficult to achieve for 2017. And the dangers are enormous. The government's pretending he doesn't understand them. She still can't, maybe she doesn't want to separate the merciless reality from her convenient hallucinations. Mr. Tsipras told us in an article two months ago, on November 12, that the evaluation will be closed immediately, you meant on December 5, along with the debt measures, so that Greek bonds can then join the quantitative relaxation programme and so that the well-appointed growth can come. I am presenting the relevant interview for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, the Minister for Finance himself, Mr Chakalotos, - I do not see him being with us today - in a rare outbreak of sincerity just two weeks ago, he said that the consequences should not be closed, Mr Tsipras, the second assessment would be disastrous. And what happened since then is well known. The completion of the evaluation has been postponed to the best case in March 2017. May I remind you, Mr Tsipras, when should the second evaluation have been closed on the basis of the third programme? In February 2016. And the untimely completion of the evaluation makes the implementation of the programme more difficult, and all Greeks and Greeks understand that now. That is why when they hear that we are late, because you are supposed to negotiate, they are concerned because they know that they are awaiting new unfair measures and new unfair sacrifices. The worst thing they see is that very large efforts do not take place because today you have absolutely no plan to get the country out of the crisis. But, here we have arrived, we are not only at risk, Mr Tsipras, from the derailment of the programme. We risk reliving the moments of the tragic first semester of 2015. And while the Greek people have understood what damage is going on with your so-called negotiating practice, you continue the same motto. What's that? You negotiate with one eye on the creditors and the other eye on the components. And today you are still reading the wrong international connections. You don't know what you want. One you send letters to the IMF, asking for his stay and the other you take no paper, prejudicing his departure, to find out, of course, that such a possibility gives the hardest circles to introduce even more painful measures. And worst of all, you believe that time works for the country, even leaking some irresistible theories about the gods machine, who may somehow give a solution to the Greek deadlock, to find that every time you are late, the account is growing. But you can't hide behind your finger, Mr. Tsipras. Greek citizens know that there are obligations in the country, which are data and inappropriate. They're not time-transferable. The limits once again are exhausted and the cage is emptied out threateningly. We may, indeed, be able to ensure from the European Central Bank a few more months ago, to fruitize the benefits of quantitative relaxation by the end of 2017. However, the delay we are delaying, the delay in the recovery of the economy and at the same time, at the same time, we risk the loss of this crucial tool, of quantitative relaxation, which, with your sole responsibility, has been delayed two years to make use of it. And in the first half of 2017, not only will the fate of the third programme be judged, the country will also be judged after 2018. And here I want to be absolutely clear. Mr. Tsipras, I am now absolutely convinced that you cannot drive home to the exit of the crisis and to coercion from the memorials and most importantly that you cannot ensure that in the middle of 2018, when the third programme expires, Greece will borrow from the markets like all normal countries. And if Greece today continues on this disastrous road, at best - I repeat, at best - it will remain intact and dependent on our creditors and partners for a very long time, to the extent that they will always invest in a recovery scenario in the eurozone. However, this cannot be seen today as a given factor in European political ties. And the combination of an expected introvert into our partners' priorities along with a fatigue, sometimes an anger about the outcome of the Greek issue, may remove any prospect of further support after the end of the current programme. And such a development would be disastrous. It would lead to the revival of the Grexit scenarios, and that, Mr Tsipras, is the tragic dilemma in which you have entangled us. Fourth memorandum of undetermined duration or reintroduction of projects to exit Greece from the Eurozone. It is another proof that your own irresponsibility and humiliation facilitates extreme voices in Europe and not just those who want Greece outside the Eurozone. That is why, Mr Tsipras, today is more than ever necessary for political change. That is why, Mr Tsipras, today's request for elections is more timely than ever. The country can't wait any longer. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I can tell you again, so that you and your Members can hear it again and that the Greek citizens can hear it again. The elections are not a problem, they are part of the solution to the country's problem. The country today needs a government capable of implementing what the common sense and the will of the Greek people demands, the return to normality. The Greek people today require a government that will fortify the country's position in the Eurozone and make it an equal member, with a specific programme, for the reconstruction of Greece, but also with a specific view to the progress of the European construction. That's what all the Greeks want. There have been so many sacrifices in recent years. They are at risk of being dismantled if there is no political change soon. Greece urgently needs a bold national reform plan, which will create the preconditions for attracting significant investments, creating jobs and entering a stable cycle of sustainable development, and which will, of course, limit the enormous disparities that, unfortunately, your foreign policy has caused and gives opportunities to all citizens. This is our big difference, Mr Tsipras. We know very well how to bring investment and jobs to the country. We also have knowledge, we have the plan. And we've been prepared and we're determined to put Greece on a steady growth orbit. Societies - and this is the most important one, and I want to stress it - are mature today, to support a project that will go beyond and beyond the memoranda. A project involving critical areas, education, health, justice, public administration, security, a project that will bring hope and certainty to the Greek family. In 2015, the "SYRIZA experiment" not only failed miserably but made it even more urgent to highlight the one-way path of the radical reforms needed by the place. You neither want nor you can do it. You'll be recorded in history as a traumatic footnote. Your only usefulness will be the definitive - I hope - restoration of the totem of post-military populism. Because today, on the one hand, populism, hunger and irresponsibility are conflicting, and on the other hand, all the forces of reform, the truth and the necessary change that will lead the country forward. The forces of measure and logic on the one hand, with the forces of irresponsibility and failure on the other. And this is the real dividing line that exists today in Greek society. Faces, parties are judged by how they will be placed against this dividing line. Neutrality - do not be fooled - it does not exist and cannot exist either. And don't get tired of it, Mr. Tsipras - you have attempted it, I have seen today in your protagonism with a very angry and angry look - building false dilemmas once again. The dilemma is not on the one hand the proud fighters of the people's interests and, on the other, the representatives of the International Monetary Fund and Mr Shoeble. The real dilemma is whether you are compiling today with the SYRIZA - ANEL regime, the new interlocutory, the failure, the endless appointments or with Greece of creation, of work, of preparation, of hope and of truth. That's the dilemma, Mr. Tsipras! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And to tell you a little more embodied, if it is co-educated with Greece of every party caranika or with Greece of every young child who wants to know that if he works hard, he will have the right to advance in his life. In this controversy, every politician and every citizen must choose a camp. This concerns particularly parties, which in the recent past have succeeded and neglected political costs and despite their differences, have worked together to get the country out of the crisis. This race will be decisive for the future of Greece. I personally have no doubt about her final outcome. The New Democracy today is undoubtedly the strongest political power in the country. She is ready to assume her responsibilities, uniting the Greek people with a government of worthy and skilled, with faces and forces that may have different paths from us, but with which we will be united by common goals. Proud, modern, reliable reformist Greece. The time remaining, ladies and gentlemen, is very short. And before the country was found with the back wall, with the danger of leaving the Eurozone coming back and only an alternative to a fourth programme, we must now give the way out. Mr. Tsipras, finally stop hostage Greece and let the Greek people decide for their future. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But I'm warning you. Do not think of escaping, playing new games with election law. We won't allow you to do that. After all, you tried these a few months ago and failed miserably. The forthcoming elections will be held with the current electoral law and the next elections will be held by law, which the new parliament will vote by a large majority in the first weeks of the new parliamentary term, a law which will support all the forces of reform and responsibility. They are the same forces, which will guarantee stability and sustainable development and exit from the crisis. You will find out, Mr Tsipras - you will find out at some point - that within the rules of democracy it is also the smooth transfer of power. And thankfully, the country has sufficient institutional impurities to secure it. You'll find out, Mr. Tsipras, and lose. That's the way democracy is. Other much more important than you have lost elections. But they did not think of blowing up the country in the air, sinking it into lawlessness and instability. And to paraphrase Constantine Kavafi a little, if you cannot do the exercise of power as you wish, that's what you can do, don't humiliate her through the many moves and speeches. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the main item of today's pre-dated order of debate on the agricultural sector and the rural world. I imagine I will have the same comfort as the Prime Minister, Mr President. This is an area that has considerable potential and must be a key pillar of the development of the Greek economy and exit from the crisis, but which, unfortunately, has also fallen victim to a government that insists on overtaxing rather than reforming. It is worth pointing out that the primary sector's contribution to overall economic activity, despite the recession, is falling both in added value and in number, despite the fact that too many of our fellow citizens in the years of crisis, whether from choice or need, have returned to primary production. And here, however, the constant doctrine of SYRIZA applies. It's all to the worst. There is no sector of the economy, no population group that today, Mr Tsipras, is in a better state than it was at the end of 2014 with one - perhaps - exception of your party officials, who are feeding parasiticly on the back of the overtaxed citizens. In order not only to remain in the final findings, let us remember soon, what we as government did for the two and a half years in power, what you received, Mr Tsipras, and where we are today. What did we do? In order for farmers, too, to contribute to fiscal adjustment and to support the country's overall effort to get out of the crisis, we have sought a smooth and gradual approach to what applies to other social professional groups, whose profits come from business. An increase in the percentage of farmers insured in the OGA was sought. We had established seven insurance classes for farmers, and as Mrs Gennamas reminded you, because you did not know it, a bachelor for employees in agricultural production. It was introduced in 2013 against significant reactions at that time, the income tax for farmers based on the accounting determination of taxable income, which corresponds to business profits. A 13% tax rate was introduced from the incomes of 2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u16	From the first euro.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u17	They've been excluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u18	And without the subsidies. Nothing was excluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u19	Wait a minute. Don't be impatient.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u20	Please don't interfere. Go on, Mr. Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u21	Community subsidies from taxation have been reduced. Certain specific privileges of farmers have been reduced, such as the reduction of the VAT refund and the reduction of the excise duty on diesel for agricultural machinery used for agricultural production. With our policy we have achieved something important. At the end of 2014, there was absolutely no request from our creditors for additional measures in relation to farmers. What did we do, in other words? We have made it clear to the rural population too, that they too must bear some of the costs of budgetary adjustment, but in no way undermine the development perspective of the primary sector and disrupt social cohesion in the countryside. You, Mr. Tsipras, what exactly did you do? Everything you've done with every social group. You have promised everything, and you have then made a violent burden on them, in complete contrast to your election promises. I have here your government programme for the agricultural sector. At a level we are lucky that you have not implemented it because it has included too many failures, but it has also included a number of specific commitments, promises to farmers. I only choose some of them to remind you: Reintroduction of VAT on agricultural supplies at pre-mortem levels. Establish cheap agricultural oil. Reduced PPC tariff for the entire growing season. Setting up agricultural debts including deletion of part of them. Public agricultural bank. Removal of trade fee. Repeal of the advance payment of tax. Tax exemption for a five-year period to young farmers. You yourself, Mr. Tsipras, remember the truth about the farmers' carts in February 2013 in Boeotia? Let me remind you, then, of self-sufficientness. As soon as they're done, you were talking about the New Democracy, "the elections forget the words and the commitments and the saviours of the place hide behind the horns of MAT". [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You described yourself, Mr. Tsipras. You guys are hiding behind MAT bounces. Herodian Attica has been unaccompanied over your days. You, Mr. Minister of Rural Development, Mr. Apostleu, remember what measures you called tombstone for the agricultural sector? Not one, not two. Ten meters were called a tombstone for the agricultural sector. I've got them here. I'm filing it. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A few days later you swallowed it all and signed it all. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] That's the tombstone. As in every area you have pointed out everything and done exactly the opposite. You increased the tax advance from 27.5% to 100%, the solidarity levy up to 120%. You have introduced a new unfair inefficient wine tax. Really, how much money has the wine tax yielded, Mr. Tsipras? Can I remind you? You had predicted 110 million. You can barely collect 15 million. And at least I am glad that you have recognized your mistake today and possibly move on to abolishing it. But, of course, you increased the tax on domestic beer, harming a growing, extrovert, domestic production. You also included the parcels in the supplementary tax of HNPH and to save the outcry, you have given a temporary suspension for a year and of course you have almost tripled the level of insurance contributions from farmers by linking them directly to their income. You abolished the OGA and significantly increased the cost of production. The excise duty on oil increased by over 20%. I'm on my way. The refund of excise duty on diesel has been abolished and, of course, the VAT on agricultural supplies has risen from 13% to 24%. You have increased taxes and levies, which directly affect the competitiveness of primary production. They curtail the income of young farmers and are a great stimulus for investment. And that's all it was. The government leaves you with wounds everywhere. I will only give you two examples, but I think it is extremely important. First. Two of the most basic and most recognizable products in all the world's markets, feta and Kalamata olives, were protected by all governments. And you came to a night of negligence, at best, to give the use of the name to third countries. Secondly, instead of preventing dangerous zoonoses that destroy livestock, you are running after the problem when it has become an epidemic. And how do you respond to all this? The only thing you know about. Cheap propaganda to throw ashes in the eyes of the indignant peasants. I saw last Sunday a post in a Sunday's paper, pretty luxurious I have to say. I will not dwell on how it got out, how much it cost, if that is your priority, Minister, in the midst of so many unpaid public commitments. But I'm not standing on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u22	Quiet, please, the dialogue will evolve.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u23	I'll stand by what he says. And I put it in the Minutes as a reminder of today's debate. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why are you proud? That you paid the farmers? That you paid for the backup? That you gave 3.7 billion more than one billion of which is what you hadn't given in 2015, Mr. Tsipras? Why don't you say that? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] For the first time! That's all you need. Do not pay the funds from the Community budget! For the lies you're talking about, about the insurance, tax or the absorption of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme? And I'll come back to this. Filled with lies is your request. And if you have the courage, why don't you go tell the farmers, Mr. Tsipras? Go back to the carts, as you did, to describe the situation today in the primary sector, instead of being locked up in Maximos and in closed conferences and kicking out the cameras. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The primary sector is unfortunately, Mr Tsipras, a micrograph of your overall government failure. Instead of making reforms, instead of creating the conditions for substantial growth, for new investments, you do the exact opposite. What structural changes, really, have you implemented these two years that you are in the government? You have not even done what you yourself have committed yourself to in the third programme - which, I would remind you, brings your signature - to establish a strategy for the competitiveness of the primary sector. The country's new Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020 provides, in fact, for many measures and many actions and investments aimed at growth, but also for economic and environmental sustainability and for the promotion of the knowledge society as a structural element of innovative rural entrepreneurship, extroversion, employment and social cohesion. But even this important development tool, targeted funding and structural change, you have made it quite inactive, Mr Tsipras. What is the picture of the absorption of Community funds? According to data from the managing authority of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, a total of 5.9 billion funds have been committed for the period 2014-2020, but here they are, in particular, committed - look, they have not been paid, committed - just 485 million, just 8.2% of the amount available. That's the real evidence. Two of the sixteen measures have been activated, three of the forty-four sub-measures and three of the sixty-five actions. If you were to find a formula to serve your party customers, you would definitely have exhausted your imagination. But now that you have to do a job to get the primary sector ahead, I'm afraid you've left everything in their luck. But as I have said on many levels, it also applies to the primary sector. The failure of the government cannot be a failure of the country, because the Greeks and especially the Greek farmers and especially the young Greek farmers are fortunately much greater than Mr Tsipras' potential. Because even today - take note - against tax raids, against the tragic lack of liquidity, against the unacceptable low absorption of Community funds, there are many daily stories of people who invested in the primary sector and who have succeeded against all adversities. I will only mention a few examples, which I have collected from my tours on the ground, but I think it is worth mentioning in this Chamber. Peppers from Tymbaki, silk again in Soufli, Knives in Domokos, almond and sumad in Agios Nikolaos, aromatic plants in Velvet, honey with edible gold in Evia, mushrooms next to Kilkis, biological applelon in Elassona, rose in Rodopi, truffle in Pieria, hydroponic greenhouses in the tower, turquoise aubergine in Leonidia, fish farm for trout in Serres, organic olive oil in Elia. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Why are you laughing? Do these initiatives seem indifferent to you? I'm really impressed by your reaction. Instead of recognizing and greeting these nice business efforts, you smile. What can I tell you? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I mention them by name, because it is worth saying a great deal of good to these young farmers, who are investing in adversity, but rather as you have shown from your reaction, all of this is not telling you anything. But they prove something. They demonstrate that there are conditions, but what certainly does not exist is a comprehensive support plan for primary production. For this reason, and for its reconstruction, one more reason why political change is necessary is that a collective development and support plan should be launched, which will facilitate the multiplication of many small and large rural business efforts to strengthen the extroversion of agricultural products. We believe this policy and that policy will be implemented. It will be a policy with two main axes, strengthening the competitiveness of the primary sector primarily through reducing production costs and moving towards a completely new model of rural entrepreneurship. We will achieve this by nine specific institutional actions and objectives, which I will briefly present. Firstly, an absolute priority in encouraging the establishment of producer groups and organisations per product, as provided for in the new European framework, but above all as imposed by market conditions. Watch out. Today the percentage of farmers who collaborate is hopelessly low is only 11%, when in European countries, in the large agricultural producing countries in Western Europe is over 50%, and our aim is to draw closer to this data so that more and more farmers can see the great benefits of commercial concentration and lower costs. The cooperative law you voted on will be abolished is a monument of state. The associations will operate on private economic criteria, naturally taking into account the specificities of cooperation. See successful examples such as producer groups in Imathia, an Imathia which, as a sector, has become a global power to production, but also to export the industrial peach. These practices should be encouraged, instead of voting, Mr Tsipras, legal monuments of the state. Secondly, we are rapidly energising all the measures of the 2014-2020 Rural Development Programme, especially those concerning investment by individuals, farmers and cooperatives, and contribute to improving the competitiveness of products produced through rural education and innovation. Thirdly, we guarantee funds, loans and adequate funding for the agricultural sector, and that is why we need a completely different framework for cooperation with Greek and international banks and organisations for guarantees, for financing, for new loans and investments in the agricultural sector and we continue and increase the successful operation of the farmer's card. Fourthly, we promote the presence of the private insurance sector in the farmer's service to cover losses to producers, especially the damage resulting from climate change combined with the state ELGA and the PESA. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I know that any reference to the private sector is causing you a direct allergy, that is clear. It's almost self-proof. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Fifth, speed up and complete the land-use procedures by region. We provide for the use of agricultural waste and residues either for energy or for further recovery. Sixth, we link agricultural production to other sectors of the Greek economy, not only tourism and focus, but also to the cosmetic and pharmaceutical industry, the chemical industry and the food industry. Seventh, we pay particular attention to Greek ovine and caprine animals, where we have a real strategic advantage in milk, feta and meat, and we make use of the potential for the development of certified milk products, while tabling integrated action plans to support the viability of the industry, as well as environmental protection. At the same time, it is an opportunity to promote new trademarks of special products, which are produced in areas with special environmental sensitivity in our country, such as rice produced in the Axis delta, or in the catches of Ambrosk or beans in the Prespes. Eighthly, we are establishing a regular structured dialogue between the Government and the interbranch organisations of product producers. It is important to discuss as political leadership with all the links in the production chain, traders, processors, producers. Only in this way will we create real synergies, agreements, common marketing methods and business investment projects that are necessary for the development of each strategic product. Ninth, we are creating a national rural chamber in France's standards. The purpose of this Chamber is finally to assume the overall institutional role of representing farmers. It will be associated with the state on all the issues relating to farmers, with the priority of course the introduction of proper certification for the main occupation of farmers, so as to put an end to this phenomenon of the unresolved consultation of each government with each of the farmers' blocs. Of course, that's not all. As far as the reduction in production costs is concerned, we have committed ourselves to reducing VAT on agricultural supplies from 24% to 13%. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We have undertaken that we will abolish the total anti-productive excise duty on wine and, of course, that we will reduce the tax on businesses, and that is why in rural enterprises in two years' time from 29% to 20%. At the same time, however, it is very important to show good practices, which exist, and which can become the model of a new production model in the agricultural sector. I remember, for example, the very great reactions from your own space that the privatisation of the DADONI dairy industry in Epirus had then caused. I had the opportunity to visit her during my recent visit. And today, DADONI, despite the first difficulties, has become a successful investment, a successful example of privatisation, an ambassador of agricultural products abroad. However, most importantly, thousands of farmers enjoy good milk prices and have an incentive to invest in their livestock. Because if your own logic had prevailed, livestock farming would have disappeared from the continent, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I'm really happy to see innovative cooperatives, such as "THESGY" or "THESGI", who managed to join forces of Thessalonians and farmers and to become a modern model of approach, organization and implementation of the cooperative idea. And these examples and many others, which I very much insist, can be multiplied. How, Minister? With the immediate activation of measure nine of the Rural Development Programme, which provides incentives for producer organisation. I will not get tired of repeating that it is necessary to create economies of scale in the agricultural sector, in order to reduce production costs. Similarly, it is necessary for the Union to operate on private-sector criteria, as businesses, which will have to go through in the sea of the free economy and not as exclusive beneficiaries of subsidies or even worse state loans than banks, which will ultimately be charged to taxpayers' backs. You, so far, have not made a single decision to activate the relevant procedure. I would also like to make a brief special reference to the fisheries and aquaculture sector. In the farming sector, ladies and gentlemen, we are the first world power in cigarettes and sea bass. This sector employs tens of thousands of workers. It exports, if I'm not mistaken, about a hundred thousand tonnes of products per year. And the forecast of the industry is that we can double our exports over a decade. That means twice as much production, we hope for double profits and hope for double jobs. In order to do this, however, some basic steps need to be taken, such as speeding up the process of spatial planning and the areas of organised aquaculture development. Not much has been done in this direction. Critical, of course, is the integration of technology and innovation with a view to increasing productivity. For example, to seek investments in the field of geothermality, particularly in greenhouses and in biogas, which will significantly reduce production costs and in friendly terms for the environment. Today we have thirteen recognised geothermal fields. Unfortunately, investment is very small in relation to the possibilities available. Likewise, there are great opportunities for large organized greenhouses, which can have access to free energy and be highly competitive, such as the products they produce. And these are only a few examples of the enormous potential of the primary sector. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing with these comments. Our plan leads the primary sector away from a distorted subsidies culture, to a culture of entrepreneurship, to an extrovert culture. Our thinking should not start from the field, but from the shelf, the grocery store, the supermarket, the grocery store. And you know, this shelf is not only Greek, it's American, it's Chinese, it's French, it's German, it's international anymore. That is why the Greek producer must be treated as a creative businessman and this concept is based on a fundamental change. We need to move from the family farm model to the model of the rural enterprise, a company that dares, invests, takes risks, seeks and turns into crops and cooperative schemes that allow products to have greater sustainability, greater profitability, less dependence on the state. The state obviously needs to be a help in this effort, removing all obstacles, but also through targeted funding for education and know-how. That is how we understand the reform of the primary sector. The people who fight every day in the fields are a great wealth for our country. We'll stand next to them. We will stand alongside them not only in terms of production, but also in terms of living conditions in the countryside, schools, hospitals and infrastructures, all about the difficult day-to-day life of living in the countryside today, so that the children of rural families have equal access to all social benefits, but also to all opportunities to realise their ambitions. And if they choose, we convince them to love the Greek land and the wealth that it can produce again. We have the plan, the will and the executives to act on this policy. To implement, however, this policy needs a political change, the country needs a dynamic resumption, a pact of truth among all the productive powers of this country, clean words, measured words, not many promises, efficiency. We on this basis build competitive Greece, as we envision it. A Greece of sustainable development, competition and the competitive primary sector. A strong and proud Greece, optimistic, confident. And the sooner we start this effort, the better it will be for the country. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Mitsotakis. On this occasion, I would like to say that the great excesses in time are taken into account so that at least in the seconds at least we have very brief wordings. The first is that the whole of the parties' proposals are being tabled by the prototypes. The President of the People's Association Parliamentary Group - Golden Dawn, Mr Michaloliak, has the floor, but I would ask for a moment later, since those who want to leave the House will be asked to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, the Golden Dawn should be condemned for what it did yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u26	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, please. We are at a quasi-concession of the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they participated in the "Kapodistis" Educational Programme organized by the institution of the Parliament, thirty of the students and students and two attendants of teachers from the 7th Haillandri High School. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u27	Mr. President, convicted...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u28	Mrs. Anagnostopoulou, please. Today is a day-to-day debate at the level of party leaders and any party leader wants to refer to any issue that has arisen, so also to the events to which you refer, will do so in the regular debate or will not. Please, there is no question of an emergency procedure. You understand that. Here, Mr. Michaloliaco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who thinks, on the occasion of the screaming, that on the basis of the lynching by the pimps of the canals and the party of the political parties, the Members of the Golden Dawn will stop being next to the people and their problems, they are wrong! [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] The political deed you set up... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Mr. President, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u30	In school cowards, in kids...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u31	You're leaving, you're leaving.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u32	Please calm down, gentlemen! Mr. Michael, please don't create tension.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u33	I don't create tension.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u34	Continue your speech, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u35	Madam President, I am not stressful. The tension is created by those who remind us of Thanasis Veggos, who said "my clients". So you're saying all of you who have the NGOs for illegal immigrants, you're cut and you've got endless funds and you've let them out in the snow while you've taken money to put a container in. That's your humanism. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] But I did not see any equilibrium and there was no NGO investigation. On the contrary, the Minister responsible himself, Mr Muzalas, has also come out and said that it is not possible to carry out financial checks on non-governmental organisations. However, I would like to mention, in general terms, the political issues then, after dealing with the agricultural issue, which has brought to a debate on a pre-dated order, as we know, the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement, as it is called. Both its President, Mrs Gennimatas and the President of the New Democracy, Mr Mitsotakis, and the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, spoke on this issue. I heard you say a lot. However, I have not heard a word about the main causes that have become the Greek agricultural world in the current situation. I did not hear a word from PASOK about his ministers who went to jail for 'cocks'. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] I have not heard a word about the subsidies granted for olive trees, which were beyond Greece, but also Australia. I did not hear a word about the 'green' cooperatives, who plundered the sweat of the Greek people and the Greek farmer. I have not heard a word about cotton weighing together with tractors and subsidies. Nothing about all this! No word from PASOK or New Democracy! It wasn't them, it looks, in the government. I come to the matter of the pre-dated order of debate. According to PASOK's proposal: "Greek agriculture and livestock are going through a period of intense testing. The frustration is visible everywhere in the countryside.' Indeed, it is also a matter of concern to her party. It also says that farmers are suffocating because of tax burdens, a great increase in insurance contributions, oil and electricity costs, an increase of 24% in the VAT rate. However, she forgot, Mrs. Gennimatas, that Mr.Mitsotakis forgot to mention that all this was decided and was prerequisites for the SYRIZA memorandum, which everyone voted together on 14 August 2015, when the Golden Dawn, which everyone wants from outside this House, but the Greek people want it in the House, said "no" in the anti-national memorandum. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] After the unacceptable decisions of the government, Mrs Gennamas said, the cost of operating agricultural and livestock farms has increased excessively, thus acting as an incentive to increase production. Indeed, it is. Who's responsible for all this? We have now found a new word. It says that Mrs Gennamas in her request: 'The mixture of government measures'. What mixture and chumps of boobs? Here is the Memorandum, gentlemen, which you voted on, Mr PASOK and the New Democracy, which provided for these things. You voted on them that night of 14 August 2015. Acknowledging, he says, the very great economic and social importance of the agricultural sector coming out of the crisis, there must be immediate steps and reverse measures. Indeed. But these measures do not exist and are not expected to exist by the SYRIZA Government. I come to the question of agricultural insurance. Two Circulars of the Ministry of Finance have recently come out for the farmers' premiums, which really lead to despair in the rural world, which for us is the soul of the nation. The farmer is the patriot, he is the man who has his property, the grave of his ancestors, his homeland just next to him, who lives for his land, he dies for his land, he struggles for his land. And that is why you want to exterminate the rural world as loyally motivated instruments of globalisation. Because, for you, the ideal citizen is the resident of the cosmopolitan cities, the big cities, dragging out of the country, without land, and becoming a prey to either Marxist or neoliberal ideologies. So against all of these are us, the nationalists, the only of our own nature, some to defend Greek farmers. A farmer, therefore, with a net taxable income of EUR 20,000, is obliged to pay contributions of EUR 3,816, according to official circulars. And I come to the most clear example, where 2017's contributions for income tables - take note of -8.522 euros, that is, an income that is truly low, are estimated at 1,828 euros. The total actual burden will therefore be EUR 2,506. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. So you let him live with an annual amount of EUR 500. You're literally letting him starve. The tax burdens on the basis of both the PASOK and the New Democracy, as I said, are from 13%, which was, at levels of 22% to 45%, over five hundred and seventy-five thousand taxpayers who are not regarded as principal farmers. Here there is a given one that we need to see. There are people living in towns, they have a profession and they maintain their rural property. Should they be punished taxly or benefited? For us, they should benefit and not be punished. But you're punishing them. And within the framework of the punishment of the agricultural world we have the cost of oil and electricity. As of 1 October 2016, the excise duty on diesel fuel used by farmers increased by 65%. The increase in agricultural oil will contribute to a sharp increase in production costs and reduce the competitiveness of Greek agriculture. But that, of course, doesn't interest you. You bring garlic from China, potatoes from Egypt, apples from Chile and you send to the barren literally the Greek producer, whom you had a duty as the government of the Greeks, as a government that the Greek people voted for and defends the interests of the Greek nation, to protect him. No protection, though. And there is no protection, because that is what you signed and provided by our country's accession agreement to the famous EEC then, today, the European Union, the European Economic Community. In fact, PASOK is right in the matter he raised for the day-to-day provision that there is a significant delay in using the resources of the rural development programme. And this delay resulted in EUR 902 million from the previous programme plus EUR 62 million from the early retirement programme, which was never paid to the beneficiaries in 2015, necessarily transferred to the new, thus reducing the funds by 21%. Three years ago, ladies and gentlemen, the major reform was carried out, as you said, and almost all farmers joined the standard VAT system, revenue and expenditure books, with a tax rate of 13%. Now the rate climbed to 26% to 45%, in addition is the tax payment, agricultural electricity increased overall from 2014 to 2017 by 195%. It is clear that both you who rule as political parties and the European Union want to exterminate the Greek farmer and that in the interests of one of their own farmers, on the other hand, to serve the ideology of globalisation, which does not want nationally independent states, as a state can be, if it is self-sufficient in its agricultural production. The blockade which we have followed on the order of Brussels for exports to Russia is a tragular one. The Golden Dawn has said it again: it is to the detriment of the Greek interests. The sanctions and the embargo against Russia are anti-national, which is crucially affecting Greek farmers. You leave Greek farmers in defence on the mandate of foreign decision-makers. The Golden Dawn, unlike all this, resists and stands next to Greek farmers. We have reached the point on the order of Brussels to want Dutch companies to export our fruit to Russia via Jordan and Iran. And we lost two years of commercial roads. National production means national independence. I would remind you that the Government of SYRIZA and ANEL a few days before the announcement of the September 2015 elections voted for one of the prerequisites for the Left Memorandum. The package of these measures, however, has not only been passed by SYRIZA and ANEL. The New Democracy and the PASOK and the River voted. These measures concerned an increase in the rate of taxation from 13% to 26%, an increase in the advance payment of tax from 27.5% to 55%, that is, double, the abolition of the exemption from tax on subsidies of up to EUR 12 000, the abolition of the refund on VAT on oil for farmers, the increase in the price of agricultural electricity. The government of SYRIZA - ANEL has done all of this and is doing it with the votes of the New Democracy, PASOK and the Potami Party. It once again leaves the party, client state and goes on to destroy the land's healthy and productive powers. The Golden Dawn, unlike these national plans, which proceed on the mandate of the memoranda, believes that only if fields are sown and smoked, the regeneration of the Greek economy will come. Contrary to the measures imposed by the Memorandum of Understanding forces against Greek farmers, we believe that there must be a subsidy for agricultural production with emphasis on the remote areas, particularly Thrace and the islands of the eastern Aegean. We also believe in the deletion of the debts of Greek farmers. Only then will the Greek rural economy be pushed forward. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Of course, direct linkage of agricultural production to consumption and finally to the mediators' regime. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in Greece for many years there has been a cartel, a food cartel. Give a reasonable answer how it is possible for supermarkets in France and Germany to be cheaper than in Greece, to be cheaper in the food shops in Germany and France even Greek products than they are in Greece. There's a cartel. But this cartel looks like big interests that go beyond the Marxist ideologies of SYRIZA components and you can't touch them at all. The country will fall down on the rocks. Great god - Mamonas, I would say, not god - the euro, for which we must sacrifice everything. The Golden Dawn in the euro dilemma or Greece has answered: Greece. But it is worth seeing with evidence what has given us not only the euro but also the European Economic Community. Greece until the end of 1979 with official figures had sufficient agricultural products and even had a positive balance in the agricultural sector. Since 1981, the EEC has received the sum of EUR 100 billion for the development of the agricultural sector, and no development has been made. Most of this money was ruined in the doggies of the national streets. That's the truth. And then New Democracy and PASOK ruled. And he didn't do anything. But the Europeans have done nothing too. But why would they? It was in their interest that the Greek rural economy should be destroyed, and that is where they should feed the country. It is a fact that by the end of the 1970s we had food adequacy and now we have only 30% of them. Here are the imports of some basic agricultural products, which at the time did not exist. Pigmeat: Add 70%. Alera: Insert 70%. Introduction of cow's milk: about 60%. Insert pulses: 70%. We do not have the possibility for the Greeks or the legumes to produce. Introduction of beef: 80%. That is where Greece became the famous European Union. For the agricultural sector, Golden Dawn has specific proposals, which also exist on the Internet, for all those who say we do not have a place. I shall read to you briefly some of the fundamental proposals of the Golden Dawn, so that the Greek people can hear them, because of course there is no interest in hearing them here in this Chamber. Youth education for a return to the earth. Yes, a new agricultural ideal is a crucial point and a key point for national regeneration. Emphasis on remote areas. Promotion and protection of Greek products, not only in domestic but also in international trade. It is unacceptable to learn that even the Greek Army supplies food from Turkey or Egypt and clothing from China. In no sector in the public sector should there be a supply of products from a foreign country unless Greek stocks are exhausted. You must protect Greek products. You must protect the Greek farmer. Of course, review and regulation with a five-year grace period, write off interest and write off debts of Greek farmers and reduce VAT to 9%. You're not going to do any of this. You are tied up handiwork and with the famous evaluation you will be tied even more. However, it appears that the cube was first thrown down by the farmers in central Macedonia preparing dynamic mobilisations. In fact, next Saturday, January 21st, there will be a decisive wide-ranging meeting. I declare in this House that the Golden Dawn will be next to the Greek farmers, who are the last line of defence against the anti-national policy of the memorials. He'll stand by their side and not some others who betrayed their struggle with their tractor fieste. Golden Dawn will stand with Greek farmers all over its soul, because farmers are the soul of the nation. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] I referred earlier to the incidents that occur in many cities and villages in Greece, where in this way I want some 'convergences' of the NGOs, where hundreds of millions of euros are being made at the expense of the Greek people and also of illegal immigrants, they say that we will not be next to the people. Forget it. We Chrysayites are agitated. It is neither false nor slandering nor mud to stop us. We're not hostages. We're free and we'll be next to the Greek people. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] In our struggle, of course, we have to deal with a zealous para-state. And this was proved by the events of Veroia. A political party, voted on by the Greek people, wanted to inaugurate its offices. Announcements came out of all the parties. Here is one reason why everyone is united. From the JRC to the South, they're all united against the Golden Dawn. The party of political parties against Greece coming, against the Golden Dawn fighting for dignity, for homeland, honor, faith, freedom. And you've supposedly collected some democratic citizens - so the state television told them - who tore up the Greek flag before the police and no arrest was made. You have joined old methods of the '50s and '60s of anti-concentrations and indignant citizens. And because the Prime Minister said that he is willing to inform about the Cyprus issue, I inform the Greek people of this step, because from the pimped's remote windows I have no reason to say that we were not informed about the Cyprus issue. This is an unprecedented racism against the third political party. In fact, he had the courage to make a false announcement and to say that the Greek political world is like the Anastasiades. And I replied to him by letter to the President of the Republic: 'No, we do not stand up to Anastasiades'. And we're right. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] We were entitled a few days later, when we saw Anastasiadis at the International Conference of Geneva sitting in front of him a sign in which he did not write "Chairman of the Republic of Cyprus". You have all made him an avata for the dissolution of the sovereign state of Cyprus and for its conversion into a federation. But your plans will not pass. And I'm very surprised that in all the news reports of large television stations and newspapers, they said that the whole political world agreed. They were forgetting three words: "excluding Golden Dawn" or "excluding Nicholas Michaloliaku". That's how much these three words scare you? Even the blockade you're afraid to mention? Anastasiades failed. At the moment, it accepts the outcry of almost all the Greek Cypriot people. And in its failure you were all supporters, other than the Golden Dawn, who stood firmly loyal to national interests and said "No" to the plans of Anastasiades to transform a sovereign state into a confederacy. And we have in all this and the PASOK triumph that it will become a third party with Members' relocations. This case reminds us of the Lafazani party, which shortly before the September 2015 elections, so that the Golden Dawn did not take the mandate to form a government made a parliamentary group out of Parliament - Parliament was dissolved - and it went and took the order to form a government. And a few days later, this party didn't exist. He thinks the PASOK is going to become a third party. The elections, I believe, are not too late. The elections will come and the poll will show who the third party is. So far, the polls and the Greek people have the Golden Dawn party. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Go for evaluation and give everything. Gentlemen of the SYRIZA Government, the Greek people in a few months' time closes seven years of commemoration, seven years of misery, which brought no solution to the enormous problem of the Greek people. You should know very well that since these seven years, your two years belong, gentlemen of SYRIZA. Don't make the shareholders. In all other respects, we have seen reports on the great scandal, which employs American justice, NOVARTIS, where there are - says - cameras of talks and visits of ministers and Prime Minister at the offices of this American pharmaceutical company. I ask: why does the government not ask for this information? Why isn't Greek justice moving? We're gonna have the same thing as the Lagard list that Faltsini said in his interviews that there are political faces you never found? I conclude with what Erdogan said recently on the issue of Cyprus, that the troops of Attila will not leave the Greek Megalis. Take the news. Never Turkish army where he stepped in did not leave in a peaceful way. That's a reality. Never where the half came up did not come down without a real sacrifice of some people who vindicated their fairness. As I mentioned earlier in PASOK and the translations, which will make it a third force, I would like to read you a small passage from the book "History (Country) of the modern Greek state", page 361, of Vassilis Rafaelides - left, but an honorable script -, which reads: "But the famous Association of Centres under George Papandreou was a pure and uncovered American creation and I do not understand why this is artificially hidden. This has never been called into question. In June 1961, the American State Secretary for Foreign Affairs McGee came to Athens and with his amazing activity he manages to convince briefly all the leaders of the central parties that they have an obligation for the good of the place to unite." That's what's going on with PASOK. And why is it going on? Why then, in 1961? Because the CSR had turned out to be CSR. Now they're afraid that, in the cursor coming for SYRIZA, the Golden Dawn will become a Prestige and they're trying to create another situation. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] They tell us here, both the Government and the Qualified Opposition that the Aegean is Greek and denounce the Turks who question our sovereignty. In a few days, twenty-one years will be completed by the tragic, great sacrifice of three brave officers of our Navy on the rocky islands of the Imian. I call on the Greek Parliament - and it is a proposal of the Golden Dawn - a delegation of MPs from all parties to go to Imia to testify for a wreath and raise a Greek flag. Only then will we accept that Imia is Greek. [[Applause from the Golden Dawn wing]] Otherwise, you are following a slippery path of national flattery and the policy of grey zones. Golden Dawn doesn't believe in gray zones. He believes in a Greek belonging to the Greeks. It believes in a new Greece, nationalist, that comes through your tragic failure and the misery you have caused the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u36	The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, the indicted capital dough, which has just come down from the Step, which are accused of serious criminal offences - crimes, continue their dirty work and with the tolerance of police yesterday in Perama. Now they also put them with innocent children, victims of the wars and persecutions that threw them out of their homes, from their lands, from their homes, and sent them here, to be troubled themselves and to be troubled at the same time by Greek workers. Of course, they were sent here themselves to those who are internationally resented by the Golden Dawn, great interests, imperialist interests that create these wars, which create uproots, which create refugee and, where appropriate, strengthen the jihadists. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government, while once again stating that it will not legislate new measures after 2018, but at the same time already haggling with the European Union and the International Monetary Fund, increasing tax relief, reducing pensions, new agreements and commitments after the end of the current programme, i.e. the third memorandum, apart from all the anti-grassroots measures that are also prepared and agreed under the second assessment. Starting with this speech we want to point out that our people will not accept the permanent cutters in life and rights, whatever they have left, for the sake of a recovery of anemic and, indeed, the profits of the few. The fight against the politics of this SYRIZA - ANEL government, which is both political in substance and the New Democracy and the PASOK - must now be organised in the Memorandums, which all of them today are in a process of disguise, not, of course, because the Halloween - we have another month until we get to the carnivals - but they only do so to fool the Greek people once again. I mean, their old-fashioned sieve art! Ladies and gentlemen, a crucial issue that is currently considered and will determine developments in the region for many years, depending on how the Cyprus issue will be resolved, a problem of invasion and occupation of the northern part of Cyprus by Turkey. And if we insist on making that clear, it is not because the Prime Minister put it in his speech, but because it is not self-evident today for everyone and everyone. It is precisely because of this fact that any solution means, first of all, immediate withdrawal of all the occupying forces and abolishing the guarantee scheme. Solution means a state - not two states - united, with one sovereignty, one citizenship, one international personality, a common home of Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots, without foreign bases and without foreign protectors. The negotiations, as they are going on today, do not make us any optimistic. It is carried out under the terms of a diplomatic solution, as it is a phase of a federation that is not functional, it is a dangerous development for both the Cypriot and the Greek people as a whole. The JRC will continue and intervene clearly and directly, without rounding its seats, without rounding up any developments, to echo ears or to throw ashes in the eyes of our people, to slum him from the difficulties and from the negative developments, such as the other forces, which convey knowledge of the false optimism notes, who are not pressing in any reality or related, even to some strategy, as they say underground and not public, consistent negotiation. Ladies and gentlemen, once again in a year's time there is a debate in the House on the agricultural issue. We recall that on February 6, 2016, a debate was held on the problems and demands of farmers, at the initiative of our party's parliamentary group. It was the period when the farmers of the blockades met, the strikers, who are struggling for the partisan, the unemployed who are fighting the battle to survive, the self-employed professionals fighting with the lock put on them by others, the young and the young, the women of the people. At that time it was unanimous to call for the withdrawal of the tax law, this abortion that the government majority later voted on. The government, within the multi-day struggle and the blockades, was forced to discuss the specific demands of small and medium-sized farmers, which, of course, are still largely in place. The profit of tax, which the government had to grant, under the blocs' racing pressure - much lower, of course, than the demand by the fighters - is by deducting tax only on agricultural income, the main farmer's profession. Any benefit you took immediately only by increasing insurance contributions. You made a new invasion, with increases in advance VAT, fuel, coffee, etc. You know the farmers' demands and the reality that they are experiencing: Uninsured, unable to pay the increased insurance contributions you have imposed, with huge production costs from increasing VAT on agricultural means and supplies from 13% to 24%, from abolishing the refund of the excise duty on agricultural oil, with or without compensation from previous disasters, with low prices and unpaid production. And if we add to all of this the great disasters of these last few days, from the recent bad weather, added to the previous compensations that have not yet been paid to the majority of cases, without any rehabilitation, can everyone here and outside this Chamber understand the scale of the problem. You are fooling around when farmers ask for duty-free oil, as shipowners currently have. We need a direct reduction in the price of agricultural electricity by 50% for small and medium-sized farmers, as do the industrialists, whom you are also making new reductions in the price of electricity. You know that thousands of small producers survive with supplementary income, that pensioners of sixty-seven, seventy, seventy, seventy-five years old are forced to grow. They are not tax-free on agricultural income, and you are threatening them with 60% cuts in pensions, subsidies or both. Does the government not know that poor farmers are not taxed on their actual net income, but on the basis of the living evidence that the whole world has? That is what the government knows, of course, but instead of responding to it, it really makes farmers genuinely slander. He says a new race escalation creates a political turbulence. He's talking about motivated seasonal struggles, unknown demands and other plays. It is challenging to present farmers when as tax frauds, when they are more favourable to the poor, the unemployed, who themselves create capitalism, the system you serve and the policy of all governments and yours. But all this isn't new. We have been told by the previous speakers of these arguments in the same or similar words. All these tricks of extortion, threats, intimidation used them and used them by every anti-popular government. You say the same thing, as you say last year, ladies and gentlemen of the government, to the thousands of farmers who are struggling to survive, 'Come to discuss how and when to slaughter you'. Memorandums and the CAP are tools to speed up the removal of agricultural land and the passage of land and agricultural production, in the hands of a few capitalists who are active in the agricultural sector. Measures in the third memorandum that passed the 2017 budget, among other things, are burdening small and medium-sized farmers with EUR 92.7 million insurance contributions, when 60% of them are unable to respond to their lower contributions so far. Capitalists in this country are not burdened by governments because they are their own governments, they are governments of their own. All the burdens of the crisis, all the burdens of the memorials are borne by our people. Their profits, their deficits and their surpluses drip from his blood. Shipowners have dozens of legal tax exemptions, and they get oil duty-free for their ships, but the small and medium-sized farmer pays it expensively. You are in chords, the parties of SYRIZA's co-government, the other anti-population parties, from New Democracy and the PASOK to the minions, the judiciaries of capital, the slaves of the Nazi Golden Dawn, all of you, anyway, who have spoken so far. You are all demagogic about the importance of primary production, about the need - you say - of productive reconstruction, to overthrow the productive model, to the growth engine, and other things like that, which may sound good to some. You are mocking farmers, however, trying to hide that primary production within this rotten system is determined, ultimately subordinated to the relationships of the great trader, the industrialist, the banks, that is, what we say, 'the very capitalist way of production'. What and how it will be produced is determined by the incentive of profit. And not, of course, by the pursuit of a profit by the small or even the relatively medium-sized farmer and his family. That is why agricultural production cannot really satisfy the nutritional needs of our people, since it is produced and exported or imported products only for the purpose of capitalist profits, the profits of the big traders, the profits of industrialists and not, of course, the interests of the farmer who produces the entire Greek people. Profitability of these few is determined, for example, by the fact that Greece is currently exporting hard wheat and importing common wheat, which could, of course, also be produced here. It defines the restructuring of the cow's milk sector, which in 2014 led to self-sufficiency in milk at about 60% of the needs. That's why we import tens of thousands of tons of sugar and the Greek Sugar Industry has shrinked, and you're squeezing it out. The same is true of other products, with legumes, poultry and vegetable products. You say you care about local production while hiding that the country's productive potential is being destroyed because of this capitalist organisation of production, the economic crisis, the European Union, the unequal position of Greece within the European Union. In such discussions this is always the theatre of the absurd: you must agree at the same time to disagree, as was the case today between Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis. You are aiming to make the popular resistances, by cheating on all the so-called alternatives to philosophical solutions that you are looking for within the European Union, your wolves. With them, however, there are no such solutions. There's enough experience now. There has been plenty of experience since Greece joined the EEC in 1981, experience in converting the agricultural and commercial balance from positive to negative. With the policy of the governments of New Democracy and PASOK, the result was the destruction of domestic production forces. Hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized farmers, although subject to this, following the existing European regulations, the quotas, the bans on the CAP, the restructuring of crops, were eventually destroyed. This is the result of your policy. Traditional crops and industries, with raw materials from agricultural production - sugar, tobacco, textiles, footwear - and the dominance of monopolistic groups, particularly livestock production, the concentration of agricultural products, the production and marketing of foodstuffs, have been reduced. Of these objectives and these policies, the state deficits have been created, the insurance funds have been cleared and, once again, they are incriminating workers, pensioners, farmers for this. Soon, the so-called 'left' limits of the negotiations of the new SYRIZA government have proved very close, within the twilight alliance. He's not on the side of the small- and medium-sized producer. It only seeks to improve the position of the great Greek capital, i.e. the few eagles within the European Union, at most. That is why the New Democracy, when criticizing the government, is consciously disorientating to confuse the farmers as well. It does not tell the truth about the European Union and the CFP. It is a mockery, we say, the so-called opposition to the right - left, neoliberal or left-wing politics on the other hand. Many farmers may still believe that there is room for return in a few better days, as some of them were in the past. We can tell them, with all honesty, that this is not realistic. Already in life, every state policy of the Community has become increasingly supportive only of large capitalist or secondary production. That is what the new CAP and the various rural development programmes are. Gentlemen of the Government and of the other parties, the new Rural Development Programme, as well as the previous ones, for which you are concerned about the objectives of absorption, efficiency, extroversion, innovation, biological crops and others, are for the few. It concerns the commercial industrialists, only a few large-scale capitalists, because tens of thousands of euros are required to join them. For many - and again not all of us - we will stay the crumbs from the ghetto of the groups. For example, the twenty thousand young farmers in the programme are given from EUR 17 000 to EUR 22 000 over three, four years, although you know that this is not a rural household. By hand, you are sending them to the nipple of bank borrowing or abandonment of the crop, after the end of the program, as usual. The results of the 2007-2013 Rural Development Programme, EUR 4.1 billion, as you appreciate, are that the difficulty of survival has increased in new rural areas, due to an increase in costs. Young and small farmers left the programs. The rural population is still old. It has even increased in conditions of economic crisis, extroversion and profitability, particularly in sectors, only with a large concentration in the hands of a few, such as fish crops, in livestock, fruit and vegetables, bottled drinks, oil and olives. The rest, the majority, are in misery, poverty and debt. The farmer's card is basically intended to secure profits for the banker. This serves changes in land use, subsidies, ways of taxing contributions, etc. Finally, it depends on the cost of production, i.e. the fact that this is too high, while the sales prices to the trader are too low. This is because there are monopolies in industry, commerce, energy, transport, banks, which all together crush and undermine the self-employed, the small and medium-sized farmers. This means, after all, that what the JRC only says, clearly and clearly without fluorescents, that this is the state of big capital, of the urban governments in whatever composition they have, which, at the same time, literally shatter and bleed the poor, the small and medium-sized farmers. With all this, of course, it does not mean that the situation is a dead end. The JRC says there is a way out for all these people of the hard work of agricultural production. The JRC is struggling for the only solution, which is sincerely of interest to many against poverty, against unemployment and the dismantling, for the way in which our people will really be in power with socialised, these capitalist farms, the land, the concentrated industrialized means of production, the state infrastructure, the trade, with their direct integration into the central pan-national, scientific planning for the organisation of the economy, for development for the benefit of the people. We are talking about production, namely, to satisfy, first of all, all the great people's needs, the diet of our people, the production of raw materials for industry and the development of industrial production. This agricultural production will make use of all the productive potential that our country really has, our comparative advantages, in relation to other countries and territorial and climatic and know-how and industrial production, processing of raw materials, environmental protection and management of natural resources. In this will young farmers have a position with technical or scientific expertise, with genuinely good, modern working and living conditions, without debts and the daily risk of destruction, which they currently have as individual producers. The way out of socially organized production in a state or cooperative way no longer frightens anyone and nobody in this country and in other countries. In this society, farmers are placed through the Agricultural Productive Cooperative, which will have the right to use the land as a productive instrument, while reducing production costs by joint cultivation, by collecting products, by exploiting all state infrastructure. It is the solution which relieves small and medium-sized farmers once and for all from the banks, from the industrialists, from the big traders, from the taxes. It ensures rural income, the availability, concentration, storage, maintenance and transport of agricultural production, through this central state mechanism, which must be made, of course, with a certain proportion of production, in terms of products and protection, of course, from natural disasters. It enables our villages to acquire educational, cultural vitality, modern infrastructures of general education, health, culture, physical education, sport. The common future of many small and medium-sized farmers with employees and industry, trade, services, elsewhere, is really in the process of getting rid of today's capitalist property, the building of real social property relationships, that is, what we call a socialist economy. This economy, this society is realistic and listen to the proposal of the JRC, which is not falling too often outside, because that is where it is driven, not only Greece with the organization and struggle of workers, farmers, the whole people and the alliance between them, but all mankind. It is realistic, because it is of benefit first of all from the working class, the working people, the popular layers, the bio-cultural farmers, who are in the fields. This is the concern of this cooperative type of agricultural production, which, of course, has nothing in common with the various cooperative organisations, which we have known to date, with the contribution of everyone so far and of today's Government, and which we have heard from the Prime Minister, that he is interested in developing them, or of course the ones you promise of the new PASPEGES, which you abolished as a sinner, then and now you seem to be sorry and want to set it up again. Today's producer groups and cooperatives are prepared not to chase the very large fish at the very small, but to eat first of all the medium. That's what you're stable and unrepentant. The JRC supports the survival struggles, the demands of the fighting small and medium-sized farms, as well as the farms, the employees, the blocked scientists, the other professionals, the self-employed in towns. It opposes unemployment and its overall policy and supports direct claims and struggling goals. The JRC puts all its powers in order to get what they can today or even to block new anti-grassroots measures, farmers and other workers. It is a great conquest of last year's struggles, the Pan-Hellenic Coordinating Committee and its framework of struggle, the joint action of farmers with the working class and the possibility of a better starting to organise a new escalation of the struggle. On the 23rd of January, from what we have heard, farmers have given their new date to the roadblocks, to the rallys, to the mobilizations. The JRC, with all its powers, will be there and here, claiming, striving, by means of all means, to force the government, the state wherever the European Parliament, the European Union, can, as far as possible, meet vital requests from farmers immediately and, of course, open up through this process of organization, organised struggle, their constant struggle, the way to solve the problems, on the basis of the proposal that we have just tabled to you. In front of us is the way to the people's, social, economic and political outlets and prospects. The fight, of course, is not easy, it will be difficult. However, this social alliance with a strong JRC is a one-way path for real change in the negative correlation that exists today between exploiters and exploiters, a prerequisite for an economy and society based solely on popular prosperity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Kutsuba. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-three students and one educational attendant from the IEK Journalist Vineyards. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Vassilis Leventis has the floor for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u39	Good morning, Mr Ministers, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen. The Cyprus Summit was held and continued in Geneva. I told Mr Tsipras not to expect anything, because Turkey is Turkey! Unless some people have delusionals. Mr Anastasiades has the first reason. He conducts the negotiations and we stand as Greece. Be supportive as Greece. But the fiasco was for granted. How do we go to a session when we have not secured a elementary retreat from the other side. The Cyprus issue is a vital issue for national interests. If nothing has been done, why are we going to the session? Turks use each session for Greek-Turkish to make new claims. You know that. George Mavros in 1974 achieved a number of convictions in the Security Council, for Turkey. And when Karamanlis came out in 1974 in the elections - these condemnative resolutions were passed by the National Unity Government - George Black visited the then won the Karamanlis Constantine election and said: “God! Do not go into direct dialogue with the Turks because you cancel these resolutions. They want bilateral relations, just to cancel the resolutions and dance Greece in the bass." Karamanlis said: "For God's sake, Mr President! Will we go to bilateral?' It hasn't been a week and Karamanlis announced bilaterally. Sadly, even though we call him the National Admiral, if we sit and count what this Karamanlis has offered and what damage he's done, I don't know! I'm talking about the old man. For the new man, let it go! Just to sign 3% of Maastricht - we all knew it - and it went 16%, it had to be in jail. I'm sorry to say that. I say this because in Germany the Chancellor goes to jail if he exceeds 3% of the deficit. In Germany, they've made law and the Chancellor goes to jail. In Greece he took it as Prime Minister 16% and we're fine! And limos and price orders before Karamanlis for 3%, 16%! This is the younger's big offer! I'm talking about the old man we call him "National Admiral." George Black told him: “Never go into bilateral contacts.” And I said it to Tsipras, because Tsipras told me: "I will go to Geneva if the lower tiles have reached an approach." I say to him: "Don't go with Erdogan at all, because Erdogan will start madness, start for Evro, start for islands." I also believe - and I insist - that all Members of Parliament give three wages and start. Those who have more than EUR 1,500 pension or salary to collect from EUR 200 a month from everyone to order thirty F35 planes. This Turkish language only understands, according to Vassilis Leventis. Do you want the country unarmed? You're gonna take the blame, too. If it's the country unarmed, you'll get the blame.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u40	Shall we go to war?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u41	Not to make war. Then all right, let's stay stinky, get the Turk to come to Omonia to drink coffee. As you wish, your decision is yours, you rule, but you know any rulers, it also has responsibility, which is not counted now. It's measured when there's a problem. Something was said and written in newspapers about the electoral law, that the Prime Minister is thinking about changing the electoral law. I hope that this is a lie, because the electoral law attempted in this House to change it three months ago and we did not succeed. PASOK voted for enhanced and offered fifty seats to Mr. Mitsotakis. Does the Prime Minister have any evidence that PASOK's attitude is changing? If he has such evidence, let him bring it back. Then it's worth it. Then he says, he'll make 2% of the entry limit. With 2% entry limit there is a risk that a Turkish party will enter this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u42	You're getting angry now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u43	I don't have a dialogue with you. Let me talk. Learn to listen. At least, when you leave a Member, you have something left, you have learned something, because many have left parliamentarians and nothing has been taught.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Leventis, don't answer that, because we don't have unlimited time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u45	Yeah, I don't want a dialogue with the gentleman. With 2% we risk bringing the Turks to this Chamber. You'll make up your mind. Then it says about the break-up of the regions. When the regions break - even in Athens, which has forty and will take place by three, how long I don't know - the parties have to take the lead in the first division. In other words, a party in a region of ten Members, in order to get a Member from the first division, must get 10%. I think that at the moment over 10% have only two parties in here. The rest of the Members will come out the next day at noon completely random. I, for denying the distribution of large regions, do not do so because I have no profit, but we need to know the parties where we elect the MPs. And I see that in this Chamber only Mr Koutsoubas - and I say this in his praise - is against partitioning. Others say that the fragment is being cleared. What cleansing is it? If a congressman is a thief either in the Grevenes monodrome or in Athens, he will steal. It's hard - he says - to run an election campaign. How's the election match? Door-to-door? Is that how the election struggle is going to happen? I don't think so. We are a modern European country. The media are supposed to work on an equal footing. Aren't they working? The fragmentation of the regions will therefore make parties, apart from the two, not knowing where they take off their Members and they will be the lottery authors where they come out. She can go out to Boeotia, she can go out to Grevena, where she has the rest, where the logarithm is there offered, etc. I do not understand what they intend to do, especially when they are parties below 10%. Charakiri, they want to do it? But I don't understand the conversation. So, the PASOK is going to vote on the simple one this time? I wish. If you have such evidence, bring the simple one tomorrow morning. We as the Central Association, because we have been politically reversed with the simple analogue and it is a legacy from the time of Alexander Papastassiou, we will vote for it, whatever government it brings the simple analogue, and let us face up to everyone. We don't care. It is a major issue, because we believe that the country is turning a page and going to transparency, to reorganise political life. With the self-powered governments and the bonuses of fifty seats, even if the bonus was reduced to thirty seats, I think it is theft of seats. The New Democracy MPs talk - I sat and spoke to one - about 'governance'. He says, yes, the proportionality of the vote is worthy, but the prudence is. What is rulership? I mean, he donated the party to make a government. Do you know how much better SYRIZA would be if he missed the fifty seats? Do you know how serious a party SYRIZA would be today? I tell you SYRIZA Members as well. Do you know how much better party it would be, much more consensual, if it had only a hundred five, that's forty-five bonuses, not forty-five bonuses? And the New Democracy know how different it would be if it didn't hope to get as a first hundred forty-two, a hundred forty-three and he knew he'd get a hundred? Do you know how much more cooperative, how much different they would be, more democratic? These bonuses make a party arrogant, make it authoritarian, spoil power, corrupt it. The evaluation is delaying. The government says 'we are negotiating'. Mitsotakis said, "Get up, because time costs." Is this a matter of urgency? I mean, I see what foreigners put it. There's something. In other words, the foreigners, the International Monetary Fund, have said a maximum pension, mixed. Do you doubt it'll happen in a few months? Is anyone questioning this Chamber? I have seen a request from the International Monetary Fund that the insurance system in Greece cannot afford and the maximum pension should be 1,200 mixed. Is there any doubt she'll pass? That Tsipras - Jesus Christ - would be able to resist? Nobody. There's no way. Then, in work, Tsipras wants to restore some contracts that the House abolished in 2012. This does not understand that it is casus bellilli, why will others consider that at a time when you want to privatise all of this is an obstacle? I don't know. This is stupid from the point of view of SYRIZA calling for it, because it was a Memorandum of Understanding and the House abolished collective agreements to restore them now to the protection of trade unions. Will Europe be able to accept this when it doubts the speed or even if we believe or are there going to be some privatisation? I don't understand that. Therefore, the evaluation is something that conflicts, because then they say 'we do not accept after '18 meters'. But since foreigners have given bail by '18. If the country goes bankrupt in '18, what do strangers do? They apologise to their parliaments too. Until '18 the country is protected. Tsipras's signed a memorandum, right? After 1918, if the country escapes and does not have the surpluses, it does not have what it should have, foreign Prime Ministers will be apologise, accused, in their parliaments and in their own countries that they have done assessments, without providing for the future, of what will happen after the end of the programme. So, if we are realistic in this Chamber, we have to sit down and talk about everything and leave the sluts. Do you know why the Greek program lasts seven years? 'Cause the sluts started. Samara's champagne with the Zapeia, Tsipra's tsamboukas by tearing up memoirs. These aren't serious things. The other states left the Memorandum in the first two years because they did not have such a reasonable vote and affliction of society. Some people are accusing me of being with Shoeble. Do you want me to tell you something? Whoever, in other words, is in favour of Europe and in favour of reforms, is with Shoeble and the rest of you are patriots? Since, in the end, Shoeble's signatures are signed. After finally, the ending is "tubbing" in front of Siomple, either "tubbing" on the right or on the left. These are free wigs and I don't think any people will believe you anymore, namely, that you're negotiating and that you're going to achieve something. Both work and pensions and additional measures after 2018, we will all sign, or we will leave the euro. That's my place. We'll keep the tape and we'll see who's in this room. And I think we've made the mistake in the first place. In 2009 we had to make a national government of all parties and carry out reforms and in 2011 we would be out of memoranda. We afflict a people, people's life has become a nightmare by the magics of Samaras, Tsipras and the various who want to go out to the lambs and give false hopes to the world. That's my place. We'll hold, we said, the tape. Say a few words about PASOK, which opens up. He's getting people out of here and out of there. Taking MPs and especially apostates from other parties does not give a strong vote. That does not give a strong vote. Powerful vote gives to be serious and people to see that with new potential and a new spirit you are corrected by the mistakes of the past. PASOK took some loans of 210 million. Did he answer when he's going to give them? The New Democracy is so much more. Did you answer? You want to rule the country. Have you paid your loans or do you want to be prime minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u46	We answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u47	Anyway, I don't think it's dynamic not to take, to house distances. It's strong enough to be serious and responsible. I don't see that much. Not only in PASOK, to be honest, but also in other wings. I don't see it much. I have been meeting lately not to put the Centro Association's announcements on the channels. On the contrary, Mrs. Ghosts, Mr. Koutsuba's place them. The Centro Association doesn't. Do some people really think that this way they're going to destroy the Centro Association? You think so? I think something else. That you have a plan to present PASOK as a center in order to make a partnership with New Democracy. In other words, New Democracy, knowing it won't get 150, needs MPs. So he's taking care of PASOK. If you think PASOK is getting stronger with Yorgakis, then you realize that you are in complete error. Giorgakis brought the memorandum. When we said six months ago - because I, in general, as a man, am a centre-left person - writing as a union of Centres and finally writing to the parties of the centre, Europe, to the Socialist International, without knowing that Giorgakis is there, he called me to see me. I tell him, "Why do you want to see me?" It says to me: 'for the Socialist International, because I am President'. "My God!", I say and received over ten thousand fax and emails. But don't give him a hand! I said to him that I can't even make a date with you. Now, how will this man, this family, who appointed a million people to the public? Of course, they are not the only ones responsible for the bankruptcy of the country, but they are, in fact, certain that this is where it started. I believe that the New Democracy is simply making sure to prepare a daughter party to be completed. But you're wrong, that's the way it is. You'd better be braver, you'd better address all the parties honestly if you find partners. By building such things, however, you do not achieve anything. Until now, PASOK has fought the government. Now, he says, he fights New Democracy. Change strategy. So let them answer: If Kyriakos 142 gets caught tomorrow and he's missing 8, will he not become a government? In what sense did they go and voted for the enhanced analogue three months ago to get fifty seats? With the prospect of co-government. With what else? That way, with the enhanced analogy, they've lost seats. He's missing two or three PASOK seats, no matter how much he gets. We're talking about farmers. We should not talk about farmers and they did well in their speeches and Mr Tsipras and Mr Mitsotakis spoke very little about farmers. Do you know why? Because if the farmers' anger in this Chamber comes in, we will all be on the way. Farmers are ruined. Primary production no longer exists. The farm runs extinct. But the tax system, but the circumstances, but the way the OGA, ELGA, one, the other, the compensation, the way in which it was issued, all constituted a nightmare against farmers. The farmers used to go out on the highway, close the streets and give them something, half a billion, Andreas. Of course that was damage. It was self-confidence for farmers too, because the subsidies were basically over and their end was coming. The end didn't stop coming. These were tips like those given by Tsipras now, three hundred euros to save the world. Instead of giving it to the unemployed, who at least would eat some turkey, he gave it to those who had a little income. Why didn't you give them to the recorded unemployed? At least that's where I'd vote, we'd all vote. You gave it to the retired people, considering that the pensioners will vote on you this way. Anyway. I hear there has been a move by a number of Members of Parliament who have money abroad. I call on Mr. Tsipras to take an initiative for those who have money abroad to return them. It's incomprehensible. I can hear it everywhere. To accept that it's legal to have the money that some people have. They must be brought in, however, where capital controls exist, where the risk of haircuts exists, where all these risks exist. This is where the money will come. It's not moral to be a minister and have them outside. I'm not saying names now, because it doesn't matter. It is important that the Prime Minister receives welfare. Give them two months to bring them all back and make a statement to the respective office that the money that was declared there is in. I would ask you for this because the price of the political world has been very badly affected, to the point where we cannot go out. As for the number of Members, three hundred need three hundred in this Chamber? Are they so necessary? It's to be inside too. I would urge the Members to become two hundred, because if we compare the number of Members with the populations of other countries, they must be reduced. I'd say that a hundred and fifty is the right number, but because that's what it wants, so that it doesn't delay, this House, before it closes down, put the number down to the two parliamentarians. It will be in honor of her. Also, to make the Congressman's salary three and a half, instead of seven, take him in the middle. Please warmly. Unless you want not to be able to go to your districts. It's over and out. And I want to say something about pensions, why are they asking me what party the Centro Association is, a Memorandum? What party is it? I say, a minute, guys: There are three hundred thousand triple pensions, i.e. people get three pensions. I have asked to merge into one and put a ceiling of 1,550, which foreigners are asking for 1,200, but I say 1,500. A million two hundred thousand people get two pensions and I asked to merge into one. I have asked that the eighty-three thousand pensions of the rich should also be cut off, and that this money should be partially reduced to HNVIA and partly paid as allowances to the multitude, the disabled, the single-parent mothers. Why don't you do that? And there are Members who also receive parliamentary compensation - not to say names now - and pensions etc. Why do you keep these? What are you waiting for? Burn the house completely? Shouldn't we have a face to get out on the streets? Is that what you're waiting for? I asked the Prime Minister to come out and explain whether the election would take place by 20 March with a list or whether they would take place afterwards. All disguises, half-disputes, the Skourlet, the other way. These are not honest things. You need to explain to society. Because, you know what? Whether the elections will take place on a list or a cross completely changes the structure and strategy of the parties. How are we gonna make combinations when they're on a list? Or do you want in one day to surprise us and sit down and make combinations? Is that what you want? Are these moral things from a Tsipras, who pretends to be the Left? Anyway! I wanted to say two words about the channels. The channels in many places have stopped transmitting communications from the Centro Association. It is a parliamentary party, the Centroon Association. And, obviously, you realize that we will resort to where we should. I know, of course, that there is a plan for PASOK to be presented as a centre and that the New Democracy as a partner of the PASOK. The people will not let that go, gentlemen! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr. Leventis. Now, Mr Stavros Theodorakis must come to Stepma, who has the floor for twenty minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u49	He's got a sweet thing to talk to last. No one's interrupting to finish fast. I'll start with the news. It is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that the government is going to another track. After attempts to reach agreement with the complexion, after many meals, many coffees, many nights, with canalarchs, with publishers, contractors, with aspiring canalarchs and mediators, with pasture owners, she decided to take the case into her hands and she now takes over, with her people, the journalist groups. The resolution of the structural and economic problems of the Doll - this is the term - was assigned to Mr Moulopoulou, trustworthy of Mr Tsipras and President of the AUGIS Board. Take care now of some small, but important, I think, coincidences: Today, Mr. Psycharis, with a number of tax loose ends, passed the interrogator's door, after he first made the announcement that the band was handing over to Mr. Tsipras' trust. And yesterday, Mrs Durou finally commissioned the renewal of the Falcon Delta to Mr Bobola's 'Akotora' with a discount - what you complained of -53%. Mr Bobbollas is well known to want him to take over 'DOL' at some point. And the necessary contacts were made with the presence of government officials. And Mr. Tsipras is trying to say that it's not what you think. Sure. Because it is common for a government party to undertake to solve the structural and economic problems of a journalistic group. It has happened in Turkey, it has occurred in Russia, North Korea, Venezuela, in many countries - model. I fear, ladies and gentlemen, that we are in front of a governmental ritual in the media. With a lever for the auditing and prosecution authorities, based on the existing loan and waste problems that many journalistic competitions had, SYRIZA comes and undertakes to control and coordinate the media that until yesterday was cursed. The aim is, of course, obvious: the dream of every power, of everyone speaking with the same voice. SYRIZA S.A., now to the media. A new dimension in communication, a new dimension in complexity. And here there is one essential question, beyond the conclusions: How can one solve the structural and economic problems of such a highly indebted business? Who's gonna put the money on "DOL", gentlemen of SYRIZA? Does Mr. Mulopoulos have any hidden property? I guess not. Does it have close investors, or does it have a secret way of persuading banks not to insist on their financial requirements? I hope the reporters will find a way to respond, to resist readers as well. But what scope do there be for real resistance? A few weeks ago a citizen, imprinted on Greek society, denounced very specifically that for years - about two and a half, I think - he was getting black money from a man of Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Pappas. The complaint is clear: "Every month I went to Mr. Pappa's office, I took money to put Alexis Tsipras on the Internet positively." Now, because he did, of course, the soul of men is abyss. It's important that he thought about it, admitted it in public and waited - and we were all waiting - for a prosecutor to appear and ask for an explanation, see if it really is true or if it's a lie. We have also proposed, here in Parliament, that Mr Davarakis come to the Committee of Inquiry into SME loans and tell us what happened, that Members could ask him directly: when was this payment made, from whom, on what file, from what black fund? The government's majority, however, refused it. But the question, ladies and gentlemen, remains: How many did they get black money? What fund? Why can't one man in this country, in this city accept that from all over the Internet SYRIZA chose to fund a small site and all the others, who fought for Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos, boiling at Theodorakis and Potami - then it was very fashionable - did it for their mother's soul alone. We - and we've told you before - have a list of websites and individuals who are active on the internet without obvious life resources and we expect to start the investigation of the prosecutors at some point. I think your plan was old and simple: Check the information, guide public opinion and now do so by hiring the trolls to the ministries. I won't say any more about that. Information: Senator, here I am, and some other ministers. And those who can't control, intimidate them. Mr. Kammenos shows up here. Mr. Tsipras, the Greek people do not know what your agreement with Mr. Kammenos includes. However, he says that the hunting of journalists is done in consultation with you. Threatened and self-sufficient procedures and actions of millions of euros. I shall refer particularly to the attempt by Mr Kammenos of Andreas Petrolakis. He wrote him right-wing, which the whole country says about Mr. Kammenos, and he was affected and asked for 2 million compensation. Then he put it down to 100 grand. And in court - and here I want to get - he said that all these comments against him are made, because the strangers and Schultz in particular wanted him to be eaten by the Ministry. It'd be funny, it'd be laughing if it wasn't so dangerous. And it is sad that no SYRIZA Member has dared and dares publicly condemn Mr Kammenos's behaviour. I would, however, suggest to Mr Tsipras if he does not really have any involvement in the case - because Mr Kammenos says that he is involved in the case, that it is his intention to hunt on some people who are writing against him - that we all calmly give as many assurances as Mr Kammenos needs to stop having nightmares. If he is also required to sign a paper that will always be left at the Ministry, that he will not be thrown away either because he is a far-right psalmist or because he is on vacation in the Alps. Ladies and gentlemen, on Monday the Committee of Inquiry on the loans of parties and SMEs delivers its conclusion. And, of course, there is no particular reference for no one's political responsibility. So, all that we were talking about and saying here in Parliament about the interactive media triangle - banks - parties what were they? Was everything a lie? Everyone innocent and in charge? Where are the revelations by which you threatened your predecessors in power for sea loans and graceful arrangements? Evidently, the national consensus was initiated by the parties' loans. And I want to be clear, addressing all Parliament's wings, to all the parties that are in debt with the banks: their explanations are not considered sufficient. The question is this triple: Why did you get all this money, where did you spend it, and when will you return it? They are the answers you owe not to the House, they are the answers you owe to the Greek people. We shall now proceed to the point on which we have had the opportunity for our meeting today. I'll be in time, I think the only one. The debate so far shows that we have not understood how important agriculture, livestock and fisheries are to the country's survival. A few days ago twenty-eight rural bodies gave a letter to the President of Parliament, which basically mentions two things, that production costs are unbearable and counterproductive for the country and six million acres remain uncultivated by producers who did not choose production, but the aid. Clear, simple and clear. And that's what we need to find the courage to answer. Let me begin with the first, the cost of production. We are talking about taxation, insurance, VAT, oil, farms and we are talking as if they were separate sections. However, for the producer it is only one unit, one unit. It is the module ‘cost of production’. It is a large bag with 24% of the VAT on agricultural land within it - while in Italy for example it is 4% - and costs electricity and oil 50%, more expensive than in all European countries. It is costing IACs, producer accountant and certification, natural resources, water and soil management costs, as well as over-exploitation, as well as climate change. It has the 'rules' in it by traders and payment in twelve to thirteen months. Of course, this bag has in it, as a cherry, taxation and insurance. If we want the primary sector and processing not to be eradicated, we should, ladies and gentlemen, commit at national level to limiting farm VAT and the cost of electricity and agricultural oil so that we can reach European averages. It's an absolute priority. In taxation you have applied to farmers cost-benefit books, without being able to hit tax evasion and tax evasion. The result is to cut tariffs, especially those who move products through cooperatives or those who take their products to the industries. You'll also see the X-ray, orange, undisturbed, loads that go to Italy, Bulgaria and other neighbouring countries. So is the movement of wine in bulk. And the phenomenon will be expanded. The Prime Minister, as is unfortunately the case today, said today that we will see the tax on wine and VAT on certain supplies. The government has indirectly admitted that to date your policy has brought about an increase in tax evasion and an increase in undeclared work. In agriculture we do what we do everywhere. We exaggerate the lawmakers and thus reduce government revenues in practice. Greece your problem! Ladies and gentlemen, we must understand that the offer of agricultural production and aquaculture to jobs, products and revenues, are multiples of the country's narrow gross agricultural product. And the political system here in Athens must create the conditions so that there can be wealth in the region. Civicly important is the adoption of incentives and anti-motors for there to be strong collective schemes, producer groups and producer organisations. And the tax system must not prevent producers from producing. Overtaxing the wheat ends up in the country with bread imported and losing taxes and revenues from many other parts. We propose that farmers be taxed as entrepreneurs and not as free traders. We are proposing to strengthen research and innovation, with the cooperation of research institutes, to create a closter of innovation, with incentives from the state, funding, public infrastructure, for all standard crops. We must motivate young people to return to the countryside and to set up new people. Today - the figure is dramatic - only 16% of insured farmers are up to thirty years old. We must immediately establish a mandatory electronic register of traders of agricultural products - I am talking about traders - to try and end with uncovered cheques and have control and punishment. And the repayment of agricultural tariffs to try to get down and to be established on 30 days. We're going to ELGA, production insurance. This is a system of clientele, ineffective and cost-effective, which you have certainly inherited. We'll say some specific things. Accreditation of private agricultural evaluators is required in order to reduce costs for the assessment to be immediately carried out. It is necessary to modernise the ELGA regulation to adapt to new climate change data - it cannot, for example, beekeeping outside ELGA - and allow farmers to participate in private insurance programmes as well. Ladies and gentlemen, we need a direct guarantee of the agricultural profession. To clarify the conditions, the roles and characteristics of the main professions of farmers, the non-primary profession of farmers and the small farmers in the less-favoured areas. Everyone can be useful. However, each group needs special treatment according to its needs and offers. However, 'I am sitting at the cafeteria and I take a check' must be stopped, because it is first of all annoying the farmers who produce it. Conservation of the profession must be accompanied by the establishment of a strong and reliable body representing farmers. The debate on agricultural policy cannot take place in the blocks. And bring, I think, all the politicians of demagogy and populism a great responsibility. Because at times everyone has fallen into the lust of the tractors. And some people are proud of the green, red and blue blocks. Apart from the fact that politicians go to the blocks, get on the tractor and in a few months' time, it is time to come up with a national plan for agricultural policy at the start, mid-term and end. A plan which will also take advantage of the common European agricultural policy. The Ministry of Rural Development currently has only 62% of the responsibilities for rural development. A national centre for agri-food policy for the country's food adequacy must therefore be established to improve the organisation of agricultural production with a view to exporting at some point to compete with imports. We want a long-term strategy with measurable objectives, what we want to produce, who can produce it and how much we want to sell it. Greece cannot become a cheap rural country, the bulk country. Without high added value we cannot continue. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] I think I was quite specific and could also be more specific, but we choose to present our views - and we will do so - after a consultation we have been having at this time with farmers. I insist, however, that agricultural policy with slogans cannot happen, as can hardly happen in any sector. The rural world suffered from populism, demagogy, generalities, and customer relations. We must end up with the slogans, and we must release the giant of Greek agriculture, a giant that at the moment is with some huge chains in the legs and I think we can break them before the giant dies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Theodorakis. You have the professional experience that allows you at a certain time to say things. Be well. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House, and toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS", forty-four students and students and three teachers from the Sakharas Ilias High School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I would also like to inform the House that the Ministers for Foreign Affairs, National Defence and Economic Affairs tabled a draft law on 17-1-2017 'Building the Protocol on the accession of Montenegro to the North Atlantic Treaty'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I call on the Minister for Rural Development and Food to take the step, Mr Evangelos Apostlelos, for ten minutes, of course, with due regard for time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that farmers have problems, as do the other farmers in the European Union. That is why they are very much supported by the European Union with its only Community budget for the common agricultural policy, known as the CAP, and of course also by their governments with the special measures they take, since they are of course moving within the relevant regulations on their rural area. However, to our own farmers we must also say a truth, that at this time especially have fewer problems than many other fellow citizens, let alone when EUROSTAT's income figures show an upward orbit in 2015 and it seems to exist in 2016 as well. The figures of the Ministry of Finance themselves show this, of course, for the gross income declared by them, which from 4,87 billion in 2014 reached 5,28 billion in 2015, while from 2010 to 2014 there was a decrease of 12,1% in Greece. I will therefore present to you a relevant table, which clearly shows that in the thirteenth countries which had an income rise, Greece is in the third position and the other fifteen countries of the twenty-eight countries have a reduction in their income. I'm filing him in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above table, which is located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, because the text of the request for an earlier agenda debate is a general one, and because many of the positions that have been taken are intended to take account of the effort that farmers' ears can give, at a time when they are in the face of this year's mobilisation, I, as Minister for Rural Development and Food, have to be specific and substantiated, because above all, our aim is to protect the Greek farmer. Let us see what we have done on the issues that are emerging as basic problems in rural areas. Taxation. Mr. Mitsotakis said that I described on eve of the referendum as the measures requested by the institutions as a tombstone for the rural area. Yes, they did constitute a tombstone. But he forgot to say that he followed a referendum and the 'no' of the referendum gave us this dynamic to negotiate. This 26%, for example, was saying tax from the first euro on agricultural income to bring it to what we are all talking about today and it is no other than the introduction of the individual tax limit of EUR 8,630 or EUR 9,500 for an average family, where, of course, if we calculate the amount of aid, which does not appear as taxable income, we reach 12,000 euros. What did we find, though? I leave what the agreement said and we negotiated it and we go to the law that we found to apply in our country. It is Law 4172/2013 which taxed from the first euro with 13% not only the net income of farmers, but also the total compensation and the total aid. Do not invoke procedures that have not been applied. I am simply addressing the Members of the New Democracy - twenty-five Members, in March 2014, signed a question with the House and asked the relevant Minister why he did not get this regulation back. Let's get these things straight between us. So I will present today a relevant table showing what it is that we have put in place and what impact it has on farmers' incomes, of course, using the data that I can have at my disposal and they are no other than those that relate to 2015 that was cleared in 2016, compared to what will be done in 2016, which will be cleared in 2017. [[At this point, the Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I will only tell you the number, that 95% of farmers will be reimbursed to the tax amounting to EUR 66,70 000, which they have already paid. The rest, if you want - because these are issues which we need to respect a little, especially as regards the introduction of the individual tax on a business activity, such as rural activity - is unprecedented and it is indeed a conquest of rural space, but of course, this conquest owes it to the rule of the country by SYRIZA and ANEL. They claim that duty-free can be overwritten by evidence. But it is well known that the presumptions concern all Greeks, but we nevertheless consider the case of rural houses in mountainous disadvantaged areas in the direction of reducing their presumption by 30%. We must bear in mind that the agricultural car you are referring to is not in the presumption, so at least as far as the evidence is concerned, at least to zero is the cases where the proof of living is being applied to farmers. I'm on my way to insurance. I have said, and I repeat, that it was a historic day when a national pension for rural areas was introduced. There is a problem with the payment of the second half of 2016 contributions. It will be dealt with by their transfer to the second half of '17, which will also be able to connect them with the repayments of the tax advances. Ladies and gentlemen, last year's mobilization was dominated by the link between taxation and insurance. But that's what we did. We have linked both together and it has proved that the tax relief for farmers is 95% higher than their insurance burden. I come to the other issue that predominates and concerns the management of Community aid. Ladies and gentlemen, the logic of aid has been dominated in the rural area, at a point - frankly, because my contacts are multiple with farmers - and there is no meeting even with the voices of opinions against the European Union that does not end up in the incubation: 'How much do we get aid and when will we get it?' What did we do? We have ensured that aid is paid smoothly, even by building up all the old loose ends since 2007 and 2008. Historical record of payments. And, of course, there were old payments - don't forget this - but it must be understood by all farmers that this money, EUR 3.7 billion in this case, comes from a fund, to which all countries - members of the European Union contribute, and in this relationship, our country is won, because for the 1 euro it is given, it is multiplier. We are, ladies and gentlemen, one of the countries with the highest per hectare Community aid: EUR 500, EUR 260, the average of the rest. So farmers should know - and I am referring particularly to the farmers in Thessaly - that we would not have one kilo of cotton in Greece if we were outside the European Union. Let's get these things straight. Another thing is that we are fighting to alleviate the consequences of fines and charges, which the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK have reserved in the rural world and which, according to the opinion of the Legal Council of the State - our Legal Council of State - to avoid unpleasant situations in the future, which will deprive us of new aid, must be repaid. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, how he dealt with a member of the party who today called for my call to see together the issue, namely to resolve together the problem they have created. He refused, saying: "No, since 1993, the Greek state has not paid these recoverys. If we pay them now, the responsibility is purely yours', that is to say ours. So draw your conclusions on the management that has been done. Unfortunately, there is still such an approach for these issues. He said Mr. Mitsotakis for all those who said they were examples in the space. We defend them. It's not just them, it's others. We're supporting them. In fact, our support has a specific way. We are defending the promotion of their products on international markets through specific funding, which in 2016 amounted to EUR 150 million. The evidence already shows that the increase in exports and in 2016 is impressive. According to previous reports, out of the total of EUR 18 billion of exports, EUR 9 billion, that is 50%, are agricultural products. To be understood by all of us. However, we are also fighting within the framework of the agreements between the European Union and third countries, such as Canada and South Africa, where for feta, for example, it was planned that after the transitional five years, South Africa and Canada's 'feta' or 'feta style', 'feta feta', and we were able to commit the European Commission to the revision of the agreement before the end of the five-year period, with a view to completely abolishing the use of the term 'feta' for their white cheeses. In other words, we are talking about a total ban on the use of the term 'feta'. As there are doubts, I am tabling the relevant agreement that we have signed at your disposal. [[At this point, the Minister, Evangelos Apostolos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] EPHREMIDIS (CG). — (GR) Mr President, I should like to congratulate Mr Mitsotakis on his excellent report. 'We are promoting the privatization of the insurance of agricultural products'. I mean, solidarity goes, social behavior goes. The dominant doctrine in the insurance of agricultural production from now on is speculation, in the field of farmers, which we all really have to defend. So we made payments. Indeed, in 2016, which was a difficult year, we exceeded every previous year. We are coming a 2017 that, apparently, is very difficult. We have been damaged at this time, and even we have the great problem of assessing the damage. We have already begun the process of recruiting temporary staff who will go along with the existing assessors, so that we can compensate farmers as early as possible. There have been many damages, both in plant and animal production, and in particular in ovine and caprine animals. I am referring particularly to the sheep and goat farmers, because they have fought this hour in the rabbits that the snow had created in their tents to keep their herds up. In fact, we've also given an appointment tomorrow. I'll visit them in their units. It is absolutely our duty to support them. Responsibility of the site: Mrs Gennimatas and Mr Mitsotakis spoke of financial suffocation. Who'd they talk to? Those who have dismantled the agricultural faith have spoken, those who have given the Agricultural Bank. And we come in these difficult circumstances, with great effort, with many difficulties, to institutionalise the farmer's card with which we will actually have liquidity for a six-month period, using basic support. Have you heard the interest rate in the rural area around 4%? Honestly, I am surprised that we are trying to solve a major problem, let alone in the part of the investment, which has been in contact with the European Investment Bank. We are already preparing a specific programme related to the Rural Development Programme for its easier implementation. So don't you talk about rope in the hanger's house! Both Mr Mitsotakis and Mrs Gennimata in the Rural Development Programme were particularly mentioned. We, ladies and gentlemen, found in January 2015, one year from the start of this programme period, a programme that had been returned due to the inability of its first submission in July 2014. We also updated it with our own proposals and adopted it at the end of 2015. In one year of implementation of the Programme, its absorption is not what Mr Mitsotakis said. He's been misinformed. And if he wants me to send him the relevant evidence tomorrow. It reached EUR 650 million, namely 17%, which is a record for all the programmes up to now in their first year of implementation. Time doesn't allow me to expand. If I begin to refer to the announcements from the Program...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u52	Minister, another three minutes I can give you, if you like. All the rest of you get it together and say it in your dentistry, so we can close it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, there are too many measures and actions that really are not just breathing, but mainly tools to support rural areas. For example, the measure concerning agricultural advisers. A thousand geotechnics will be sent to the next five years within the three hundred structures that will be created in the province. With what goal? There should be next door the geopole of applications, the geotechnic applications, the geopole in the field, the vet in the stable. We'll do that. It is absolutely necessary because the rural area was abandoned by his natural counselor, his scientist. Finally, who is providing farm advice in the rural area today? The shops for the marketing of pesticides! Have we calculated what impact on their costs this process has on their cost? Mr Mitsotakis said he would abolish the framework law on cooperatives. Tell your partners that, too. Because the other day I had a meeting. We have taken an initiative and called for the thirty largest turnover cooperatives, to see what we are going to do with the framework law, but also to assume their responsibilities. They especially asked for our help. Because problems are too much. I have not heard Mr Mitsotakis mentioning what will happen with the great problem of overcompensation of the cooperative site, which exceeds 2.5 billion outstanding debts to the 'bad' bank, to the Piraeus Bank, to the insurance funds, to the public. How will these obligations be solved when there is at the same time the threat of the auctions of an important property, let alone the one in the rural area, which we do not want to lose? What are we going to do in the charge imposed on us, recover 450 million from the cooperatives in question, and threaten the European Commission? These are the problems. And we, for our part, have called on the cooperative organizations to discuss. Do not forget, too, that we have discussed and committed ourselves to having a joint debate on the positions of the parties on these major problems. As I said, ladies and gentlemen, on what we are doing in terms of a strategy for the area, I would like to remind the participants in the Committee on Production and Trade that on 15 December we presented our plan for competitiveness as it has been tabled to the Institutions, and at least what we have received from them was that there was, in particular, the parties in favour of the country's European path, a positive acceptance and we thanked them for that. So you see, we're making a great effort. The evidence already shows that the rural area is going well. Ladies and gentlemen, leave these tones for an area that our country really needs. Because it has the potential to be the tool for the country's productive reconstruction. We despite any problems, despite some institutional delays - we have no problem accepting them - have visible results for the rural world and for the countryside. Within two years we put another seal in the rural area, another seal in the problems of decades. In this direction, in dialogue with the actors in the field, in dialogue and in cooperation with the movements, the government will move forward and will consistently support farmers, agricultural production and rural areas. We reiterate to the farmers who are currently in the process in trying to organise the mobilisations: their point is how they will be organised and claimed. But there is also a society next door that sees and listens. In this effort farmers, as they had so far, must have the support of the rest of the Greek society as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u54	Thank you. Mr Chironi, Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u55	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I too should like to welcome the initiative for dialogue on the major issue, the agricultural issue, although I must admit that, with a few exceptions, this dialogue will probably disappoint our rural women and our farmers. I can quote an exception - to mention the good - the sincere position of the Head of the River that they are now consulting to make concrete proposals. That's an honest position, that they're now consulting to get out. Because the other things we heard, I'm sorry to say, but when we were students, we called them a "coseta". I wonder what farmers the President of the Democratic Association is talking about, because we are going back every day and going back and every day, we are not just going back now. In fact, we heard criticism from some trade unionists in anti-population, because we are going out so close, while at the same time some people here say we're hiding in the offices. No, we are out there with farmers, with all the producers and all of them admit - and the trade unionists of your parties speak themselves - that problems are problems for decades. It is not today's problem, it is not problems that, as has been said, have the SYRIZA-ANEL seal. I'm reporting some evidence to figure out what we're talking about. In 1995 - we are talking about the golden ages now - agricultural production was 11.7 billion, it was 8.1% of GDP. The year 2000 was 10.3 billion, it fell. It was 6.1% of GDP. In 2004 - we are not talking about a crisis - it was 9.8 billion and 4.7% of GDP. It was already half that in 1995. Over a decade, half our agricultural income in GDP has been lost. In 2008 we went to 3.2% of GDP and in 2014 we went to 3.7% of GDP, but of course, because the country's economy had collapsed by 25%, because from 7 billion the turnover had fallen to 6.1 billion, the gross value added in 2014. We're talking about a collapse. The destructive 2015 for the first time, the cigarette went to 6.7 billion and re-entered to 4.1% of GDP. So, to talk about periods, I would remind you that, in the period 2004-2009, our country's public debt almost doubled by 120 billion. Let's see what happened to that money? The deficit in these years has been 50 billion. They have been eaten by the state that you are now insulting, what you have built, the client state. Where's the remaining 70 billion? What economy did they fall into? Apart from these 70 billion, another 30 billion was the money that came from the European Union at the same time. So this is exactly the time when there was no crisis, our agricultural production has fallen by 28%. At the same time, our industrial production declined by 21%. This is your offer in the period 2004-2009, that is, the years that have not been given, nor the 'LEHMAN BROTHERS', nor have the 'harks' of Europe, which we say, come to us. It's been the good years. In the good years you have destroyed agricultural production. So let's leave the crocodile tears. I'm not saying that to give up on anyone. I've said it before. If we have to look for the reasons, we do not seek them to blame someone and become prosecutors. We're looking for them to find the right solution. Because when our own farmers and peasants tell us that the problem is old, that is what we need to know and know if we want to find solutions. I shall now refer to the cooperative movement, because everyone admits that today the only way to overcome the small lot and the difficult geographical relief is to unite, make producer groups and cooperatives. Do you know why farmers and rural women are hesitating, from what they say, right now? They look like they're afraid of their old negative experience. They think because they're afraid that if they get in, they'll get in trouble. That's what they tell us themselves. They're telling you, aren't they? So you can convince them that it is not the case. Because if you speak with them and not on the basis of what the literaries write, you will see why they do not enter and ripe for the trade union movement. It's not easy, I'll let you know. Because the presidents themselves, who have now taken over, who have no responsibility for old corruption, are now called upon to cover up past sins. These are problems. It's not that all of a sudden, with the magic wand, there's going to be a politician and it's gonna be a synergist movement from scratch. He wants a job to convince these people. We have to be close to them to convince them, to explain to them that it is necessary. Let us also mention some objective problems which have been forgotten in this Chamber. The farmers themselves tell us that today's major problem with farmers - and I am referring to the example of my sector - is stable facilities, a problem that is decades old, but we are on a very good road to solving it now, not to resolve it once. It's a problem that has a zero cost. So why didn't you solve it? Let's talk about the Greeks. Hellenism is not an easy problem. Greekization takes place in both the mansion and the slaughterhouse and the meat shop. It is a complex problem, a problem which some or some'subsidised' farmers have once said, who did not produce but receive subsidies. But the animal wasn't Greek. Because, I inform you, even in crisis situations, the Greek consumer prefers the Greek product, he trusts it better. He thinks he buys a Greek product, but he doesn't buy it. Because he buys it more accurately, but the product is not Greek but possibly Bulgarian. I would now like to refer to organic farming. Because I heard the wish, Greek products suddenly, in a magical way, to scan on foreign markets. I inform you that apart from feta and Kalamas olive and two, three other rare examples, some exceptions, Greek products are unknown to the international catalogue and to foreign trade. People don't know. No one would pay EUR 1 more to buy Greek instead of German sausage, because we have not managed to do so, we have not managed to put it in. If you want to know, to put it in, the first factor, of course, is quality, to be better than the other, tasty and health. Here, then, organic farming is the key point, which has been done for so many years. So I would like to inform you that for the first time in the programme we are putting 100 million -66 million for agriculture and 34 million for livestock - which is precisely for the conversion of the farmer who is not now a bio-farmer and who wants to be. There are, of course, the other 343 million, which is to preserve organic farming. However, let us make it clear that there is a measure of organic farming for the first time. It used to be just in the agricultural environment bucket in general. The organic product has hopes on the German shelf, it has great hopes. Can we talk about the Greek seed? May I remind you that it was once - and I see Mr Papadopoulos here - the CSCE, the Central Plant Products Management Agency, which gave seed of excellent quality to our cotton grower?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u56	All the seeds!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u57	Now all seeds are almost imported. You are therefore being cut for Greek production without Greek seed! So who abolished it? Mr. Mitsotakis' father dismantled the CSCE.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u58	Will you introduce her again?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u59	I wish we could introduce healthy bodies. If you read the McKinsey report, it speaks of healthy state agencies, because there are such organisations in other countries too. You want to go everything to wild neoliberalism. Can we talk about the dissolution of control structures? Suddenly you discovered that we have a problem with control structures. So I tell you that at the moment in Bulgaria - it seems that there they are prisoners still - they have thirty veterinarians only for follicular skin disease. Thirty to their ministry! We for all zoonoses had until recently a superintendent and there were two others. They went out to meetings and not to go alone, go along with the CEO and the secretary, to look like three, and not to be ridiculous. Europeans cannot believe that the work done by one is done. But you're still the tale of privatization. You want us to dismantle the state structures, demonize the employees. So tell me who these rural women and our farmers are going to address when they have a problem, when we want to do everything in private.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u60	Two years you've been in government!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u61	Tell me which country is going to make... Okay, thanks a lot for the joke!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u62	Ten thousand hires and no geotechnic!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u63	Easy, there's no dialogue going on!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u64	I will finish, Mr President, with the tool...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u65	No, with your comfort, finish. You can incorporate the time from your dentext, so the Minister can close in at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, you know, I'm consistent. I never abuse my time. You know very well that a huge pillar in the European Union today is the social economy. Let me remind you, then, that the bill for the real social economy, not the state-run economy, because you too had a social economy, a state-runner - is our Ministry and Mrs Antonopoulou who voted for it days ago. It is a huge tool at the moment for the social economy to help the agricultural sector. It's a very big tool. Please, please, and I am closing with this: do not get asthma because you have no proposals, suddenly discover and borrow from the Greens' programmes, because I have heard astonished about producer groups, organic products, Renewable Sources of Energy, biomass, biogas! In other words, we will make the biogas biomass and because you said it today as a dictionary - title in Parliament, you will come out and say it was your proposal. It's not your proposal! Spatial planning! They have been proposals since the 1980s, they apply to all countries, they have now become status. They're not romantic, they're realistic. You just didn't know them. So, as one of the old presidents and prime ministers has never discovered the phrase 'green economy', to say something, which in Europe is a common place, do not now put the Green Econ omic Programmes to me and present them to me for the New Democracy programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, would you allow a five-minute break until the Prime Minister comes and starts with the seconds? The Heads, apart from Mr Kammenos, who were not present, have first spoken. There was great comfort in time for those who wanted to get over him. Proposals were put forward by the parties and the debate was enriched. I hope that in the course of the course of the second round, in which not all the Heads will be involved, some will not speak - we will see that in the process - we will be able to hold all the material, which has been set up and, at the same time, quite soon - I expect it to be 17:30' - that today's sitting has been closed. Please, at a meeting we are waiting for the second reading to begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u68	Mr President, can we ask the ministers as long as we wait for the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Papadopoulos, you were a speaker today. Along with all the Chiefs and Ministers, your presence was continuous and fundamental! You are well aware of the issues, of course other colleagues. [[Mr Alexis Tsipras, President-in-Office of the Council, entered this Chamber]] Please sit down in your seats, ladies and gentlemen, to start the process of seconds. As far as I know, two or three political leaders will not participate. We'll see. I'm sure Mr. Tsipras, Mrs. Gennimatas and Mr. Mitsotakis will speak with whom we're starting. I give the floor to the Prime Minister and President of the Radical Left Parliamentary Group, Mr Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a great deal during today's debate on the agricultural issue. We have also heard promises in relation to farmers, but also unreasonable criticism. Of course there has also been a generalization on a number of issues. But let me start from the rural one, because that is the subject of our debate. From the New Democracy and the PASOK - which has called for today's debate -, however, the parties that also have great responsibilities because they have managed the fate of the place for over forty years and especially since the accession of the country to the European Union were those parties that had the responsibility and the distribution of aid and have raised the institutional framework that favoured customer relations and made the sharing of subsidies and created party friends and destroyed the cooperative movement, we have heard criticism today. So let me try to haunt and answer as briefly as I can to some of the things that have been heard. I'm starting with the truth about the payments. Our aim has been to solve the catastrophic problems in the rural area by the previous governments. So, from the beginning of 2015 we have paid to date - and this cannot be called into question - close to EUR 3.7 billion - EUR 3.689 000, in fact - for all types of aid. Of these, Mr Mitsotakis and Mrs Gennimatas - they are not in the Chamber - close to one billion, they have involved payments of aid pending since 2011. Then, as far as we know, the government was not SYRIZA and ANELs. You were the government at the time, you created the literature about success story. Why, then, did you not manage to pay this money to farmers? Why have you given up on the farmers at the mercy of God and now you come and give up on our agricultural policy? You forsake us because we gave - self-evidently says - what you have owed since 2011. Of these EUR 1.7 billion approximately EUR 1.7 billion concern payments for 2016 and not old payments. For the first time, a government which is disastrous, otherwise, as you have said, is doing what you have never been able to do, but what you have never managed to do: to give all the money on time and to pay the aid within the year, which is very important for farmers. You may be giving up today or not knowing it, but farmers know it. You know that, but you're avoiding it. At the same time, some 650 million were paid, which was a misdemeanor of EU funds commitments for public and private projects and investments pending from 2008 and 2009. And then it wasn't us government either. It's all right, though! We corrected that, too. You're ruining, otherwise! Investors and not only farmers know that, as you should know, because there you had declared a payment stop, but otherwise, you advertised your success story and your development policy. We didn't stay there, though. For the first time, compensation is paid at the same time by ELGA, which in 2016 amounted to EUR 144 million. Can we remind you how many he had in the four years from the ELGA? Farmers know that, they've seen it in their pockets. You should know that too. By the end of the month, as I told you in my prototype, over EUR 160 million will be paid, corresponding to the refund of the oil tax. Of course, I should like to prevent you from knowing this, but you will find out, like the rural world, in the next 15 days. There is one other thing, however, that the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis have forgotten about it. Of the EUR 617-620 million granted to the low-pension workers in the form of a third pension to about 1.6 million under pensions, about 250 million - the majority of this money, i.e. - went to farmers, to agricultural pensions. The percentage of farmers is much higher than 60% of the absolute number that went to agricultural pensions, because you realize that these people were taking and making pensions much lower, and our decision was that they should be allocated inversely accordingly. Our second concern was to alleviate the repercussions of the particular budgetary constraints resulting from the 2015 Agreement, which the vast majority in this Chamber had voted on, but today it lifts the end of the resistance. Our burden was on tax and insurance pensions and charges, but also on the benefits. Hold a few numbers just so you don't get exposed. In a total of five hundred seventy - seven thousand agricultural income statements, the five hundred sixteen thousand declared a net income of up to 5,000 euros, having established an average of 9,000-9,500 euros depending on the child's tax-free. What does that mean? It means that the vastly large majority of the rural world - much more than 85%, close to 90% - is not burdened. Where is the average income levy below what has been the case to date, or is the majority of the agricultural world being reduced? The answer, therefore, is that - what I said in my first speech - 85% of the professional farmers from the combination of insurance and taxation will benefit. But, of course, there is also a small percentage, I do not see the minority, which has a burden. There's a 5% declaring big incomes. Strangely enough, this minority belong, not only to the big - income farmers, but also to the large - subsidised farmers. There are indeed difficulties there, because in order for the figures to come out and a large majority to be relieved, there was a burden there. I feel, therefore, that for this small minority of the rural world you are coming here today to move our finger in relation to taxation and insurance. I do not claim that after tax and insurance, the large majority, this 85%, no longer have any problems facing or having any reason to mobilise or have no demands. On the contrary. However, we must say 'the figs and boats'. What was the policy that favoured them last year and the top issue of their mobilisation, which was resolved, and our promises made of commitments and actions? What is a series of critical issues that we have and which we have to bend together to solve, but given the circumstances? I say this because we are moving in a context, let us not forget that. Also, let us not forget that some people who did the farmers' representatives, when we were fighting the great battle, came here and protested and declared their participation in the referendum in favour of 'yes'. Don't forget that. At the same time, let us not forget that, with our intervention in insurance, we are saving a system that was under collapse - that is common view, we have all understood - because there would not even be a minimum pension for farmers in ten years. We have therefore saved the insurance of farmers from collapse, because some saviors have come to save us with the PSI! That's why we drove to the collapse. Don't forget that. Let's go down. Ladies and gentlemen, so that we do not start listing all the products in the country with comparative advantages per region and plundering with names, I will tell you that over the next four months programmes from the Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020 are being announced over EUR 1.5 billion. Some of them are already in public consultation. For young farmers, a programme of EUR 241 million of interest has already been launched with the EUR 376 million local Leader programmes. For organic farming and livestock farming, a EUR 443 million programme. For the processing and marketing of a EUR 250 million programme. For the improvement plans for investments in the agricultural sector, a programme amounting to EUR 357 million. For the purpose of providing agricultural advice, a programme of EUR 120 million. All the other financial instruments, liquidity tools, have been launched, and even those who are stumbled in compromise commitments, there is a battle to be disembodied. For what is possible, we are struggling to do and we believe that we will be able to do it. However, because some forget and in their attempt to become excellent for small-scale, voter speeches are talking about financial instruments and liquidity from the banks, I would like to ask you this: do you mean the liquidity that the Agricultural Bank could provide, which the Government of New Democracy and PASOK decided to spend overnight in a private one, after having made it available to you, among others, with EUR 240 million, loan and unscrupulously, by your parties? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Therefore, instead of taking this money to support agricultural production, you have smoked it in the pockets and funds of bankrupt parties and in election events. Farmers themselves know that stable demands and distortions of thirty and forty years are extremely difficult to resolve within a short time and there is a need for an overall debate on changing the production model and on our priorities in a national long-term plan for productive reconstruction. But, Mr Mitsotakis, it is a shame and exaggeration on your part to say that we are hidden and we do not dare to speak with the farmers. I was the first Prime Minister to invite them to Maximos - there was no other - in the middle of rural mobilisations. We didn't tire ourselves or tricks with the police. I invited them to Maximus, we talked twice, I went back and found them, some of them, we talked. Some of your mobilizations have been organized. Welcome are the mobilizations. We are not afraid of mobilizing and fighting the ordinary people. There are always set-up, but we are not afraid of that. That is of course what I have to say. I owe you a few more answers, however, Mr Mitsotakis and Mrs Gennamas, because obviously your debate has not just left on agricultural policy, and I have to give some answers. I heard you drop me off personally, Mrs Gennimatas, first, later you, on the issue of the Doll. Why exactly, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Gennamas, are you speaking? Do you want us to reason with each other? You want to explain to me why you're giving up on me, and what exactly are you asking for? What exactly is your request? I have not understood what your request is. For one and a half years now a historical and valid band has become at the edge of the yellow type and has targeted me personally dozens of times on the front page. It's one of those pages you sometimes like, Mr. Mitsotakis, to come here and show them. One-and-a-half year now in the House, one with Arkas one with some of the lyrics of Elytis and one with the editorial of the “Young People”, you come.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u71	I guess the deal's broken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u72	A newspaper has now been turned into a serious, reliable newspaper - with the arguments that we may have had - like your other favourite leaf, the other bearer of the one who caught with the black bags on the French-Switzerland border. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] It goes out every Sunday on the headlines against the government, so you can then make press releases, and there's a house in Switzerland, because that's where he lives with his family, with the money he's earned out. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Him, the bearer, your friend, Anastasiades, of Themos Anastasiades. Don't I say names? Do you have me for those who don't name names? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And you have the courage, and you come and speak? So this newspaper, history for a year and a half, makes me politically prejudiced on its headlines or radio shows, because it's a band, that I've had the house I live with in rent - I live in rent, you know - it's the house of someone I took from auctioning, a man who didn't have to pay. And no one came out to blame then. Or that I was supposed to give fakes anywhere you had. No one came out to blame then. That's a disgusting lie. Or that I have offshore companies. On the front pages. With this political bullying, the propaganda of those who came and brought us their headlines? To do the very simple thing, Mr. Mitsotakis and Mrs. Gennamas. To do the very simple thing. To do what all the previous ones did, to pick up a phone and get a banker and say, "What the previous ones have done for so many years, give you loans with air." But I didn't, and I won't! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And you know what? You're telling us that it doesn't matter that you didn't do it, but because a former SYRIZA MEP agreed to take part in the rescue workers' effort, we want to make a new complication and - how did you say so? - "North Korea". When your executives move from press and journalism to politics and back there, from politics to press and journalism, it is a free market. When our people do something like this, it's North Korea. These are the measures and the weights. A few days ago the former spokesman for the New Democracy press and Minister of the Government of Samaras, Mr. Michelakis, became Director at "AND1". Did we come out to say that "ANT1" moved to New Democracy? Mr. Psycharis' son was Mr. Samaras' diplomatic advisor when he was Chief of Officer Response and your later colleague in the chairs here. Can I give you any more examples? Mrs. Spirakis, Mr. Kapsis. Tens of examples I can tell you. But it doesn't make any sense to talk about it. To talk about the substance, and the essence is that the media have been going through a structural crisis for years, a crisis that preceded, I would say, the severe economic crisis to a large extent and because of the development of technology - because today the information has been largely on the Internet - but of course also because of the bad, mismanagement of all those who own it anyway were responsible. The credibility of the site is affected. The space as a whole is downgraded, acts more as a propaganda mechanism and less as a pillar of objective information and democracy. And that is a deficit for our democracy too. The worst is that with the sole responsibility of those who handled the economic, large and historic complexes, hundreds of thousands of workers are at risk of being pushed to the cliff. You know, me and this government will not direct me to the choices of any revenge, because it is obvious that there was no other Prime Minister from this complex, who accepted so much and unjust criticism. I am not talking about political criticism. I'm talking about the political bullying I talked about before. However, the bands with a historical reference to the place, the titles of the newspapers and the employees are something that is separate from all of them. And I want to say it publicly from this Step that it will be a negative development, if the NEWS and the "THE VIMA" close, as well as the "NATIONS", as was the "ELEVEROS TYPOS", as was the negative development that "ELEEROTYPTIA" closed, but we did not see many tears at that time. But here, we need to speak directly. Our desire may not be to shut down, but magical solutions do not exist. If investors want to support, contribute to the law, and as we can in the programmes that banks themselves have imagined are ready to discuss. But so far, there are no investors. The property, as far as I know, doesn't want to put money. However, the banks with "air" will not give up as long as this government exists. However, workers are also rightly asking for solutions. They ask that ways be found so that they do not close the forms so that they have liquidity. They ask for the duration of the winding-up - which, as far as I know, starts in the next few years, on the basis of the rulings of the courts, because the loans have been denounced - to be able to be paid, of course, on their part, requesting that the titles should not be devalued and that their commercial value be lost. We're in the mood to help. But I want to make it clear. This can't be done and won't be under the table. It will not be done by any conciliation, it will not be done in the ways we have learned in the past. And that's why it can't be only photographic or photographic or a band. And it cannot be done unless it finds the great consensus of the political parties, if not all, of the vast majority of them. If there is a cross-party will to create such an institutional framework, which concerns everyone in the press, we are prepared to discuss it. But we want to discuss an institutional framework of equality, which concerns all businesses in the press. Clear words, all open, all in light, only by consensus. We do not play under curtains, we do not make trades, and the entire Greek society knows that. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And then let everyone assume their responsibilities and let some stop shedding crocodile tears, that they are supposedly interested in the workers, because other things are sincerely interested in them. They're interested in communication games. So I want to go. I told you in my first talk to get a position on a number of issues. Get in position for the issues that concern the economy. You didn't call. I asked you to answer whether you would like more measures, as the International Monetary Fund calls for, if you insist that the restoration of collective bargaining, according to European regularity, is a left-wing idealism. You didn't answer. I hope you'll answer your speech. We need political dialogue to take place, in concrete terms, clean between the parties.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u73	And sometimes you challenged them and they didn't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Balaura! Please! What's going on? We're loose! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u75	On this point, Mr President, I would like to make a reference to some of the things Mrs Genome said. He referred to the need for a progressive policy - he says - to the place, because we do not practice it. The question, Mrs Gennamas, is what is this policy and with whom? Is that a progressive policy that you implemented, converging with the New Democracy from 2012 to 2014? Was it a progressive policy? Was it a progressive policy for Mr Venizelos' choice with the PSI to dismantle insurance funds and bond holders? Was it a progressive policy to lose 25% of our national wealth and identify you with the most extreme neoliberal and right-wing policies? To collide with Mr. Samaras' government with Mr. Voridis and Mr. Georgiadis? Let's see who it is. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Is it progressive policy that you were at the same Ministerial Council as Secretary Baltako, who flirted with the Golden Dawn, which even yesterday caused the Greek people, his humanity and his solidarity with the refugees and his values by going to a school in Perama to trample children ten years old? What a misery! You were with Mr Baltako on the same Ministerial Council. With whom, then, is progressive policy? But that's what you're going to tell me yesterday. The next day? SYRIZA has done everything badly while he's in the government. This is not the same viewpoint as European social democracy. That's your assessment. They open right and left issues, but you know, we have a attitude of principle and values. We talked about simple analogues, twenty - five - thirty years, we became government, and we brought it to Parliament. We weren't saying any more yesterday, and we did other things today. When the simple analogue to be voted on in the House came, the same bill Mrs. Gennimata had proposed a year ago with the signature of Mr. Venizelos, then you turned by the engagement and you were identified with Mr. Mitsotakis, once again became a "ura" of the New Democracy. So do not talk about a progressive policy, because you have responsibilities and these responsibilities are not deleted. We are here to continue a great historical tradition, both of the democratic party and of the Left, which has often been opposite, but many times on parallel roads, but have had the potential of a fundamental understanding of the country's course. You give it all to Mr. Mitsotakis. Your account. The world that follows your resignation historically, however, will not follow you in this tradition.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u76	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u77	Mr. Kegeroglu, don't think too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Mitsotakis comes here today and appears as the knight who will save the economy and the country. Really, Mr. Mitsotakis, why every time you come up to this step, are you referring to Mr. Caranika? What do you have with him? My partners are people of the people. They may not have taken Harvard out, but they are neither Papastavrous nor Christophores, nor are they "self-contained" gifts of this kind. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] It's deeply the class controversy you're making through your political reports. Finally, I want to tell you directly: you have a plan. You have had it in your first evaluation, and you repeat it in the second one. Your only plan is to 'Vasta Siomple and the IMF'. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] It will not come out of you, not because they will enjoy us, but because we are at a critical, sensitive geopolitical time in Europe and in the world and no one will bet his money on the socks' laundry in the European Union, because we are all sitting on the same 'clari'. Your plan is a disaster, to come and implement the most extreme neoliberal policy with sale, redundancies, demolition of a social state, reductions in wages and pensions. The dividing lines, however, have already been drawn up. We with the living forces of society, you with the state-owned entrepreneurship and with this arrogant, unsensory elite to fight for your rehabilitation, but the wheel of history has already returned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u79	Thank you. The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Independence of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Fotini Genomes has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Tsipras, I will start my second-guessment from the questions and the dilemmas you have put to us and I will conclude and conclude with the subject that we are discussing and on which we have raised the debate. You told us, Mr Tsipras, that we should respond to the International Monetary Fund and Mr Symble. You, with your right hand, invited the IMF to come to Greece and now you come with the left and allegedly drive it away, until you retreat, of course, before the wishes of Mr. Soible and the most extreme conservative circles in Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u81	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u82	So there is no point in this debate. Do you know why this conversation doesn't make sense? Because in reality you accept, Prime Minister, all the unreasonable measures which the International Monetary Fund demands, and the permanent 'cutter', and the collective redundancies and the reduction of duty-free allowances and the increase in VAT and the abolition of personal differences in pensions. And just what are you doing? Try to transfer them all for later, after 2018. To stay what? The veilers of the supposedly heroic negotiation. Well done, Mr. Tsipras! I have to say that I have to say 'bravo'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u83	Stop, please! Mrs. Gennamas, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u84	We have respected the Prime Minister and you are also due to respect the speakers, the Chiefs of Anti-Population. Well, please, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u85	Please stop!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u86	And not anything else, but I was just when I was going to say "bravo" to the Prime Minister and you are not quiet to hear why.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u87	Don't talk or think loudly. I said it before. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u88	So I said you did it. After seven years of sacrifices by the Greek people, the dilemma you bring us - and not only to us, which we are in the Chamber of Parliament, but to all Greeks and Greek women who are watching - the choices we have are the International Monetary Fund and heavy measures or the fourth Memorandum under the terms of Mr Soible. Congratulations, Mr. Tsipras! And what are you asking us now? Should we tell you what rope we want to hang? [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] I remind you you said about the PSI. Ask Mr Tsakalotos better, because in his draft budget he says that it was a positive development and a positive measure. Decide to say the same to your government. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] You are criticising us why we managed after two multiple elections, when you did not want to take the chestnuts out of the fire and you wanted to be untouched to come in better conditions - then you were still alive in the antimony of your life. So, in order not to be faced with non-existent bankruptcy, we have also worked with New Democracy and with DIMAR, I would remind you. You have chosen to work together while we told you: "Don't go to elections, take advantage of the great understanding that exists during the times of the crisis when a party has five parties and two hundred fifty MPs to support it", in the summer of 2015, to cooperate again with the far-right evacuation and Mr. Kammenos. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And you think you now have the face to criticize me? For the electoral law, listen, Mr. Tsipras. The proposal I tabled before Parliament has been tabled since the first day I was elected President of the PASOK. That was my view, that is my position, I support it because that is what the place needs at this particular juncture. I come to the issues you raised in connection with the collective bargaining. Not just, Mr. Tsipras, we have answers to what you're asking about collective bargaining...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u89	For electoral law, what is your view?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u90	For the electoral law, I have told you, and in my own opinion, and here I am, and I have caused you to bring our proposal...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u91	After we brought her!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u92	No, Mr. Tsipras. You didn't bring our proposal. And leave now these kind of beans to earn some more time in the chair of power. You won't find any support for us! Enough toys with the institutions. Don't give up on that. Well, I'm coming to work. Not only have we answered you, but we have first opened the dialogue with the social partners, we have tabled five proposals on labour and we have said to you: 'Take these, because the social partners agree, and you have a strong weapon in negotiating with our partners, to adopt them', but you have thrown them into the basket of unpurpose. And you now come here for reasons of impressiveness and say to us: 'Tell us what you are saying and that's what you're talking about.' And now I come to the rest. Mr. Tsipras, the show, "I'll chase the plot" no longer has any spectators. You come every time, I don't remember how many times you asked for a debate on transparency, on complexity, we talked about it, we talked about it again, we moved our hand, you threatened with revelations that 'now I'll tell you who you are all.' You told us some legislation, some laws, which we challenged you to abolish by a law and an article, since you did not do so with the memos. We're still waiting. You haven't abolished anyone. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] And every time we talk, you come here and at the end of each debate, you say: 'Let us say a word about the conflict, it is time'. Well, I don't think you're going to convince anyone anymore. And also, since Mr Pantalakis did not do his job well in the Agricultural with the loans he gave, why did you choose him and put him in the Attica Bank today? Something's wrong here because we can't watch you. Finally, after you have examined the parties' loans for how long you will move the paper to us, because there has been no responsibility for any political person. And from what it turns out, you were probably the ones who were asking to get funding beyond what was predicted on the basis of your rates. And if you hadn't taken the increase of these percentages then, because of the crisis, you'd probably go bankrupt. And don't tell us again about the loans and the finances of the parties, because we're the only party that brought in an independent accountant company and controlled, we've housed our finances, we've reduced our expenditure by 95%. When you do it, and it will be public, because our finding is in the hands of justice, then come and talk to us again to us and to PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u93	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u94	So I move on and come to the questions that Mr Mitsotakis has raised, because I have heard Mr Mitsotakis put his own dilemmas and ask for answers. Only you put the wrong political dilemma, Mr. Mitsotakis. The real political dilemma is not 'population or serious European forces'. Don't forget, Mr. Mitsotakis, that populism lived in both Zappeia and the Indignant Squares where you and SYRIZA jumped. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] The strategy for us was - and will remain - 'progress or maintenance'. But the country is at such a crucial point that the dominant dilemma is 'national understanding or national disaster' at the moment. That is what we all need to respond to, and that is what the citizens expect us to do. "Go away, you come" just keeps the deadlocks for the future. And I inform you, Mr. Mitsotakis, that polarization that you are serving all this time is water in the mill of SYRIZA. That's what keeps him, that's what he's after. And I come by closing down the issues we came to talk about. You didn't answer us today, of course. You didn't tell us that you had a plan for the primary sector. You have slipped into very critical issues that concern farmers. You have delayed the use of the CAP and the compensation of the ELGA. You are responsible for their financial and financial suffocation, the inability to finance the banks, capital controls and the non-regulation of red loans. You have increased the cost of production, taxation and insurance contributions, and you are actually in shock to farmers at the same time as implementing the measures from 1-1-2017. It is not true that those under the duty-free limit are not charged or paid. Since I do not have enough time, I set two examples in the Minutes for the truth. [[At this point the President of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Fotini (Phot) Gennamata presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] You are absent from market surveillance. You have reduced the competitiveness of the agri-food sector. You targeted the productive effort. You slandered the farmers and you are being abducted from what seems to be the rural world, because you do not account for him as being in your electoral clientele. And you do not think that it is the primary field of the country's effort to get out of the crisis. That's not all we're talking about. And it is not just the farmers who have not voted for you. Because they are experienced and supported by those who have voted for you and today are saying scooters. In conclusion, I would like to say that the only solution for the country, as I said before, is national line and national consensus. And because, it seems, with the power of the two present first parties, this is not possible, we claim the decisive strengthening of the Democratic Partnership to be the catalyst of developments and to help our country get out of the crisis and the memoranda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gennamas. Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Chief of Police Response, President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u96	Mr Tsipras, I listened very carefully to your first speech and I must say that I was amazed at the style that you adopted when you chose to talk about the issues of the current policy of topicality. I fear that, once again, your speech is characterized by courage and lies. Because it wants too much enthusiasm, Mr. Tsipras, you to leave New Democracy that it is subject to foreigners when you have signed for all the public property to go to the superstate for a hundred years. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It was you who would rip the memoirs. You signed a third programme, led the country to the edge of the cliff. Eighty-six billion euros has cost us this story and the delay in completing the first assessment, Mr. Tsipras, was the one that has led to additional measures and has also led to the notorious automatic cut that, as I understand it, you intend to extend after 2018 as a permanent measure of eternal austerity to commit the country and after the third programme has been completed. So you were the first to agree with the hardest demands of creditors. And since you want to make the comparison, and you have referred ironically to a reversal of my speech, which I have indeed said that we have a desire to reduce tax rates, while at the same time reducing targeted expenditure on our own initiative, I would remind you that the previous government, Mr Tsipras, has indeed taken unilateral action. But he did them properly and thoroughly. We reduced VAT to focus on our own initiative and five months after this measure became permanent. And you know why it became permanent, Mr. Tsipras? Because we have succeeded and convinced our creditors that their own forecasts of losses of VAT revenues were excessive and we were right. And we have proved in practice that the reduction of tax rates can help tax compliance and ultimately have a positive budgetary balance. So you did unilateral actions. And what did you do? After five days, not five months, you sent letters of repentance. And I would like to take this opportunity, because this is the first time that we have met parliamentaryly since Mr Tsakalotou's letter to the President of the Eurogroup, Mr Dieselblum, was sent to read two passages from this letter to finish here at last the fairy tales. Well, I read in English. I guess you don't need a translation. ‘As regards the pension measure’. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I imagine you understand that, Mr. Tsipras. Let me translate them for you. I'm sorry. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'll translate them later. I read in English... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] So I translate directly into Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u97	Tell them about us with a direct translation. You're a perfect language operator. Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u98	So I translate: 'As far as this benefit is concerned, please note that the Prime Minister and I have declared publicly and we will continue to state publicly that this is a provision given once - one - off payment - and under no circumstances will it become a permanent feature of tax reform'. What kind of third pension are you still talking about today? Lie, Mr. Tsipras! And today, lie! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And today, then, lie! Keep the letter, share it here with colleagues. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And you see, Mr Tsipras, when I pointed out to you in my prototype that other things you say inside and other things you say abroad, because this remark was quite accurate. And why this outrageous bilingualism is the one that ultimately prevents you from closing the evaluation and bringing additional, more painful measures to Greek citizens. Let me come to the questions that concern farmers a little. You spoke of a minimum pension of EUR 384. Since when will this be the case?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u99	National pension.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u100	National pension. Since when will this be the case? It shall apply from 2031. But you did not say that. It is good to point this out, too, so that you do not mislead the public who is following this debate. In any case, why, Mr Tsipras, all the associations of farmers and those who have submitted the demand for today's demand claim that the cost of production is, in fact, such that it is, in fact, non-economic to engage in the primary sector? Is it true or is it not, Mr Tsipras, that in fact all the raw material prices have increased, because you have increased VAT on agricultural supplies and because you have abolished the reimbursement of excise duty on diesel? Is it or is it not true that the insurance contribution in 2022 will reach 27%? And when you did your calculations and falsely claimed that 85% of farmers would pay less taxes and contributions, why didn't you say, Mr. Tsipras, that the contributions would grow from now on? Do the calculation of what will be paid in 2020, in 2021, a farmer, for example, with an income of EUR 9 000. Of course he'll pay less tax. It will, however, pay so many contributions that the final charge will be higher. That is why half the truth, Mr Tsipras, is equivalent to a great lie in your case. Once again, you twisted the evidence. With regard to the absorption of Community funds, you know, this is also a debate which is a little deplorable, because every time we come to these debates and people realise that everyone has their own interpretation of numbers. But you know that numbers should finally tell the truth. And obviously, we may not say it either, but it must be the most competent one, which is the European Commission. In a question to our MEP, Mr Manolis Kefaloyannis, on the absorption of the rural development programme, which was tabled in November, what information has the committee provided? The evidence was that we're second. Was there a miracle in the last two months? Stop mocking civilians! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We're in the last few days! Only Malta has a worse effect than us. Take them and see them. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Unless you've achieved some huge transformation in the past two months. I now come, Mr Tsipras, to your favourite point, the issue of the International Monetary Fund and the question of the closure of the evaluation. I have here in my hands the letter Mr. Tsakalotos sent to Mrs. Lagard on 23 July 2015, with which the Greek Government explicitly, through the Minister of Finance, asked the IMF for a new loan contract, "new loan capacity". So I ask you directly: Have you sent another letter to the IMF to cancel this letter, yes or no? For as long as you do not send another letter, the letter that is valid is that. You have asked yourself for the participation of the International Monetary Fund, you have not changed your position and finally stop mocking Greek citizens! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Close the evaluation. Why did you say, Mr. Tsipras, in September, that the evaluation will be closed in a few weeks' time? What exactly changed? What dynamic has been shaped differently over these months? Has anyone retreated from his position? Did you see any differentiation in the positions of creditors? I've never seen that happen. So, where did you focus your previous optimism? Why are you coming to say that some are asking for unreasonable things? You weren't asked before, Mr. Tsipras? Were you telling the truth in September when you claimed the evaluation would be closed soon? The reality, Mr. Tsipras, is that this is where you play one more theater. You are trying to safeguard a political chapter through artificial conflicts that take place at the expense of the country. Each time you repeat the same directed game and every time the ending is the same. The first time you did it, we paid Mr. Varoufakis very dearly. We've been loaded with a third memorial. The second time you did so in the second assessment, which had to be closed within two months and finally closed after fourteen months, as I told you, the cut came about. Remember, Mr. Tsipras, has the debate on the cutter entered the table at the beginning of the first evaluation, or has it suddenly occurred in April last year? So was it the price of the long delay and this particular theatre that you choose to play with creditors every time? The reality is that you have no plan to get Greece out of the crisis. You have no plan for how the productive economy can be rebuilt, and I think that was clear in today's debate too. I have heard nothing visionary, nothing really positive about how we will liberate the entrepreneurship of young farmers, about how we can give hope to all these people who are struggling against the difficulties today to produce, sell and export good quality Greek products. I now come to an issue which, in fact, if I were you, I would have tried in an artificial way to avoid. It's the doll thing. Aren't you telling me, Mr. Tsipras, and correct me if I'm wrong, did you make secret meetings with Mr. Psykharis, four numbers, with a cat before the elections? I didn't do it. You did it. If something broke down in sharing, that's your problem. It's not mine, Mr. Tsipras. So you met secrets with great publishers. It is not wrong to meet an editor, but to meet secretly and to leave them implied on various approaches, then, yes, I think this raises some essential issues. In any case, Mr Mulopoulos - who suddenly appeared at the forefront - as what appears? What exactly does Mr. Mulopoulos have to play in this case? Does he represent a large investment fund himself? Does he have any big fortune he wants to invest in the organization to save him? In any case, I should like to ask that. Has there been a secret meeting, Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Pappa, Mr. Mulopoulos and Mr. Psycharis last week? If you want to answer that question too. I do not see Mr Pappa here, but I would like an answer. I don't know, but it was written, and because of secret meetings we've learned lots of things, it's good to make it clear what the context of government involvement is in the possible salvation of a publishing complex. Because, indeed, you are right to say that this company has major economic problems and, obviously, if there is no investor who will invest a lot of money, this company will probably not survive. This is certainly painful and traumatic for workers. However, I did not understand what you said here, that, if there is some kind of cross-party consensus, we can find a framework that applies to all companies with corresponding problems. I would like you to explain that a little more. Because if we are to recharge the company's debts on the backs of Greek taxpayers, we will not be taking part, Mr Tsipras. Forget it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u101	Quiet, please! Listen carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u102	I was impressed, and I must say that I felt, Mr. Tsipras, a little emotional sketch when you spoke with a shaky voice about the workers in the Doll. The workers in the channels, when you closed them, you didn't think about them, Mr. Tsipras! Then I didn't see the same emotional interest when you wanted to close the channels.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u103	You're the ones who booked the channel.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u104	You shut down ERT. You fired three thousand workers. Who did this? Your refreshment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u105	Please. Please. Put that tone of your voice down!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u106	Please, Mr. Triantafylides, you have no reason to speak. Mr President, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u107	I close, Mr Tsipras, with your favourite subject, which you want every time we find ourselves in the public debate. Repeat once again a great lie, that the New Democracy, when it comes to power, will make fires in the public. We are going to have a detailed debate at some point - because we have also tabled a topical question - on the huge frustrations of contractors, launched by your own government and responsible for which there are responsibilities, Mr Tsipras. And these responsibilities will be attributed when the time comes. You have no doubt about that. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Be careful, I warn you not to ignore decisions of the Ice Bay, do not interfere with the Court of Auditors, as your ministers do, by giving guidelines which are inconsistent with Article 103 of the Constitution, which explicitly prohibits the permanentisation of public contractors. I repeat...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u108	You did the same...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u109	You're welcome, Mrs. Gara.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u110	You were Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u111	Mrs. Gara, please, don't make me name myself. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u112	I repeat, and I close with it. Dismissals won't be done by New Democracy. But...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u113	Be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u114	There will be a redundancies, Mr. Tsipras. And this will be yours from the Greek mandated people! This dismissal will take place and will take place very soon!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u115	Thank you. Mr Vassilis Leventis, the President of the Group of the European Central Bank, has the floor. Mr. Koutsubas and Mr. Michalokou will not give a second answer. Mr. Cammenos hadn't taken the lead because he's in America on a government mission. Then, perhaps, Mr Theodorakis will also speak and we will close with the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u116	The Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u117	The Prime Minister has tritology at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u118	Will the Prime Minister answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u119	As far as I know, yes. What to tell you, that's what typically says. Mr. Leventis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, Mr Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen, I see the warmth with which the Syrians applauded Mr Tsipras and the neo-democrats, Mr Mitsotakis, as popular heroes, who at the time you applauded them - those who applauded them - said the vultures of the other side, that is, who stole from there, who did from there, and who applauded them. You seem to have forgotten that there are cameras and people see that the applause is not about solving a problem, but about whether there are thieves from there or corrupted by anyone here. At some point in his prototype, Mr. Tsipras said: "What do you want to come, Mr. Mitsotakis, when he has become a cemetery, when everything is dissolved, to do what?" I didn't understand that. Is it Mr. Tsipras' confession that he's doing all of this to a cemetery? Because what he said was: "When you will come, Mr. Mitsotakis, in such a picture that you will come to rule, do what, since I will have done all of it."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u121	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u122	In any case, all right, Mr Balaura, it is not nice things to say in the Chamber and to listen to the world 'you will come when I have ruined everything'. That's not a nice thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u123	I barely did. On the contrary, he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u124	Mr. Balaura, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Mitsotakis wants to make the reformer. No objections. Anyone can do whatever they want. However, when he was in the Ministry of Administrative Reform, neither bureaucracy hit either electronic interconnected the ministries nor slowed down located. Just a few thousand people pushed them into various agencies and they were slow-wage too. Maybe in the oldest place some people were working, offering some results. I met some in the museums - I told you before - on various services and asked them: 'What are you doing here?' And they said to me: "I have three more years to finish, because they brought us here from OSE, Mr. Leventis." We're not talking about one, two and five. They read newspapers and smoked hundreds of people in a service. So what is it like to be a reformer, when neither bureaucracy hit either the electronic interconnection of the ministries has it succeeded or the slow payoff has it displaced? In other words, "I, Mr. Leventis, went there, in this part of the public sector, in the CEC, to three municipalities and sent out those who sat down and paid for at the expense of society". I see in this Chamber there is an axe against the government, to tell the truth. And Mrs Gennimatas, in other words, with her speech, I saw that she only turned against Mr. Tsipras. Is that the only one who's to blame? When she made a memorial with Samaras, were those memorials all right? They didn't get pensions? Because I told you that I was visited by a general in my office and he told me that he was taking 2,800 euros. Samaras and Venizelos and Giorgakis took them to 1,300 euros and Tsipras at 1,050 euros. Of course, they are both in the same direction to “walk up”. So, was the oldest memoirs nice, and this is where they messed up and smelled? With ease Mr Mitsotakis said at some point that he would cut the tax out of the wine, cut the VAT, cut it off, cut it more. How's he gonna do it? What's he gonna tell strangers? And they're going to tell him "go"? These are ridiculous things that reduce the credibility of the whole political life. If you have to, in other words, get the authority to lie, be discounted liars, it's bad. That's why young people don't deal with commons at all. The other day, I was in Grevena, I saw the young people in the cafeteria, and they were only dealing with football. That's what you only managed to do with soccer. If Mr. Mitsotakis thinks the world has heard him... And now these speeches, keep in mind, they don't listen to them. Some people told me: "Only you, Mr. Leventis, do. I've got the sound down, and when you talk, I hear you. When others speak, I close the sound." I'm just saying that because I'm not told by anyone. If only one had told me, I wouldn't have said it. Young people leave politics and leave Greece as well as what you do, by saying that Mitsotakis will reduce the tax here, will reduce the tax there. Where? Since you, the New Democracy, are a party that will serve the great capital. Will you look at the poor man? Are you going to look at the man who takes 300 euros, the farmer? Will you look at him? And Tsipras doesn't have the right to say what he's saying. And Tsipras is lying. And I told Tsipras that he would have enormous responsibilities, because he started to slit memorials and return wages and he has also become the "mistake" of the retired, the "summary" of the wagers, has caused armies of the unemployed. About what the TVs say and advertise, that Greece has excess and that it has made a surplus. Of course, if nothing moves, and there's phobia, and they all go and pay the traffic charges, they pay one, they pay the other, it's going to be superfluous. But, over and above what GDP? What kind of GDP is it? Have you measured the GDP on which there is an excess to see the feat hidden under this supposed success? There is another issue here - and that is why I have misunderstood the issue of the euro. You've done this. There was a survey that 58% was against the euro. So the crazies who defend the drachma rejoice, because - he tells you - a few more mistakes to make by the government or by the next one, and the world will want to leave the euro. Because everyone thinks it is wrong that the crisis is due to the euro. Because journalists are also doing the crime and swearing Merkel and the euro, and not the nomination Prime Ministers, who were eating, drinking, eating food. When, in other words, seven years ago, journalistic careers were made with the filth of foreigners, of course, every single citizen will say that it is the euro. Who else? It is time for us to leave the euro and, you know, this time is waiting for Turkey to put us in the cavaze - what it's called - to put the cheese on us and have us like mice. Turkey wants to play with Greece without European solidarity. Why is that? Because, when the crisis broke out in 2009, there was not the courage to make reforms and to take tough measures. That's not what's strong enough. Samaras began with Zappeion 1 and Zappeion 2, Tsipras smashed memoirs and every citizen said it was foreigners' fault. Some other lunatics came out and said they came to get us the oil, that the strangers came here to get us the properties and the oil. He hears this poor guy who cut his pension, and let's get a conclusion. If we succeed with these stupid tactics to leave the euro and go to Grexit, we'll have done the biggest crime. We would be the country that has achieved something, has touched a little luck, and alone, from the madness of politics, lost everything. This country will be, ladies and gentlemen. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] She said that when she brought the simple analogue herself, she believed at that time. Then, three months ago, the issue of the vote was raised, it did not vote on it. He voted for the enhanced one so that Mitsotakis could have fifty seats. He says that at that time he believed her. But the issue of electoral law is a matter for us every six months, every year, to have another opinion? It's a serious matter. We have to put a simple analogue in the Constitution if we want to become a serious country. Now, why are the right-wing people laughing? They're laughing because they're losing power. You know, gentlemen of PASOK, I appreciate you. It's political, my disagreement. I don't have anything with you guys, but you gave it a chance to make a triumph on the right. And when he makes the round of triumph, right, he'll be some people responsible for the triumph, and you, of PASOK, who will be co-operative with them. There won't be another party. The Central Association, with apostates that threw George Papandreou - their family - cannot make a partnership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Leventis. The President of the Potami Parliamentary Group, Mr Theodorakis, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be up-to-date. I won't need ten minutes. I do not want, ladies and gentlemen, to defend the former rulers. But I see something oxymolymer about what Mr. Tsipras usually says. Protests on PASOK's co-operation with the New Democracy. Somebody's gonna listen to him outside and believe he's not ruling with a far-right guy. So I think it is at least insurmountable to refer to the former regime, saying that it is the right with the Centre that was running and today you are running on the far right, with a extreme right-wing politician not to say a word. Mercy and a little self-awareness! I have called on Mr Tsipras to answer whether he agrees with Mr Kammens' complaints and self-defenses against the journalists. I didn't get any answers. Our question will remain. Another matter. Mr Tsipras demolished Mr Mulopoulos - I do not know if you have noticed it - in the position of former SYRIZA MP. Mr Mulopoulos has another capacity, ladies and gentlemen. He is Chairman of the Board of Directors of Dawn today. Anyway, we really need to save Doll and the Workers and find a business solution without sea-loving. And Marinopoulos shouldn't we be saving? I had to. Mr. Tsipras sent Mr. Skourletis to take over Marinopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u128	That's how private things work...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u129	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u130	So he sends the government party to every operation that has to be saved, a party trusted, senior executive, to save her? Funny. It is clear that he tries SYRIZA's long hand, after failure on the channels, to control developments in the Doll and, by that, I believe, the "MEGA". I told you before the deal was up. And there's particular interest in the contractor, Mr. Bobola. He did the meetings with the ministers to save - supposedly - the Doll, as he has saved the "Pagasso". On substance, Mr Tsipras said something right, which I will not reject. We agree that we need to make an effort to save the forms and not to save the owners of the forms. This attempt has also been made abroad. This attempt has been made in France on Sarkozy, it has been made in Italy on Rencie. We have to do this. The country must not be left without papers, regardless of the differences we or you or the others have with any of them. There are decisions taken in the European Union. I think that, far from populism and demagogues, we should take responsibility and decide to save the press and not deliver the information to the chaotic world of the Internet. I shall refer briefly to the issue of electoral law. Our view is that you have been cowardly and conservative. We have proposed three things which the entire Greek society wants and you have not dared to do. Firstly, the vote of the people who are abroad, of our children who have left. Why don't they vote? Why do you decide to drop "black" on this option that they could make? Why are you saying from now on that these people, whenever elections are held, will not vote, will they not make a decision on their country? It's a conservative, cowardly choice. And you have no answer why you do it, because technically now it's too easy. We also suggested the break-up of the major regions, which you used to say were the incubators of corruption. You have not accepted that either. Mr. Leventis didn't want it, and Mr. Tsipras retreated. The third one we proposed is a pro rata bonus. The first party get a bonus, depending on its power. In other words, when a party has 40%, it takes twenty seats, when it has 50%, to take twenty-five seats. You did not agree to discuss this either. So, in electoral law, you're making choices, depending on what's of interest to you every time. As you can see, if anyone makes occasional choices and turbulent policies, at the end he stays alone without allies on any subject. Now, with regard to the big picture, economy and evaluation, I do not really understand - and I would like Mr Tsipras to make it clear - whether the IMF has to leave. Does the IMF have to leave? Is that the point of view? Because I hear from ministers and one from each other. So you want the IMF to leave and stay alone with Mr. Shoeble? Is it currently in the interest of the country to leave the IMF and to have Mr Shoeble's demand for large surpluses without adversity? In the debt case, does the IMF have a negative position? We want a concrete response from the government, beyond general stereotype ideological references. For us, ladies and gentlemen, postponement is not the road. We have to move on. The forgotten Greeks have no patience. And this concerns farmers, the unemployed, the creative Greeks. That's our thought. We must therefore find the courage to look into society, to live in it and not everyone living in the micro-world created by its party mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr. Theodorakis. We will now give the floor to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Apostleou, for his denial. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u132	I will be brief, Mr President. Because there have been inaccuracies over the Rural Development Programme, I would like only to dwell on it. Mr Mitsotakis said that in November with a press release Mr Kefaloniann, the MEP, referred to a low absorption. First of all, it's not November, it's October 6th. So he is definitely not aware of what has happened until 31-12-2016. So the figures show us exactly that we have an absorption of 17% and we have the total amount of EUR 656 million. I am tabling them, because it really was a terrible misinformation today, especially on other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u133	What measures are, Minister, what have you said?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u134	Wait a minute. Don't take the talk from my mouth. As you repeat the notices of the measures, I told you, in advance, within one year what had been done to approve the programme and you know that what you had submitted in July was rejected by the known procedures. So we have updated and started implementing, I would say, the implementation. So we have already announced these days or are in the process of calling in two or three days, five measures of 1,5 billion. The euro. If you want, I'll tell you what's going on. Already one measure, which concerns aid to producers in mountainous, disadvantaged areas, has been paid for, and relates to the 244 million in the balancing system, which Mr Mitsotakis has not even taken into account when submitting this form. There is also the other measure, which concerns young farmers, which you all know. It is simply because the computer system - and it does not depend on us - cannot close this process. However, the submission of these requests has been completed and it concerns 12 000 young farmers. It's 241 million euros. LEADER has already been launched to select local action groups. You know that program. We are talking about an operational programme of EUR 322 million. It has already been interviewed and made public about organic farming, which has been costing 443 million euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u135	This was not published!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u136	I'm telling you, it's a matter of one or two days. These are technical issues, which have already been completed. We gave a press conference the other day, and we presented the matter. There's a process. At least those involved in space know that they are technical details and nothing else. We also have the programme concerning the training of young farmers, which will in the first instance have the 11 million. It is a project managed by "ELGO - PIMITRA". The processing and marketing of agricultural products, amounting to EUR 250 million, is planned in the first quarter of 2017. The Ministerial Decision has already been given for consultation. Furthermore, the measure to support and encourage investments in energy production through renewable energy sources, and we particularly mean the photovoltaic arcs, which both through and through partnerships, are responding to a major problem that the rural area has, especially in plant production, the cost of energy. We will have energy production through partnerships for the same consumption, and of course, we will enter PPC's network. This is a lot of intervention in the cost of production. Of course, we are already preparing what I said before, which concerns consultants and is a measure that will really help us in particular to have geotechnical applications throughout Greece. I'm closing in measure 5.2. It is the well-known measure that we want to use to restore damage to fixed plant and animal production facilities. Because I saw Mr Balaura here, we have issues relating to the Ilias greenhouse plants, which are innovative investments, which we need as a country. Through this measure, 5.2 will restore the damage. There's a chance we can get to cover 100% of the damage. So, with regard to the use of the Rural Development Programme, we have been on a road. We want these specific money to have a real objective of serving agricultural activity. Do not forget that we had previous Rural Development Programmes and you were looking to find bells, squares and streets to absorb and make the money available. So this money we have will be managed in a way that will serve rural activity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-one students and students and four educational attendants from the 11th Municipal School of Nea Ionia Magnesia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Tsironis, Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, has the floor for his denunciation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. I will also have to speak for two minutes on matters which are not in the agricultural sector, which unfortunately have been monopolized. I sincerely say to you that I do not care at all if the one who runs the Doll or any doll called the Moulopoulos or the Physician. What is of interest to the citizen is that for decades of opinions very important to the Greek society has been cut off by the media. I am referring to, and I will keep saying, that the great scandal of Olympiad and the people who denounced it and said that we are leading to the economic disaster has never been projected by the media of the regime. He's buried! So what you are calling so-called pluralism is the possibility of a statute which has been in place for decades. Even today, key issues of the political scene, such as the theme of TTIP, have not been passed on to Greek media. European citizens, the Germans, the French, are being informed, but we nothing, nothing! This is the big problem in the media of Greece and not whether it is Mr. Psykris or Mr. Mulopoulos. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over, Mr Nikolaos BOUTSIS]] I was very sorry to hear she gave, she says, Mrs Duru the work of the Faliric Horm in "AKOR". But, honestly, is that a way to talk to the House? It was a public international competition with everything, absolutely right. Eight companies participated, two of which are foreign companies - and I have the evidence in front of me - and the contractor took it with a 54% discount. So, what was it supposed to be? Does everything that is going on in Greece over our days also have to be a scandal? So you're judging for yourself. I'm sorry to say that. We cannot discuss on this basis, on a basis of constant scandalology, without any evidence. I should like to hear how it is possible to be regarded as a scandal or to be indicted to the House - and I have, in fact, been absent - the regional authority. I will now go back to the agricultural sector and close with him. When we talk about entrepreneurship in the agricultural sector and say - so wishfully - that the Greek product should go to the European shelf, we need to know, first of all, what we are talking about. Greek production is suffering today - if you speak to the producers and forget about the party blindfolds, you will see that - because it cannot be guaranteed in the European supermarket a fixed quantity. Ask any German Member, ask any producer. We can't go in because we don't have fixed quantities. And we don't have fixed quantities, because we don't have Greek logistics. So it is not because we throw a phrase into the air and pretend to be "hot entrepreneurship", we solved the problem. It is very important that the Greek producer or he will go through middlemen - he will sell to the Italians, to say it very simply, the 4 euro oil to pack it up and send it with his own logistics with 17 and 18 and 20 euros of pure virgin oil to the European market - or he will have to self-organise himself. That is what you know very well, since it is not all wishes for the state to do all above, that it must be done with the farmers' cooperation with the state. The second point that has been raised - and I shall end with that, Mr President - is the question of funding. Many people have said, at last, about the Agricultural Bank and the way in which they took it out, stripped it and destroyed it. It's a huge tool. You know, then, - those who at least listen to you and read and do, rather than actually, to make a cheap opposition here - that the global tool, which can solve this problem, is the so-called 'ethical banks', that is, - because it is not a moral term, so that the viewers and viewers who are watching us - which is available throughout the world, which finances uncredited units, not a criterion of what they can put a guarantee, but how good and sustainable is the idea they make at the bank in terms of business, ecological and social terms. Such proposals are financed by the so-called 'ethical banks'. The second facility of the "ethical bank" is that it finances the principal that depends on the performance of the year. That is, if one year a farmer has a bad performance, they don't put a knife in his throat. Under these two criteria, then, moral banks operate around the world. But I'm telling you, when we tried to build such banks on your day - and we have to have such banks - we stuck on the cartel wall that you supported and could not be. So today I tell you - and I close with this - that we have started an investigation to get Greece, like other countries, 'ethical bank', to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on a pre-dated order under Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure, which was held at the initiative of the President of the Group of the Democratic Alliance of the European Democratic Alliance, PASOK - DIMARMAR, Mr Fotini Gennimata, at the level of the Heads of Government, on the primary sector and farmers. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-18-S1-commons.u140	With the agreement of the House at 17.14 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 19 January 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: the topical and urgent debate, and (b) legislative work: according to the agenda distributed.
