ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the agenda of the legislative work I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Thursday 2 November 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Mr Ioannetas Kavadias, Member of Parliament, dated 161/30-10-2017, a topical question from the Radical Left Coalition, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Involvement budget". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 165/30-10-2017 by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: “Let the young farmers concerned continue to be unjustified.” 3. The 157/26-10-2017 topical question by V Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Incomplete even after the deadline for delivery, the School of Archangelos Rhodes". 4. The Question No 209/31-10-2017 by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Measures on the cases of posibility in sheep and goats in Lesvos". 5. The Question No 202/31-10-2017 by Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP for the Athens I of Potamio Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: "The old age of cars is burdening the atmosphere." B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 166/30-10-2017, a topical question by the Deputy Serres of New Democracy Mr. Fotinis Arabatzis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The agony of the young farmers involved continues." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 208/31-10-2017 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Manufacture of a dam in Platis of Rethymnon, a water transfer pipeline in Messara and a irrigation network in Platis of the Municipality of Amari County of Rethymnon". 3. The Question No 207/31-10-2017 by Congressman Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Home Affairs on the "Help at Home" programme and the conversion of workers' contracts into an indefinite period of time. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Minister for the Environment and Energy: ‘Amendment of Law 2939/2001 on the alternative management of packaging and other products, adaptation to Directive 2015/720/EU, regulation of issues of the Greek Recycling Agency and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 25 October 2017 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, on articles and amendments. Be careful now: four ministerial amendments have been tabled. The three will be supported by Mr Famelos, who is present. The procedure for the fourth amendment, in my view, is unacceptable. It is a mini-legislative bill and it concerns an amendment by Mr Pappa. In any case, Mr Pappas will come and support it. Since there may be Members who do not want to talk about the bill, but who want to talk about this amendment, I would ask those who want to do so, when the bill is signed electronically, and when the bill comes to take the floor and speak, since the debate is uniform on this amendment. The electronic recording will be done as usual. In other words, as soon as the SYRIZA rapporteur Mr Diaras comes to the fore, he will be shut down as soon as the new Republic's rapporteur, Mr Bukoros, comes down from the forefront. Does the House agree with this procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u2	The House therefore agreed. Before I summon Mr. Dimitras to Vima, he has asked me for the floor for a minute, Mr. Shahinides, from the Golden Dawn, because he wants to raise a point of order. Here, Mr. Shahinides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. It is now four years since the murderous terrorist attack, which we have taken to our offices in the local organisation of northern suburbs. We call on the Bureau, as a minimum sign of respect for the two young children, to be respected by the Greek Parliament, even once a minute's silence. It was November 1, 2013, Friday day. Four years! Victims Giorgos Fountoulis, Manolis Kaplonis and seriously injured Alexander Gerezus, who, after thirteen whole surgery, continues to have a bullet in the back today. We ask for one minute's silence, because we consider these children to have a mother and father too. We've done resurrecting performances in relation to the evolution of this case and outside the GAAP and the Areo Ice. Unfortunately, the case has not gone ahead. We ask for self-evident. We ask for the right of their families. We ask for the vindication in the memory of the two wronged young children. And we ask your Bureau to respect the one-minute silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, as far as the Bureau is concerned, as was the case at the time of the murder, and today - and I think that the position I shall make, if not the whole thing, but the overwhelming majority of this House - we condemn such acts of violence, especially when they are dead, from wherever they come. We have said that and then I repeat it today. At the same time, on the occasion of the sad anniversary, our condolences to the families of the two victims again. As far as one minute's silence is concerned, it is not a matter of the Bureau. I will ask one - one of the representatives of the parties who are here to tell us about 'yes' or 'no' if they agree to keep the one minute silence. If the majority says no, it will not be observed. Mr. Diarah, from SYRIZA, do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u5	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u6	From New Democracy, Mr. Buquoir, do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u7	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u8	From the Democratic Alliance, Mr. Arvanitides, do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u9	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u10	From the JRC, Mr. Co-chair, do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u11	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u12	There's no one else. From the Golden Dawn is 'yes'. As far as the first part is concerned, therefore, I think the Bureau has covered it. As far as the second part is concerned, since the majority of the House does not accept one minute's silence, the Bureau cannot impose it. So let's get started.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u13	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u14	We don't have another conversation to discuss.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u15	Just a phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u16	Tell her when you get on the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u17	We will leave, Mr President. We regret the decision of the Greek Parliament. As a sign of protest, Golden Dawn departs from today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u18	So I don't even call you about the bill. Mr. Diaras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating and voting in plenary on the draft law amending Law No 2939/2001 on the alternative management of packaging and other products, the adaptation to Directive 2015/720/EU, the regulation of issues of the Hellenic Recycling Agency and other provisions, the revision of the legal framework for the collection of waste at source and recycling, the ecological management of waste. This is a matter of dimensions which concern the whole of the planet and not just our country. The risk bell for the planet and humanity strikes many scientists and the UN itself. The well-known scientist Lester Brown wrote a series of books in the last one, which has been translated into Greece, "The planet on its limits," he proposes a plan to save the planet with drastic measures and changes. Our economist and Rector of the Economic University Mr.Theodoros Lianos in the book: "Day without growth" also talks about the deadlock of lifestyle and the indiscretion of modern man. Journalist Hervé Kev over 20 years writes about the environment and the ecology. In his book: "How the rich destroy the planet" describes the deadlocks. I will mention two excerpts from the journalist Hervé Kev's book: 'The destruction comes from a system guided by the dominant layer, which today has no other driving force than greed'. And it continues "People want to rise to the social hierarchy by imitating the consumption of the upper class. This class conveys its own ideology of overconsumption throughout society." I didn't talk about Murray Bucksin's writing. I've talked about system scientists warning about the great danger, the possible collapse. But let me also say something from Murray Bucksin to please my friend JRC rapporteur. So he said Murray Bucksin that the capitalist system cannot become ecological or rather ecological as long as a fleshly crocodile can eat grass or as long as a lion can live peacefully with sheep. In today's report, I will repeat some of the elements that I mentioned at the meetings of the Committee on the state of the world and our country, in particular, about informing citizens. Life on the planet is at a dangerous turning point and two are the main factors: one is the increase in the world population and the second is consumerism with a waste of natural resources and, in general, the intransigent competition for profits, linked to wars and huge armaments costs. The role is played by nationalisms that impatient these phenomena, and several times they are motivated. The planet had a population of about 1 billion in the year 1950, about 2.5 billion, and now has a population of 7.4 billion. In the years ours has tripled the world's population. It is now increasing by one billion every twelve and thirteen years. At the same time, average consumption increased at all levels, materials, wood, metals, oil, food, water and, of course, increased consumption in all types of energy. World GDP per head in 1970 was about 4,700 dollars and in 2015 it became about 7,000 dollars, while in Greece 18,000 dollars. In our country we waste natural resources unnecessarily. Irrigation waters in many areas, for example in Thessaly, have been pumped and extracted without logic and measure. Waterproof horizons fall at very low levels with dangerous consequences. Our soils are losing their capacity over time. Lakes, seas and rivers pollute and lose fish stocks, lignite reserves and other minerals, finite resources, scarce, and in a few decades they are exhausted. The problem, however, now goes beyond the state borders. Climate change, the reduction of fish stocks, the reduction in the performance of operations, all the people of the world are concerned. In Greece we import wheat, so we are interested in what happens in the regions that are produced. Even the oil that burns the climate is a finite resource, and humanity needs it, not to burn it, but for other uses. It is planned that with the model of production, consumption and also the management of natural resources, which we have undermined the lives of the next generations. We undermine people's lives, but also generally the lives of other beings on the planet. The change in attitude of life and priorities is a matter of morality, a matter of quality of life, but also a matter of a sustainable economy. Today it is necessary, as ever, to form a global survival plan. This project must be specific to each group of states, such as the European Union, and in each country, something similar to the greenhouse gas reduction targets. This is a matter that must not be confined to climate change, but to the way of production and protection of nature, to the change of the consumer standard and the proper management of natural resources. In competition for large profits from multinational companies, such design does not fit in. This plan cannot be put into practice by the markets. Societies, those governments that understand it and care for all people and not for the profits of multinationals will do so. In our country, the government's majority also indirectly includes the Greens, who contribute in this direction. In Greece, we have remained behind the European Union's average in most of the indicators of good management. Especially in recycling, the percentages are frustrating. Most of Greece's municipal waste results in landfill sites of 81% to 83%. In the European Union, the figure is 31% on average. In some countries, what ends in the burial areas is less than 10%. In Greece, only 16% are recycled, while in the European Union 27% are recycled, composted, etc., only 3% are composted, while the European Union is 15%. We are in the last of Europe in terms of recycling and repetition. It says all about the policy of previous governments and regions, because the regions have an important role to play in these issues. For example, the design in the Attica region of the large composite waste treatment plants, with a guarantee to produce huge quantities of mixed waste, was announcing recycling itself. When you promise you'll go so much, almost everything produced, then there's no room for recycling. As for the limited scope of environmental education, but also the role of the media and in general the lack of information and awareness of the citizen, we are back. We need to speed up the process of saving and proper management of natural resources. We must move on to the logic of sustainability. The circular economy is a key factor in the sustainable economy that we are all talking about, but we are not doing it. I would like to make a comment on the position of the JRC's colleague, who does not vote for the bill. First of all, I agree with the assessment that the system does not leave much room for a social and solidarity economy. This, however, differs from the refusal to try to organise alternative forms of economic organisation. When these organizations are more collective and milder, they are certainly better than capitalist businesses. This has been taken over by the social economy in many countries with 10% of GDP. Also, why condemn the cyclical economy? Shouldn't we save what's being saved here and now in the conditions that we live on? A cyclical economy, too, should socialism not have? I believe that all citizens have a benefit and the people's family to build the cyclical economy, not to throw anything away. That's the target. To develop the metal, glass, paper and other materials. The glass, the beer bottle, it's not garbage. Scrap happens when we put it together with the skins and the residues of the food. Organic waste by composting is composted. The trimmings should not burn in the fields, return to the earth by composting as a fertilizer or at least exploiting energy. That is the logic of ecology and sustainability. That's the logic of our survival. Therefore, the issue of recycling has environmental, aesthetic, moral and economic dimensions. With this in mind, then, we are also discussing this bill. The priorities are: firstly, prevention. We must not have the production of disposable goods and materials that are not broken up. Secondly, the repetition of materials. Third priority is the recovery of raw materials through recycling in at least four currents. Fourthly, the other kind of recovery after the previous stages have been exhausted, i.e. good management of mixed waste. The draft amends the basic institutional framework for organising screening at source and recycling in the country, namely Law 2939/2001. The need for the bill is as follows. Recycling saves valuable raw materials that are otherwise imported and often at high economic and environmental costs. Recycling requires, firstly, the producer's responsibility for the products it produces and, secondly, the citizen's responsibility for the separation of waste and its delivery to the relevant recipient containers. The alternative management systems, the so-called TENs, in Greece on the basis of and the European directives are based on the Law 2939 and the principle of the enlarged Responsibility of the Producer. On the basis of this principle, financial incentives are used to encourage producers to design more environmentally friendly products. Producers shall be responsible for the costs of managing the products at the end of their life cycle, i.e. when such products become waste. All operators, producers and importers shall either be obliged to organise or participate in alternative management systems, TADs. TENs may be individually or collectively evaluated, approved and controlled by the National Recycling Organisation, the so-called EEAN. Today, in Greece there are twenty-three approved alternative management systems covering packaging, batteries, batteries, waste electrical and electronic equipment, used tyres, waste oils, end-of-life vehicles, cars and waste from excavations, construction and demolition. The previous law did not ensure the good quality of recyclable materials, which it needed to feed entrepreneurship in the recycling sector, but also the relocation. At the same time, there was a serious lack of logging tools for producing safe data for recycling. Excessive accumulation of economic resources was observed in the reserves of alternative management systems. There has also been an unrealistic development of the market in the area of recycling, economistry and unfair competition. Finally, the Hellenic Recycling Agency, EEAN, was unable to develop the necessary structure and strength to respond effectively to the design of recycling, education and citizen information, as well as the monitoring and monitoring of the functioning of these systems. In short, the present, for the past sixteen years, N.2939, which has, in fact, been applied lately and incompletely, has been an anachronistic today and had to change. The objectives: The proposed law comes to respond to problems and needs, to the gradual achievement of new national targets and to reduce the waste that results in landfill. Recyclable materials: Objective in 2020 recycling of glass, paper, metal and plastic to go to 65%. Secondly, packaging wastes: Recycling over 80.2%. The aim is to upgrade recycling quality to at least four currents and packaging, with the introduction of an obligation to sort at source at joint and public business meetings, to optimise the operation of the Local Government A's A' grades as a cell of grading at source with motives and anti-incentives. The municipalities now form the local management plans, and for this purpose, as we know, the Ministry will allocate around EUR 10 million. Incentives and counter-incentives shall be established through the pricing regulation for the treatment of mixed waste by Regional Management Bodies, PVCs. Includes the establishment of a clearer framework of TAs contracts with systems and provision for financial compensation for the first time, in intervention in the operation of alternative management systems, setting conditions aimed at transparency and fair relations with producers. There is also a forecast for an annual reserve to avoid accumulation of resources, 35% of annual revenue, to combat the producers' tax evasion in relation to the recycling fee, to create incentives for citizens and municipalities to participate in recycling and to have a return from this participation, to encourage initiatives to recycling from the social and solidarity economy, to intensify controls and to strengthen the Community mechanism, to provide for a national public information system, to strengthen the Greek Recycling Agency, EOAN, which has a very important responsibility and role in this recycling process, and therefore to strengthen it to human and organisational structures. Finally, the provision of specific measures to reduce the use of the plastic bag in line with the provisions of Directive 2015/720/EU. An indication of the place and date of production and the number of the NPA National Production Register shall be made. A deterrent fee shall be provided for the plastic bag applied to the retailer from 1-1-2018 three minutes per bag from 1-1-2019 seven minutes per bag. Free disposal, promotion, reuse of bags and their compulsory placement in the vicinity of the funds is foreseen. The bill we're discussing is just the beginning. There is a lot to be done, and after its vote, to implement in practice all the measures planned with the rapid adoption of the implementing NCAs and the availability or prevention of personnel to the EEW. Recruitment, repetition, recycling and other sectors provided for by the ECHR must go ahead. For example, I mention organic recycling of domestic, neighbourhood and municipality and regulation of rules on the use and recycling of balls. With these institutional measures, if they are implemented with citizens' information and the enhancement of environmental education for sustainability, we can achieve the objectives of national planning, save resources, reduce the disposal of waste in the environment, stimulate the recycling industry in the social economy and employment. It is delightful, ladies and gentlemen, that the bill is passed in principle and by Opposition, except for the JRC. All citizens, all parties need to do the changes that are now commonplace in the West and in the East. If we work together, at least, where we all agree, we do good at home, our citizens, our children and the planet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u20	The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Christos Bukokouros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion aims to improve the performance of recycling, to boost the cyclical economy, and above all to limit the waste, which is being burialed and which in our country is at a very high rate of 81% of the total, when in the European Union this figure only reaches 31%. The proposed regulation attempts to modernise the institutional framework of alternative packaging management and other products. These issues have so far been regulated by Law No 2139/2001, which incorporated Directive 9462 of the European Union, but since then there have been two very important European directives such as 2008/98, which was incorporated into Law No 4042/2012 and Directive 2015/720/EU, which is attempting to be incorporated into the draft law we are debating today, which concerns the reduction of plastic transport bags. It should be noted that in the context of the European Union it is expected to produce new legislation, which will possibly make it timeless and analogous, even the bill we are debating today. There is no doubt that we all agree on trying to improve the performance of recycling in our country, which is behind. It remains to be seen whether this is done with today's bill and, of course, we can see the full implementation of the bill over time. As usual - and I will start with a comment that is in the region of the bill - the SYRIZA - ANEL Government prefers to deal with the easy and pleasant things and to refer the unpleasant ones to the unknown future. This is reflected in this bill. Instead of initially managing the issue of waste at the Attica basin, which is close to the borderline, the government chooses to promote - and this is very late - the revision of the legal framework for recycling. The relevant Ministry takes the view that recycling in Greece will be running at a rapid pace and so we will be able to reduce landfill waste, which may result in - possibly - a few years at Attica's HYTAD, the life of which ends in 2019, and we very much fear that a truly stiff bomb is being inherited to the next government. To calculate today the Ministry's plan to run recycling quickly and to such a large extent, the waste being burialed, we think it is a paper design, is an expression of desire. For, in order to implement this bill, Minister, as we had the opportunity to tell you in the committee which has been working on it, seven joint ministerial decisions, a presidential decree, a ministerial decision and a decision of great importance to the board of directors of the European Union are needed. This, of course, is the case with regard to the legislative preparation for the implementation of the draft law. In fact, and on the functioning of the bill, we have had the opportunity to see the thousands of problems that need to be solved by the preparation, approval and implementation of the local waste management plans, up to the failure of some Alternative Management Systems, which will be blocked by your over-regulations. There is therefore no assurance, except at the theoretical level, that the performance of recycling will be improved immediately. In other European countries, we know, Minister, that in order to deliver recycling and have a significant improvement, it has taken five to ten years and another fifteen years. The government has not applied a letter of its choice to the so-called large picture, which, as mentioned above, is the future of the management of waste in Attica, where half the waste is produced, is choosing the painless and pleasant recycling of packaging and other products, in which we all agree. We all agree that recycling needs to be improved. In fact, you have asked yourself, Minister, both from Members of the New Democracy and from the rapporteur to the committees what you have done from your political options for waste management in Attica. Because you were only interested in canceling the PPPs and the collection factories for mixed waste decided. You made some other choices, decided landfill sites and alternative recycling plants. What, though, have you been doing on these issues three years now that you're government when the problem hits us at the door and I described it before? Have you made a placement of these units? Have some studies carried out on these units? Absolutely nothing! You said, of course, that you would reply to the House. With regard to the bill and its articles, I would say in general that it distinguishes itself from the excessive bureaucracy it creates, the obsessive overregulation of the operation of recycling entities and, finally, its involuntary intervention at all levels. I would point out, for example, that in Article 4a, control over such detail of relatives and incompatibilities is truly impracticable, so the regulation becomes incomplete. The same applies to the administrative costs of alternative management systems. It would suffice to check through the operational cost plans per unit, compared with what is happening in the other European countries. Illegality is considered, in our view, the regulation for 35% of the special reserve, in the midst of liquidity problems and capital control what happened to your promises that they would leave these capital controls in the first year, in the second year? They create at all stages of the economy, even in the cyclical economy, problems. The matter should be resolved through the operational plans approved by the EEAN on a case-by-case basis. We have said so to the committees, not all the systems themselves, do not have the same liquidity needs. In Article 4C we ask this. Is the compulsory participation of new shareholders compatible with commercial law? Why is the obligation to contract with a TENs not sufficient? That provision infringes the autonomy of the collective schemes, which is also established by Union law. This overregulation would make sense if there were a monopoly operation of a system per category of waste. The forced participation of new shareholders, Mr Minister, among other things, is in conflict with our Constitution. Article 6, which concerns the incorporation of the Community Directive 2015/720/EU to reduce the plastic transport bag, generally all operators - New Democracy - agrees as well - in the timetable for achieving the objectives. In this particular article, however, we also express a strong reservation to the achievement of the objectives and, above all, to the transfer, Minister, in full the costs of managing packaging packaging of plastic bags to small and medium-sized enterprises producing this product. I ask you directly, Minister. To date and before discussing this bill, what burdened this cost? Has it hit the small Greek crafts, two hundred and twenty-five employees in Greece? Oh, no. It is now burdening all these Greek businesses. Minister, this cost is not small. It's up to 3% -4%. A ton of plastic bag - for those colleagues too - costs 1,700-2,000 euros. So when we come to add EUR 66, a small and medium-sized enterprise sees its cost escalating by 3% -4%. He says the Minister will pay the same for importers, namely those who bring the bags from Turkey and China. But in Turkey and China these businesses, Minister, do not live in a banking system with capital controls. They don't have the liquidity problems our own businesses have. In these countries, however, companies are being over-financed. I have explained this to you, but you have distorted my opinion to the committees and said that this is not the case. I say this precisely, that it affects the liquidity of small and medium-sized Greek enterprises. We could therefore agree and agree with the timetable and the spirit of the directive that is being incorporated. But we would ask you, Minister, to share this management cost for these companies and for the large users. Because until now - you must tell the Members - this cost was paid for by the large retail chains. We are now transferring it to small and medium-sized Greek businesses. We would therefore ask you to either reduce or divide these costs in order to agree on this article, which is integration. Ladies and gentlemen, a number of articles in the bill highlight the central role that local authorities have to play in the issue of recycling. "The local waste management plans will be the "new" of recycling," the Minister pointed out several times during the drafting of the bill. The question is whether all the OTAs will be able to synchronise their step, because only then will we achieve the recycling targets that I spoke about at the beginning of my position. In order to be able to finance, promised by the Minister, directing to infrastructure and recycling actions, complete local projects are required, their rapid approval by the Greek Recycling Agency and their uninterrupted implementation. Where appropriate, the amount promised by the Minister for Recycling Infrastructures, 1,1 billion from the EMCDDA Fund, and 50-60 million or 70 million that will be released from the reserves of the TENs, to show that they are significant funds and indeed to be. However, a number of issues have to be addressed which have been raised by the representatives of government and which have to do with economic and spatial issues. In particular, the four recycling streams, glass, metal, paper, wood, coupled with the existence of green organic waste bin in the densely populated areas pose imperative location issues. Finally, the Ministry - and that is what we are working on and with which we disagree - seems to believe that if the targets of recycling are achieved, this will be due to the bill we are debating today. If the targets of recycling are not met, the non-organised municipalities and local government I will be responsible. Something that is unfair to the municipalities and local government agencies I grade Article 18(4) also includes strict penalties for infringements of general and unlimited obligations which do not take into account, inter alia, conflicts of interest and professional or commercial secrecy. We could also raise serious objections to Articles 18 and 19a relating to fines and their parametering, as well as to the giantization of the Greek Recycling Agency, both administrative and service. Let me tell you a reasonable question, Minister. We say that recycling will run quickly and we will achieve the targets. In six months, all local alternative management plans to be developed by the TAs should be approved. [[At this point, the Honourable Member's speech bell is ringing.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President. But we are, Minister, in the light of this situation. The new establishment plan of the EEAN, according to the bill, provides for fifty-one executive posts. The establishment plan, currently in force, provides for thirty-one posts. Of these are only eleven posts today. So you tell us that this agency will check and approve all local alternative management plans within six months. How's that gonna happen? You're going to APA procedures - says the bill - to send EOAN. Will the IACC procedures be completed in six months to complete the establishment plan and will all local projects be checked, which will be submitted in a detailed, documented and correct manner? You imply, of course, that there will also be exceptional recruitments. That's what we disagree. Neither with mobility - if you take advantage of all the possibilities, since the services have not approved their establishment plans - you will be able to achieve this objective. Mr Minister, despite the fact that the New Democracy in the committees voted 'yes' in principle - and this 'yes' is our intention, too, to improve recycling - and expressed its objections, its reservations and, almost all of the articles in the bill, the legislative improvements you brought to our articles do not cover them at all. We therefore have to revise our position, vote against the bill. I see only a few articles that we may agree on. And this is due to excessive bureaucracy, to severe stateism, to overregulation and, of course, to the fact that you do nothing or have told us nothing today about the great picture, Minister, as I described to you at the beginning. The amendments will refer to our parliamentary representative, Mr Kefaloyannis. However, for the amendment of a general number 1323 and a specialist of 158 for the licensing of the channels, I would just like to point out a phrase and it is this: the ongoing amendments of the Pappa Law continue and bring about new regulations. What does not, however, bring about this amendment which - as the President of Parliament has said - is a small-scale bill? In a mini bill, it doesn't bring the most, the superstitious way you've ever been. So we tell you that new pastures will not be accepted! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u22	We're starting the list of special speakers. Mr Georgios Arvanitis has the floor, a special speaker from the Democratic Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the political framework for recycling in Greece became essential in 2001 when the PASOK government first passed a comprehensive law. Recycling until then was an exaggeration, a utopian objective of modern environmental management. It was a country that until the 1980s was picking up its garbage with platforms, tractors and trucks, and that was about 80% of the country. It was a country in which the steps taken over the last forty years for some are selfish and others are annoying. The story, however, has been written and does not change; it suits everyone. When we were talking about green growth, some were talking about 'green horses' and others, who talk about a distorted model of development in post-policy, are the ones who today bring down recession and good intentions. So, before you go through the details, we first need to learn to place events in their real dimension. With this bill, the government will try to improve the country's performance in recycling by accepting the political framework and the basic principles that the PASOK government adopted sixteen years ago. This is the real dimension of the bill, which we are debating today, and that is why the Democratic Integration will vote for, in the hope and wish of achieving its objectives, difficult objectives which, in order to achieve them, need first and foremost a national recycling organisation that is sufficient and effective. But at the same time, too, a lot of work is needed in society. Recycling is an issue which, in my opinion, is not governed solely by law. The law defines the framework and objectives. However, if we are to manage wisely the limited resources we have, as a society, is a matter of culture, of understanding things, it is a way of life. Do you really think, ladies and gentlemen, that if we fine a citizen, who does not manage his household waste properly, we will have a result? What we might be able to do is possibly follow the law from obligation and fear rather than from choice. Of course we saw the results of the anti-smoking law, a law that does not apply, because it is impossible to have a controller in each store, as in recycling it is impossible for you to have a controller above every blue bin. So the question is simple: What is recycling in Greece of 2017? Is this the occasion for a gala of our wealthy fellow citizens showing their social faces? Is it a means of survival for poor fellow humans who bring a dish of food to their homes, recycled iron and paper themselves, which they collect from where they find and lead it to trade? Is this part of the household economy where housewives are recycling to save money as a family? It's a fig sheet for a growth that some people want, but can't they succeed? The real answer is that it's a little bit of everything. If we do not go to an integrated recycling model in which we will be able to reuse the materials we recycle, then as a society we do not go anywhere. If citizens do not see a system that protects the environment and reduces municipal charges on PPC's account, they will stop seriously. And if society doesn't understand its real benefit then I think we're trying to losers. Today the cost of managing our waste exceeds EUR 100. Do you know how a citizen who has devoted time to separating his garbage and sees the wastewater swab together to empty the green and blue bin? Do you know that in the blue bin right now there are over 30% fermentable materials that should be in the green bundle and, respectively, in the green bundle we have over 30% recyclable materials that are being bred? Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, or do you wonder where the glass we collect goes? Do you know where the tires go, which we subscribe and collect or the tetrapack? Nowhere! They're indisposed and stacked, because we haven't managed to build an economy that can manage them. I don't know if it's gonna be a grant or a financial plan. There are no individuals today to process these materials, which are valuable. And here, perhaps through these procedures, we can lead to targets or procedures that can be recycled. This is the biggest wound, the biggest problem so far and a problem this bill cannot deal with. So if we want to move to a circular economy, as it has been said, we must move at the same time to many levels. A good example must be given by the same state. Does anyone really know what quantities of metal are there in shipwrecks that we could use? Do you know what quantities of metal and other materials are present in the DPOs, decommissioned wagons on the rails of the OSE, what wealth is there in the public sector, which is currently devastated and degraded? In simple studies, this amount has been shown to be more than EUR 2 billion. Are we able to record and use this wealth to give jobs, to give income to the Greek family, to support the Greek economy? Are we in a position to get away from the hustle and make environmentally friendly development actions with resources that we already have, but are we ignored? If we want, then, to be serious and not to make a allegedly environmental policy to fondle our conscience, we must say things by their name. That is why I proposed that the annual report of the EEAN should be submitted to Parliament for discussion and evaluation, so that we have a clear picture of where we are and where we want to go, an image enriched by the operational plan next year, on the basis of which the Agency will assess the alternative management systems and the municipalities and will be evaluated by the House. I would therefore like to thank the Minister personally for accepting this proposal, because it is time to get away from generalities and finally learn to measure the outcome of our efforts. The administration must learn to apologise for the objectives it has not achieved and take initiatives to correct problems. Accountability, ladies and gentlemen of the administration, is a crucial condition for our democracy. I also told the committee that we cannot talk about horizontal success or failure of this institutional framework that has brought us here. There are signs that went well and others that could go better. For example, I will tell you that by the 2001 Act we achieved the national target of 60% for all packaging waste. In other respects, it is true that we have not gone well at all. We need to see what happened and what better we can do, but not in general terms. Not every time we do not catch a target to say that recycling has failed in that country and not even every time we go over the bar to suffocate and think things will go that way. If we want to have time, we need to learn to work on a 'roadmap' which reflects the potential and weaknesses. I'm closing down with a few points in the bill. I'm starting on positive. First of all, I am pleased that binding deadlines have been introduced within which the EEW should respond positively or negatively to the requests of the ETS to exceed 10% of the administrative costs and 35% of the reserve. I am also glad that the Minister said that these limits were introduced after a study of real data for use, which is something that remains to be proved in the near future. However, I would remind you that there is still an pending formulae, the algorithm used by the EEAN, to impose fines. If you do not want to go through him by law, Minister, you must at least put him in the Minutes so that he can be evaluated by the parties. In addition, data must be submitted to the House for the 1,1 billion, which you say can make use of the municipalities in their operational arm. I have asked the committee for a table that says that these are the financial instruments, that these are the resources available in these instruments, and that these will be the operational actions which anyone can use through the process of the proposals or the objectives you set out. I'm coming to negatives now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Arvanitides, allow me a 30-second interruption. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, forty-one students and three educational sessions from the 1st General High School of Aspropyrgos and twenty-four students and an educational meeting from the 6th Elementary School of Painters. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Thank you, Mr Arvanitidis. Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. The interruption was for good reason. So I now come to negatives. I also talked to the committee a lot about the exclusions in the shareholder composition of the Alternative Management Systems. I believe there is no reason, Minister, to operate in defence. If in previous years there have been misconduct and illegality, those responsible must answer to justice. Clear words, clear words. There is no reason to go in advance to horizontal blockades, which will create problems in existing systems that operate transparently and catch the targets. There is no reason not to open recycling to the chambers and professional associations. I repeat that recycling is mainly a matter of mentality. So the more you close a system, the harder the work you have to do in society. I hope that by the end of the meeting, Minister, you will rethink it. In Articles 7 and 8, there have been two strange legislative improvements for me. I also told the committee that the EEW must work quickly and effectively if we want the bill to succeed. In fact, for that very reason, binding deadlines have also been introduced to respond to requests. But the Minister is now coming and doing something that I consider to be contrary to the philosophy of the bill. It gives the EEW the opportunity to request ex post modification of operational plans of the TENs and the municipalities, because he did not have time to see them when they were adopted and they were adopted on a case-by-case basis after the expiry of the deadline laid down by the law. Practically, a business or a municipality will start working on a model and suddenly one day it will have to change it, because the EEAN had the time and woke up and decided that he doesn't like this business plan. These are not reasonable things, Minister, especially when there are no limits to what kind of modifications EEAN may request. I also heard the answer you gave to the committee, Mr Minister, on the President-in-Office's decree in Article 21, and to some extent I agree with it. I will tell you, however, that it is quite problematic to give the possibility of changing the recruitment qualifications to the EEAN by means of a presidential decree. In the same sense, I cannot understand why fines will be imposed on the municipalities by a ministerial decision and not by an algorithm, as you say EEAN will do for alternative management systems. The same applies to fines for citizens. The management board will not be bound by an objective formula to impose the corresponding fine, which, in my opinion, is problematic, by double standards. This is democracy, and so we must address it, and not by keeping the possibility of imposing policies and fines at administrative level. I think you should see these issues and bring improvements. Finally, I want you to explain to us why there is no worker representative in recycling from the board of directors and the Committee for the Consultation of the EEAN. That's all for now. If I have to come back, I'll have second thoughts, and I'll have second thoughts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u26	Golden Dawn has left, so we move forward and the reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Syntrakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. For the Communist Party of Greece, the management of waste is another area of generalized collection of popular units with further bleeding of popular income in the name of "pay as I fly", the most extreme version of "polluter pays", worse than the logic of capital tax. It is also an investment platform for pooled funds and guaranteed profitability for business groups and banks, with the help of the urban state, government, regional and local government. As a consequence of all this, since everything is subject to profit, it is the risks to public health, the health and safety of workers in cleanliness, the continuous deterioration of the environment and the quality of life. This draft law on recycling serves the investment objectives of large capital. It is based on the entire domestic legislative framework established, at least from 2012 onwards. It is also based on a series of Community documentaries, with a crown of that newly-built discovery of a circular economy. The purpose of this draft law is how Greek legislation will be adapted to the European Union's pro-monopoly guidelines in the field of recycling, with the ultimate aim of creating even greater and safer profitability of business groups by plundering citizens, imposing new exodus characters, ensuring cheap labour power. What a hypocrisy, though! A moment ago the New Democracy told us that it was voting against the bill, while at all the meetings of the Committee on Production and Trade it was evident in favour of the draft law and substance. But does its attitude fundamentally change? Oh, no. After all, these toys of either one another to vote or vote against bills have been seen in the past. Like New Democracy, the rest of the Euromono street parties as a whole embrace their pro-monopoly, anti-environmental content and all the pro-monopoly guidelines and instructions of the European Union. The JRC, on the other hand, is voting against the draft law, because it is on the reverse of this policy. His proposal is in an anti-monopoly, anti-capitalist direction. Policies will either serve its capital and profitability, so they will be in a pro-monopoly and anti-environmental direction, or they will serve the people's needs and be in an anti-monopoly and environmental direction. The government and the Euromonstrate parties consciously choose the first. However, those who do not dare to smuggle or diligently hide both the government personnel and the opposition, the parties in the Euro-mono street, reveal them without compromising the staff of the European Union. In waste, the European Union Commissioner for the Environment says, there is gold in fact. It says: Our goal is to move towards a circular economy and make the best of business opportunities, ensuring access to the materials needed by industries, creating new jobs, putting the cherry on the cake as well. The chapter, ladies and gentlemen, is the first to see the waste as a commodity. Through the draft law, binding provisions of the European Union and on the pretext of greater recycling and the cyclical economy, they turn waste into a commodity. The waste may seem unnecessary for their producer, but it is not useless. They can be reinvested in the economy, not because the pain for health and the environment has caught them, but because it is a profitable sector for business groups. Behind the government's argument for sustainable investment, for the benefit of the social group, for the protection of the environment or on the pretext of removing the plastic bag and the other hypocriticals mentioned in the draft law, what the urban state seeks as a collective capitalist is to facilitate private capital by transferring it easily and on privileged terms the management of waste through public-private partnerships. Article 1 on the objectives of the draft law states that it is ensured that the usable materials contained in the waste are channelled back into the economy, thus contributing to the cyclical economy, namely capitalist production, which is intended to make the goods of European business groups more competitive. But the people have nothing to benefit from these goals. The recovery of useful materials, the recycling of aluminium, paper, glass, can give them direct profits, as has already been done in practice with anonymous recycling companies. What more typical example of the Greek Company for Recycling and Rating S.A. is supposed to be non-profit-making, but it was created by capital funds from multinational shops and chains, such as the "Coca-Cola" and others, but by offering the private capital the photo-foot that it is engaged in a joint project, while in fact it is being facilitated in its golden investment pursuits and at the same time contributing to the dismantling of popular reactions? Under the pretext of optimising the functioning of alternative management systems, the private systems that are organised by industrial and commercial colossians, producers and traders of consumer products and, in conjunction with other provisions, the intervention of the ESA S.A. is institutionally upgraded and shielded, since in practice it is the sole body of collective S.A.D., packaging in general, in the management of municipal mixed waste. The ESA S.A., the monopolies, are the absolute masters of the management of waste. The municipalities in practice have no scope for planning and organisation. The Government is attempting to make synergies to local communities, which are unsuspecting of the refined propaganda of Community, business and government staff on sustainable development and a rewarding benefit to the citizen, looking forward to accepting capital-efficient solutions in the management of waste, the logic of recompense, the acceptance of social responsibility and, ultimately, class cooperation and the demolition of consciences. Sustainable development in capitalism means ensuring a high rate of profit for the funds that will be invested and it is certain that the SYRIZA Government will do everything in its power in this direction. On the contrary, it is the people's household that will be called upon to pay the price of this development, and the robbery conditions will also be strengthened in recycling. Five times the cost per tonne of treatment in waste treatment plants of mixed and residual waste will be imposed super-capital fines from EUR 200 to EUR 500, the exterior special burial charge and will be called upon to bear all the draconian part of the costs, both for the supply of collection equipment and municipal facilities, in the context of the implementation of local projects on behalf of the large capital. From the EUR 920 million of the ESRB only EUR 142 million will be received by the municipalities. The rest will be taken by the PVCs for the treatment of mixed waste, namely those of interest to the large capital. That is to say, for the municipalities and for the covetous public funds in the capital. For reasons of comparison, it is sufficient to say that only in Attica, the actions of the municipalities, as included in their local waste management plans, have been budgeted at EUR 210 million. As far as the assurance through the draft law is concerned, a parallel reduction in the cost of management and compensation is therefore a raw deception of the popular strata. In relation to the argument that the pioneering municipalities in recycling by sorting at source will be rewarded with a lower contribution to the relevant VAT system, thanks to the ‘I pay as much as I fly’ system, half the truth is projected. The other half is that what the pioneers will save in recycling municipalities, as the draft law states - that is, the richest - will be burdened with by the popular strata of the municipalities that fall short of the comparative advantages. As for the environmental benefit - supposedly - the citizens, the deaths on the one hand of combustion, as provided for by the draft law and, on the other hand, the universal allocation of the processing of mixed waste - and not just waste in the capital reveals the real content of the claim in question. In the context of the planning, the Government upgrades the National Recycling Agency, a legal entity governed by private law, which, under the provisions of the draft law, safeguards its dominant role with over-concentration of powers in the management of packaging waste and under the sole supervision of a Minister. On a number of other issues, I would like to say that I am going to be placed in my dentistry. I will only say this in order to close the placement on the draft law: the JRC sets out terms and conditions for waste management, but in another development path, in the context of labour power, with a centralised design of the economy, on the basis of popular needs, protection and health of the environment. In the first phase, it follows from the promotion of recycling by sorting at the source of packaging, metals, paper form and organic fraction. Part of the current of unspecified waste, i.e. mixed waste, is subjected to mechanical recycling and composting in central installations, with the recovery of ferrous metals, a compost-produced fraction that is very useful soil improver and dry fraction that is a mixture of paper and plastic for further processing. The part of those that are not subject to mechanical recycling and composting, as well as the residues of the pre-differentiated streams, shall be led to safe landfill sites. Of course, all of this cannot be done in the context of today's capitalist development where privatization and business action in the field of recycling and the management of waste as a whole are essential. On the basis of all the above, ladies and gentlemen, and the positions of the party, the JRC, which I have described, our party is voting against the draft law on so-called recycling. But let me refer to the media amendment tabled by the government. The Government and the Ministry of Digital Policy bring in further legislative intervention with a last-minute amendment and even an amendment that is quite large, incredibly malicious, by tabling it one day and requesting it to be debated and voted on the next. And it's not the first time. The Ministry of Digital Policy is primarily the ministry that legislates in this way, as happened in the summer with the bill because of which historical local newspapers closed down, as was sometimes done with amendments that changed the Pappa law. I wonder why we still call him 'Pappa' after it has changed radically for two years. As a party, we have been placed many times in this regard, and we have said that it is serving a process of reforming the media area, a substantial redistribution of the pie between old and new fireplaces that are ambitious to enter this market, which is already taking place during the period we are currently dealing with takeovers, sales of channels, changes in share compositions and major victims of the workers themselves. The government favours, serves this redistribution, and even expects a more friendly landscape to be created for it, a new settlement, which all governments and the New Democracy and PASOK have done in the past, and which, of course, are shouting because SYRIZA copys them up to antenna. To a large extent it has done so, since it is now much more than the instruments and businessmen who support the government, regardless of the government's crowns, which shows only those who fight it and not those who support it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me, Mr President, for two minutes. It seems that the whole controversy, political and entrepreneurial, which existed in the previous period, results in a compromise both in terms of the number and in terms of the competitive process. This compromise is, in our opinion, being served by the recent decisions of the PSE and the government declares that there will eventually be a competition and that it is justified, while New Democracy refers to the number, which is not the original number, of licences and which also appear to be entitled. This also serves, in our opinion, by deducting substantially a category of licences that are supposed to be auctioned with other changes, such as the one made in Article 6, which says that any control carried out by the new owners should comply with the Euro-Union rules and the freedom to move capital, that is to say, that there should be no effective control, because that is where it leads to invoking the European Union's sacrosanctity and loyalty. Even on the issue of denomination of shares you keep exceptions in relation to foreign anonymous companies, for which no denomination is provided and of course for listed companies. The fact is that this reform has nothing to do with either real information and entertainment for the people or with the protection of workers' rights in the media. Of course, that's the one aspect. The other is the attempt to bring the press and media market together in even less hands, to close, with the ban on postal fee subsidies, the provincial press according to what the OECD toolbox tells you, which you once conquered for historical newspapers, such as Crete in Chania, the newspaper "AFFECT", which closed twice, one junta and one that will now be closed on your days. That is why the JRC has tabled an amendment to this draft law, which calls for the abolition of Article 40 (a) of Article 4487/2017 and for the reintroduction of the provisions of paragraph 2 of paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 of Article 16682/2011. That is all, Mr President. Thank you very much for the time lamentation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u28	Good. We continue with the special speaker of the Independent Greeks Mr. George Lazarides. Mr. Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot leave the position of the Vice-President of the Committee on Civil Liberties, who once again commented on the banks in our country and made comparisons with Europe, and so on. I would like to remind my fellow Member that in no country in Europe the governments have closed banks, unlike their own period when the Samara-Venizelos conflict decided and closed three-pillar-pillar banks in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u30	Our own policies imposed capital controls? Your political choices imposed them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u31	Of course, you have taken care of it, Mr President. You have spoken and you will have time to answer. I have not interrupted you, despite the fact that I considered and find what you said unacceptable. You should do some self-criticism. The banks, you shut them down. You booked a bank that had no problem with the Post Bank. He had the best factor between loans and savings. It was at 60, when the indicator was considered to be in trouble with a bank, it must be over 100. And you managed to book the Post Bank.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u32	Let's go to recycling now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u33	It was one of your'successes', as well as the fact that you have managed and brought an amendment here and made the grants you had promised inappropriate. If that's what you think is honorable, what can I tell you then? You judge your "self". The behavior of your party, I mean. For Christ's sake! I have no personal reproach for you. I mean your party's behavior. It is unacceptable to submit future grants and when it comes to paying the instalments to the bank so that the bank cannot seize them, you have brought them into line here and you have made them irresponsible. That is the definition of the scandal. You're judging for all these actions. The same goes for maritime loans. So you closed those banks with the sea loans.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Lazarides, you won't have time to talk about the bill after.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u35	I will speak, Mr President. But I have the impression that I can say what I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u36	What you want to say. I would like to point out the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving me the opportunity. I cannot, however, comment on this because the honourable Member has already commented on the banks. I'm responding to comments. It is not my choice to make some comments on the banks. And here I close and move on to the bill. And let's not forget the sea loans. One party owes 240m euros and the other 220m. In fact, the Vice-President has asked you to give these loans away, because the Civilian Representation cannot work any differently and democracy is at risk if the Civilian Anti-Population Party is not working. Statutory perceptions. Identifying a party with the functioning of democracy is a state-of-the-art concept. Anyway, I'm moving on. I would like to begin, Mr Minister, by an amendment that I tabled, and I would like to pay a little attention to you. It is the amendment with a general number of 1325 and a specific number of 160. Because, Minister, I am aware of your sensitivity, I would like you to see it carefully in order to protect the habitats that protect stray animals, care for them, etc. In fact, under the terms we are putting into operation, in terms of fence, etc., we are not in breach of the GMO. We're not making any violations. Just these old facilities are there and suddenly with the extensions of GSPs were found at a distance less than predicted distance, which is 50 meters. I would like you to see it sensitively, Minister. Thank you. I'm going through the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now being called upon to put in place and vote for a bill that intends to regulate a new framework of equivalence in the environmental market, with the aim of improving our environmental awareness, with many incentives and tools for the proper processing and management of recyclable materials. The social and public resource of recycling must be exploited rationally and with full transparency, and it is up to us, as a state, to ensure these rules for everyone's benefit. The main point, therefore, which is provided for in the rest of Europe - and what we are targeting as a country is the recovery, recycling and reuse of 50% of waste at local level, which, apart from screening at source, is the obligation to separate the collection of the two building materials. This bill supports and is based on self-government. It was before, but the role of the municipalities becomes more decisive. It is the primary self-government that has exclusive competence, which is recognised with a view to further strengthening. This is based on local management plans drawn up in the context of regional plans and national planning. On the basis of this regulation and on the basis of the local management plan, all the co-operations of the municipalities with alternative management systems, with the social and solidarity economy, the COMCOM and any other activity can be developed within society. In addition to the meetings, in particular, at the second hearing of the bodies, the expectation of local society to build the same systems and to be able to divest the materials they collect to have their own revenues and to support their project, organise their own management of municipal waste. With regard to the link between the economy, recycling and self-government, our aim is to make use of recycling resources for the benefit of societies, but this was not done with the previous legislative framework, which was anachronistic and which had an upgrade. The main objectives are to reduce burial, strengthen the role of municipalities, use of resources for recycling, the smooth functioning of the market, the fight against tax evasion and fair sharing of responsibility, the strengthening and modernisation of the Recycling Agency, and the intensification of controls and specific measures to reduce plastic bags. For all this in the draft law, the tools with which we will be called upon to implement these policies and to limit disposable materials to society, in order to gradually lead to long-term goods. Very important provision is that the EEAN will now have a strong record, which has not existed until now, which will record all the activities, i.e. all the flows of solid waste. Through the Electronic Waste Register and the annual system version will evaluate municipalities each year, we will have an image from this register of all waste streams, to know if their contract catches a place, and of course it will be a media for everyone. It seems to us all to understand that we need to recover the materials we throw away and waste as garbage and gradually achieve the new national targets for reducing waste that end up in landfill. We welcome the fact that the Independent Greeks are making available the majority of the parties to contribute to strengthening the proposed draft law and the common view that a significant share should be given in the direction of the economy in the field of recycling and waste management by means of actions to reduce burial, strengthening the role of municipalities, rational use of resources, strengthening and modernising the Recycling Agency, intensifying controls and specific measures to reduce plastic bags, with the labelling of any problems of opacity and exploitation of a privileged position on the market, which appear in the alternative management, with fines where needed. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law is called on to reduce non-productive resources and rationalise the operating costs of the TENs, but also to regulate the issue of tax evasion and the lack of recycling in the country. The current picture of recycling, moreover, is not satisfactory and the aim of the bill is to strengthen recovery, recycling by 2020 and reuse at local level reach 50%. The Independent Greeks, as we have said in the committees, support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. Mr. Pappas, because I would not now like to interrupt the flow as there are two more speakers left, soon after you get the floor. If there is any clarification, you will remain answering it. Then I'll ask Mr. Famelos if he wants and we start with the list, where the first four are Mr. Michelonakis, Mrs. Rapt, Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Carras. Mr Ioannis Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are calling on the Ministry of the Environment to discuss a very important legislative initiative, the responsibility of which is the responsibility of the Minister responsible, Mr Famelos, who urges us, according to the title of the bill, to amend a monument of poor legislation, the famous'recycling law', No 2939/2001. It is the law that brought recycling to Greece for the first time in 2001 and introduced the concept of material recovery into our national network for the first time. The truth is, this law has failed, and even afflicted. Already for many, it is a typical example of a misimplementation of a ruthless law. As proof of this failure I feel the need to invoke some other element, besides that in Greece today, 2017, after sixteen whole years of the validity of this law, we continue to bury 83% of all our waste. What more can one say about the failure of this law? In this tragic and indisputable given, I support the conclusion that with regard to recycling, the years that have passed since 2001, we can safely call them lost years. We are talking about sixteen years of absolute squandering of resources and a large number of lost opportunities. Responsibility for this completely uncontrolled situation of lawlessness and illegality that was dominated by both the environment and the economy in the field of garbage management has been burdening all Greek governments since then. Because, in fact, most of these years, as you know, the place was governed by PASOK and the New Democracy gave me particular impression during the discussions in the committees where some of these parties were wondering where the tires we give for recycling, glass, copper and generally wondered where the contents of blue bulbs were going. This to me is a second demonstration of the failure of Law 2939, as passive and undeniable as the truth that we are burying on earth 83% of our garbage. Ladies and gentlemen, those of you who are wondering where the recyclables go and who belong to the parties which have managed the fates of this place, I can assure you that under no circumstances are you the only ones. No Greek and no Greeks know where the recyclables that they gather are going. But you are the only ones who have to know where these materials are going. Then, after sixteen years of the law's validity, no one in that country has any idea, any of our fellow citizens who are very responsible, ladies and gentlemen, decide to enter the recycling process, none of them know where the materials end up and whether their trouble is going to the rain, or whether their responsibility is being exploited by illegal circuits that are reliant on the environment. In view of the fact that in 2001 the only presumption on recycling, which has not changed, is the value and importance of screening at source, we can argue that citizens' confidence in recycling is the most crucial factor in its successful operation. To know, then, that their efforts are respected, it will play a decisive role in overthrowing this situation, so from 83% to try to catch up on the European average that is close to 35%. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not get tired of repeating from this Step how necessary and necessary consensus and understanding are in the critical national issues among all parties in the domestic political system. As also, I will not stop reminding myself that the best basis for building consent is the assumption of the truth. The truth has the power to unite. The admission of all of the failure of previous years should be the foundation for a real change, be our guide to how to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past. In view of this perspective, then, of the legislative initiative of the SYRIZA - ANEL for the Greek Recycling Agency, I choose not to dwell on the fact that this is coming with a great deal of delay before Parliament and I am moving directly to the wording of the most critical question that needs to be answered in this Chamber today: Is the solution proposed by the Government sustainable? In order to answer this crucial question, and in a responsible way, we should first consider whether the solution proposed by the bill is realistic. While, ladies and gentlemen, the provisions of Article 8 are based on the undeniable finding that local government is, in fact, taking the lead in the issue of waste management and is well-increased, Article 4 imposes a number of impediments and incompatibility, and it is certain that if anything else it will make the framework for participation in a TENs and ASEs suffocate. Analogous to another point in the bill in Article 16, the government is attempting to deal with a very real situation in a very tangible way. It provides for the establishment and functioning of a national system of information for users and consumers, which will significantly enhance efforts to address the generalised ignorance about the issues of recycling. As pragmatic as you are presenting in Article 16, however, you have not explained to us where the optimism is based that the unexplained tight timetables set out in the transitional provisions of Article 23 will be observed. So your proposal is judged on its realistic or non-existent basis. An additional element of the bill that will decisively judge the sustainability of the solutions it proposes is its clarity. It has been shown in the past that the ambiguities that intrusive the laws quickly turn into windows, opportunities to abuse their orders and sometimes lead to dead ends that cost Greek taxpayers very expensively. So while the clarity with which Article 12 promotes the concept of recycling in the areas of mass focus is exemplary, it is impossible for us to see that this bill is clear about clarity, since it provides for a number of ministerial decisions, which depend on the finalisation of details, which are not - you know - at all trivial, equal, and to a large extent on what is lacking. These are the ministerial decisions referred to in Article 2, paragraphs 18 and 19, Article 5(4), Article 6(2), Article 9(3) and finally Articles 17 and 21. Ladies and gentlemen, in our country, for many years, the practice of recycling has been treated as a fashion and the notion of the circular economy has been treated as a hobby, which is why we have been counting on the positive elements of this draft law the following four points: Firstly, the clear addition of the reference to the definition of TENs, the Alternative Management Systems, that they will now function exclusively to serve the public interest. Secondly, adding the definition of the manufacturer of packaging. As well as thirdly, the introduction of the concept and definition of ADRs, individual Alternative Management Systems, called as bodies and rights and obligations, to organise and operate on an individual basis and as an alternative management system. Finally, number 4 is the principle of extended producer responsibility, as introduced in Article 3 of this Regulation in accordance with Article 25 of the Treaty. Date of birth: 4042 of 2012. These are all steps in the right direction, and we recognise that because the Centro Association has entered into the debate on recycling with the political will to support a radical step towards changing the current situation, but also the good will to listen, evaluate and propose. In this context, and while we at the outset argued that, in relation to Article 6, the use of plastic bags should be considered by our committee, perhaps we should go ahead with the immediate ban on the use of plastic bags, finally following the information presented by the Minister and the explanations given to us about the jobs that would be lost, if we did not take care of the development of the industry concerned, we were convinced that the timetable and conditions set by the bill serve the ultimate objective of abolishing the plastic bag and they do so in such a way that neither companies close nor allow its use for a long time yet. I would like to close my comment with a reference to the role that the National Recycling Agency will be invited to play in this effort by Greece, namely to harmonise its stepping-up with Europe on the issues of environmental protection from human activity. It is equal to the responsibility of the National Recycling Agency for Citizens and Enterprises. It is not intended to add raisins to the companies already tested or, of course, to increase municipal fees. If we see that this happens to one or two, then we will know that the National Recycling Agency failed. The aim is to get the municipalities involved properly, to create new sustainable jobs, to protect the environmentally-friendly, consistent businesses and finally to understand the importance of recycling. Understand the role that this plays in terms of what environment we want to live, raise our children and raise our grandchildren. For these reasons, therefore, the Centres' Union will vote in the first place. On the amendments I shall be presenting in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u40	We arrive at the last special speaker, Mr. George Amyras, from the river. You have the floor, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, recycling, treatment of waste in a different way than we had used to for decades to say, in private, it is being treated positively. In practice, of course, we're behind quite a bit. The consequences of global pollution and the exhaustion of natural resources are something that we now see in front of us both in the physical field and in the economy and at social level. Let's not go far. In Greece of 2016, in other words, we paid a fine of EUR 34.28 million last year, because we were condemned by the European Court of Justice for uncontrolled landfill sites and waste disposal, for uncontrolled landfills. This allocation, in fact, of nearly EUR 35 million, was disbursed from the special budget of the Ministry of Finance, which is intended for the emergency needs of the ministries. So Greek citizens had to pay the marble for the indifference of some of our fellow citizens, for the indifference, above all, I would say, of the local government that has been making the wrong eyes, while everyone knew that the fine would come. At the same time that we are still fighting for self-evident reasons, I would invite you to make a little tour in the world, to see the good practices of other countries, European and non-European. Let's go see the Swedish method. It's really "two in one" the Swedes. In other words, they get rid of their waste, and through waste they warm up the inhabitants of their towns. In fact, not just that. They have now exhausted waste and are also importing waste from neighbouring countries, from Norway, for example, to warm up their cities. Nor do I need to say much about Denmark. We've been talking to the committees too. Denmark has dozens of state-of-the-art recycling and incineration treatment plants - some of them garbage - which also turn waste into energy and heating. Japan is the paradise of electronic devices. The Japanese have transformed everything into electrical and electronic devices. What are they doing there? There is a law which obliges both manufacturers and consumers to take responsibility for the recycling of their household appliances and pay a recycling fee. For example, when a small TV is withdrawn, the fee is 14 euros, for a refrigerator is 24 euros. Italy. Rome once, not many years ago, two decades ago, had terrible problems with its waste management. He had too many garbage. It was a situation similar to the one we used to be in the Greek cities. But the Italians put down the program, their plan, and proceeded with every five hundred meters of at least two recycling barrels, but also a fine for any citizen not separating the organics with the remaining waste of EUR 619. I have heard very rightly Mr Arvanitides speak of old tires that do not end up anywhere. Let me remind you that three or four years ago, if I'm not mistaken, in Drama some mistress burned hundreds of tires. At a time when it rained, toxicity was caused and hundreds of acres of cultivating land were bound by the toxic rain caused by tyres. So what are they doing in Canada? They use old tires for the playground, but also mix them with the asphalt to rebuild the roadside. So ideas, there are a lot of them. And in Greece there are several, many, I would say, worthwhile private businesses, which also make sorting and recovering materials. In fact, they move on an average above the corresponding European conditions at the level of recovery. However, I would say that in terms of culture, education, habit, we are in the trees and we eat oak and we throw away the garbage where we find out and not the rest of the Europeans. The statistics show the irreversible truth. In 2016, 15.81 kg per inhabitant recycled in Greece, when the European average is 110 kg. Think about the difference. Once 16% of our garbage is recycled, compared with an average European Union of 27%. Only 3% are composted, as against 15% of the European Union. So what do you say? We're far behind and they need a lot more moves. The other day I was in the Botanic, where I saw the uncontrolled dumps. I remember the President, Mr Kaklamanis, when he was Mayor of Athenians, had raised the matter as the first priority and it had been done at that time. The burning of these toxics had stopped and, in any case, the Municipal Police then constantly controlled these uncontrolled, small, I would say, "chemical bombs" five minutes from Omonia. I would therefore also call on Mr Kamine to go to the Botanic and, if he does not know how to deal with the problem, let me call for a meeting - I don't know who - with the experts to stop this environmental crime five minutes from Omonia. Let's go down. The environmental degradation of the botanical and white-growth type is not as far away as we think it is. If we put the corresponding Saronic environment, I would say that Athens, the capital, the Lefkanopod in general is in a cord of environmental threat and arbitraryness. Let's go see, now, the draft law. We, as we have told you in the committees, find it positive. We shall vote in favour. We believe that there are individual objections, which I will tell you and hope you can correct them, but, anyway, there is a rationalisation of the rational management systems. I would say that you are relying - and you are doing well - on the work of previous years, on previous governments and, finally, on some serious and practical rules, on the functioning of the ETS bodies, on alternative management systems, such as the adoption of operating regulations. I think that is not the case. The operation of the Electronic National Waste Producer Register is a positive element, because without this on what basis will you move into information? What statistical valuation will you do and what control will you do if there is not exactly this record of producers? As is also positive for the provision of public law principles applicable to public procurement in relation to the operation of the TENs. That is positive, Minister. The quantitative targets for recycling should be reviewed and updated at all times. While, on the one hand, it is positive that the municipalities take on or, in any case, give them a role in recycling and their ability to compile and implement their municipal waste self-determination and management, I fear that some of the municipalities will not succeed. They have neither the know-how nor the background. That's where they need help from the central administration. For us the principle of extended producer responsibility should be extended not only to manufacturers of packaging but also to other products, as defined in Article 2. I will give you some other objections, such as Article 4(3), which says that the status of the shareholder or partner of the ETS is incompatible with the status of shareholder or member of the management body, which carries out waste collection operations. I would say that this provision is narrow-minded. Why limit it? An undertaking could well also play the role described in the provision and the reuse of these materials and their integration into the so-called circular economy. We are all trying and this draft law sets out as a first, I would say, the basis of the promotion of the circular economy. I would say here that Article 4(3) restricts it, tightens it up. Furthermore, limiting the costs of the administrative costs of the ETS entities to 10% of the revenues I would say that it is restrictive, I would say it is problematic. It was also noted by the institutions at the second meeting of the Committee. That is not enough for some bodies. For some people it may be enough, but for others it's not. Why limit them and not allow them on a realistic basis to point out what the actual percentage of their administrative costs and, respectively, to move? I'd say it's counterproductive, that percentage, that ceiling. Now for the Collective System of Alternative Management of Excavations, Construction and Demolition Waste. Here we have the 'polluter pays' principle and not the producer's wider responsibility. If anyone thinks of all these areas that go and throws the balls, one would say it is this provision that is also restrictive and will not succeed much. We say that responsibility should be widened. Not only do the polluter pays, why find him and catch him now, on which mountain, on which ravine he throws them. We must also have the responsibility of the producer expanded on this point. The provisions of paragraph 6, Article 4b concern the three-month period for the EEW to reply and to grant approval or not to an AAS or AAS. After this time, the law says that it should be considered as approved. I would say that this provision is problematic. The EEW must exercise a control and approval role, regulatory, market surveillance of alternative management systems. Also, serious reservations we keep for the grade 1 TAs, as I told you earlier, to respond. The slow adjustment of the municipalities is found. Here we have several MPs who were mayors. Some have succeeded, some will talk to you about the weaknesses they have faced, due to a lack of resources, mainly but also know-how and competent staff, to respond to higher levels of effective work, studies and so on. The evidence presented at the ECHR inter-election meeting, which manages the gender dump, would say that it was quite documentary about what I am saying to you. In other words, of the sixty-six cooperating municipalities, the thirty-nine increased the amount of waste and only twenty-seven achieved a slight reduction. Ladies and gentlemen, the national waste policy is part of a country's sustainable development policy. It is also the basic instrument for protecting the environment. It is an excellent opportunity to train citizens not only on environmental issues, but also on health to themselves. Sustainable consumption and production creates opportunities for those who are obliged to turn environmental challenges into economic opportunities on better terms for consumers. If we improve the performance of waste management - I think there is a good step here - then we will also have a reduction in waste production and increase the rate of material reuse and recycling and create jobs, as business opportunities open up. For the plastic bag, for Article 6, I will allow my dear colleague, Mr Dannelly, to speak to you, who has previously participated in the formation of the European Rules of Procedure as a MEP. Let me say this. I've heard enough people say: ‘Wooh! Now the plastic bag should we pay it?’ But now you're paying her, dear consumer. You pay her and you pay her gold. The price of the plastic bag is incorporated into the final price of the product you buy, whether biscuits are either detergent or anything else. Ladies and gentlemen, I will speak on the amendments in my dentistry. I want to hear Mr. Pappa. Of course, I will point out this. I do not see in the amendment - and I say it now - whether you will give us the answer - a provision to check the candidates' 'from the outset'. Good. Let us know, Minister. We will vote positively from there, and I hope that something will change particularly in Greek education. You can't go anywhere in Greece and watch garbage everywhere. You can't go to the beaches and watch butts. If that's possible! In 2017, Greek beaches should have butts. In Canada you know the butts, they're reusing them to make plastic palettes. Here some people think sand is the ashtray of society.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u42	And the sidewalks and the asphalt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u43	Both the sidewalks and the asphalt and anywhere. We're not talking about it. So I don't want to talk about it being a cigarette butt somewhere, someone has smoked it. Can I talk about public spaces? These are the issues of education that will be needed - I fear - for many years and a strong effort from all of us, so that we too can become interlocutors of what we deserve: a clean environment, a sustainable environment and a cyclical economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr Amyras, and the consistency in time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, eighteen students and students and two educational attendants from the private high school "SCHOLIS XENOPOUOU". The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Poppa, you have the floor. The amendments normally have five minutes, but because yours is not an amendment, it is a small draft law. I'll give you ten minutes so we don't start fighting with the bells, etc. and then I'll ask Mr. Famello if he wants to talk or we'll start with the speakers and he'll follow. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I am sure I will not abuse time and thank you for tolerance and welfare in advance. Ladies and gentlemen, we are currently putting forward a series of legislative improvements, which result from an extensive consultation with the National Broadcasting Council on n.4339/2015. This amendment is of particular importance today, because after its vote we are entering the final straightforwards for licensing. In a few days' time, the publication of the contract notice will follow, and I would like to say that I am sure that by the end of the year, I do not think we will enter the next one, we will also have the multi-storey competitive process, which will finally make this disgrace from the television scene and from the country's institutional framework as a whole. We have reached these legislative improvements after exhaustive discussion with the independent authority, which has sole responsibility for conducting the diagnostic procedure, just as it was responsible for carrying out the diagnostic procedure in the original rules of Law 4339, which will be applied in this case. Of course, here I would like to say to the whole House, firstly by welcoming the positive position from Potami, that the National Broadcasting Council has been directed by people who have not only proposed SYRIZA, or rather by people who have very little proposed by SYRIZA and also by the other parties, and who have come up with some unanimous decisions, which I think all the democratic wings of the House should support, applaud and send a signal to all market participants that they will not find political dissidents to undermine once again the state's efforts to put an end to the violation of the Constitution. That is what I think will be very important. I would remind you that starting price of 250 million, a minimum number of employees of four hundred, which will boost employment in this fragmented sector of our economic life, the SME sector. More specifically, the amendment abolishes the category of information programme, namely whoever wants to have a news programme, must go to general content, that is to say, whoever wants to have a news programme must be involved in this competitive process and not be hoping for another, to get a news theme license. What does that mean? It means, I think, that the value of the licence is increasing and I am very optimistic that we will have very good results. The right to participate in the procedure will also have companies based in the European Union and in the European Economic Area in order to make their control easier. Mr Amyras, because you have made a reference before, it is a very thorough check that took place in the competition on 30 August, simply, in our opinion, with this amendment being further shielded. There is also an amendment, which, in our view, has very little chance of being implemented, but there is no problem in including it in the legislative improvements, which says that if no authorization is granted, i.e. if six interested parties, for example, are invited to take up a licence, the National Broadcasting Council is obliged to reopen it as soon as it is concerned. If, in other words, six licences are issued and awarded and a 'orphan' remains, the next expression of interest by anyone must be re-opened for the one licence which has passed since the first competitive procedure. It is clear to the law that for the entire period of validity of the auctioned licences no further licences of the same category will be issued. I think it is a self-evident arrangement, which ensures that, for the duration of the decade, there will be no violation on the part of the state of unilaterally agreed. It is quite clear, so - and that is why we had already started in the previous procedure, but finally it did not come to Parliament to be voted on and I call on those who have dealt with the matter of withdrawing it in their memory - what is the working time limit for channels which will not participate or participate successfully, while they are already operating, in the competitive process. This period shall be fixed at three months, either after the notice or after the licence, in the case of a channel which has participated and which has not been licensed. Of course - and here I think it was a wound which should not be opened up by the provision of the law - the change in the nature of the programme and the extent to which the channels operate to date are prohibited. I would remind you that there have been, unfortunately, more than once, canal phenomena that fell asleep with a regional permission and woke up with a pan-Hellenic, just through dark routes and pick-up phones. Then, of course, we did not have political uprisings and protests through television stations and television broadcasts. These shames were made because we also had a shameful composition and non-legal composition of the National Broadcasting Council by officials who exposed the state to their decisions and omissions. That was unfortunately the reality, ladies and gentlemen. In this sense, I would also like this step once again without half-wounding, without spins to say a 'bravo' to the people who make up the National Broadcasting Council, because they have taken far more steps as an independent authority than they had been in our country for many decades. We are at the last stages of the drafting of the notice, the process has been completed, unanimous decisions have been made both on the number of licences and on the minimum price set at the level of the price we have achieved in the last year's competition, and I think we are in a situation which is also on the part of the independent authority armed and unanimously unanimous, and in particular the terms of consensus in the political scene are being formulated. In my opinion, it is no longer the issue of making impressions. Nor, of course, is it offered for the favourite tactics of some who go to the'saw' method. They raise the tons, some to be impressed, to cut some videos and possibly play the channels and diffuse themselves online and, when voting time comes, they are placed positively. I think a little respect for the people who are watching us would not hurt. It would increase Parliament's authority and send out a message in all directions that things would change. Finally, I would like to make an appeal, which does not concern the amendments to which I have referred. We are heading for the rescue of the employees' fund in the press, the EDPS, a case that unfortunately some people considered to be lost. The fund is saved on the basis of the government proposal, as the ESA points out. I am very sorry to say, let them react and blackmail some publishers, again using as a shield - they think - the workers. They're publishers, unfortunately, who were used to free, free, free-of-charge, free-of-payments. This thing can't go on. Here I would like once again to appeal to the political world to create a wall against these logics. There can be no such suffering, no battle with the institutions, so that this fund can be saved, and here too, we can give or close our eyes to such logic. The silence isn't gold either. He wants clear positions, responsible, of all political forces, ladies and gentlemen. We are therefore particularly addressing the MPs and the opposition parties, and we are calling on them to accept the amendment on the licensing of television stations and on the regulation of the ERCEA to support them. Before I come down from the Step, Mr President, let me simply put the letter from the National Broadcasting Council in the Minutes, which has also recorded the agreed legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u46	Have you submitted the arrangement for the EDPS?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u47	No, we're saying he's coming. I'm not in charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u48	He'll be here next week.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u49	I'm not in charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u50	The Minister has informed us, and on this subject he will not open up a debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u51	No, don't open it. I think, Mr President - and I have concluded with this - that there is a great opportunity here really to become a great incision through wide-ranging political consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u52	I shall give the floor to Mr Karathanasopoulos, because he participates in a committee that meets. He will not make use of the whole time of his speech as a Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, only three minutes on this subject of the amendment and after it is over by the committee, he will come to continue. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much. And this amendment, which Mr Pappas brings last minute and late, is part of the overall debate, which is taking place in the last few years - the most important intercourse we want to emphasise - for the control of the media, papers and electronics. In fact, the government is actively involved in this dialogue in order to form such an environment for more friendly media in support of government and government policy. After all, every government has sought this with the private media, that is to say, the media in the business to businessmen and, of course, the interests and policy of the system, are disorientating and manipulating the world, because, anyway, public television has always been - and now, it is directly linked to the interests of the individual government policy. So it is another amendment, Mr President, which normally serves the rulers, now and aspiring. Here we want to stress that, even in the summer, the Minister will not say so - he has brought in another amendment which, once again, served the interests of the Canadian authorities. The three-year dose for the price made it ten years, over a decade, i.e. he will pay the price if the decade ever arrives, because the laws change and you know it very well. Secondly, it has no restriction on the composition of workers on each channel. So neither collective agreements nor anything, freely allowing the hands of the canal authorities to choose how it serves them what composition they will have at each channel, of course, at the expense of both journalists and technicians and all these workers working in them. So, in other words, a further facility. Today this facility is continuing. What are you actually doing? Increasingly, you concentrate the media and control of the media, abolishing the thematic licences. What does that mean? That those who get the general licenses will have the piece of pie and advertising and information. So only seven. Third, what are you doing? You are ensuring that, as far as licences are concerned, there will be no other permits for ten years. So it's certain that those who entered the game, they'll stay to the end and have the piece of the pie. Fourthly, you also facilitate the participation of offshore companies in equity, offshore, which are licensed by the Member States of the European Union, the single European area. In essence, that is to say, control is formal and not nominal, because no account is taken of these foreign companies, because it is not allowed by European law, nor is it much more for companies listed on the Stock Exchange, because it is forbidden. So, in essence, you are further facilitating the interests of the canals and the aspirations. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Pappa, if you want to stay in our company, stay, or you can leave. Mr Famelos may be given the floor after the fourth speaker. The floor will then be taken by Mr. Michelovanakis, Mrs. Rapt, Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Karras. Mr Ioannis Michelovanakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the law passed in 2001 emphasised the producer's principle of liability for the product it produces, i.e. it is responsible, like the importer, for the cost of managing the products when they become waste. All operators are obliged - so it was - to organise or participate in alternative management systems that do not distribute profit to shareholders. Today there are twenty-two approved systems. We did not, however, achieve high recycling rates. The numbers are indicative. 81% of municipal waste results in landfill sites. In Greece in 2016, 15.8 kg per inhabitant was recycled, when in Europe the average is 110 kg. That's all he says. Moreover, the quality of recycling is not good. In other words, quantitative and qualitative criteria are not going well, so that business activity and resurgence are not fuelled. Nor was there a serious record. This is another issue, which is very important, by the previous law. There is an excessive accumulation of economic resources in the reserves of alternative management systems. This is money from producers who have finally passed on to the price of products. So where are they going? To the consumer himself. So we have bank reserves, and there should be a rewarding benefit for the citizen. There is also a huge parasitic economy in this area. Many have enriched them here with the side effects of the law. The Recycling Agency was too late to be set up. It is one of the big weaknesses of the system. Our aim today, with the new law, is to quantitatively increase recycling, as is the qualitative upgrading. The municipalities will decide with incentives and counter-incentives, with a financial fee, with provision for the provision of resources from the management systems with an annual ceiling of 35% of the annual revenue. Now, in order to combat producers' tax evasion, we have the ban on trafficking in those who have not been registered in the National Producer Register. The checks and fines on the TAs must finally work. The reduction of the plastic bag - as described - the strengthening of the Greek Recycling Organization, both in human resources and the organization, organic recycling (household, neighborhood or municipal) and bazaar rules for their exploitation are all very serious issues, which have to work with the new law. Our aim, in other words, ladies and gentlemen, is to save resources, reduce waste disposal, increase consumption, the social economy in its essence and employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u56	We too, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Rapti has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a very important bill on recycling. It is perhaps regrettable that we are still discussing issues and practices that abroad are applied management methods, without the need to be imposed on them by any framework of European legislation. Our country's performance in recycling does not allow us to be optimistic. The fact that we are twenty-six in twenty-eight European countries probably shows that recycling is not a national priority. Having requested an extension of five years to achieve the 50% target in recycling recyclable goods is even more burdensome for the country's commitment to the implementation of European legislation. The fact that more than 80% of recyclable materials and organic waste is still going to HYTAVs affects our environmental consciousness, exposes and divides Greece, has negative environmental effects and, of course, has an end date. We are not even in the middle of a European measure, and it is a real pity that we are still discussing, rather than having established active policies on this issue. Remember the subject of the plastic bag, how many years we've been talking about changing. We hope this time that the objectives will be confirmed within timetables. Furthermore, recycling is not only the deposition of various materials in special containers, but mainly the creation of citizens who consume by measure. The Greeks are said to consume the resources of the earth at a rate of two and a half times greater than the rest of the people. If we do and recycle with the same negative statistics, then it is probably expected that our country will rank in the last positions among the European states. Those who have travelled abroad know that the plastic bag has almost been replaced by paper. So we're not going to make a revolution or open up new roads. We are probably discussing the application of self-evident. Let's go to the Ottas. That is where the management of recyclable goods and waste begins and ends. The municipalities have the responsibility for recycling and collection, and it is true that they are trying to cope with a great deal of work with very few instruments. Of course, the results are proportionate. So let us not be surprised by the moderate statistics. Whoever we've been through local government knows what's going on. Recycling bags, which unfortunately are not everywhere and never enough. Complaints about dumping organic waste in blue bins. Dispose of recyclable waste from lorries. Composters given by the dropper. This is the image of the 21st century. Instead of achieving European objectives, we are indifferent. We consider recycling to be unnecessary and therefore we are constantly postponing its implementation. We recycle whenever we remember, or when we read an unpleasant report on the environment. We have not yet managed to make recycling a permanent habit of our lives. Municipalities must have an increased role in this need, but also the corresponding funding. They can do the job better than anyone, because they have the network, the know-how and the experience. The state must move smartly and directly by supporting municipalities so that they can produce the desired results. Mayors know several foreign practices in relation to recycling, which could well be implemented in Greece as well. I will mention, for example, that in Belgium citizens buy from the supermarket the bag they will use for recycling, with revenue going to the municipalities. In fact, bags are transparent in order to control their contents from those who collect them. In order to do this, however, we need a good organisation and ingenuity. There are ways of financing environmental policy. There are good practices that we can borrow from other states and thus increase the rates of recycling. We just don't dare. We're clipping, too, like so many others. As far as the National Recycling Agency is concerned, it is certainly good that there is a qualified recycling body. It's just, I don't know how much use it is to make him gigantic and bureaucratic, increasing his organic positions. You know, when there are such decisions, our minds go to election. We hope that's not the case. I also see inconsistently the lack of provision for the submission to the EEW of an alleged appeal, which essentially deprives the wrongdoer of his right to be heard before his infringement is determined. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot treat modern European citizens and have so much distance from Europe in recycling practices. We cannot always be part of the bad European statistics and I cannot, of course, agree with the Government's choice to ignore the essential problem, which is waste management, and only focuses on recycling. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] The bill could be positive, but the government found a way not to. It is a pity, because its social, economic and environmental dimension is extremely critical. Obviously, no one can disagree with the need for efficient management of the recycling problem. As long as this management is carried out by system and commitment to specific objectives and timetables. But no one can share the unjustified euphoria of the government, which presents recycling as an automatic process, when we all know that its success abroad, in much more disciplined social systems, has taken many years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. This draft law moves to the logic of overregulation, excessive state intervention, the absence of addressing the problem of organic waste and ignores the problem of the management of Attica waste. He's making little improvements, but he's actually looking at him, not the problem. That is why we are voting against it in principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Loverdos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u59	Mr Secretary-General, I did not intend today to take the floor, but the Poppa amendment brings me to the Chamber and what my colleague said in his speech. Look. Only one phrase for the EDPS. It is very problematic and unworthy of a member of the government who created the problem of the EDPS - while the previous governments had all refused, I was the first against the EDEAP regulation introduced by the Troika, with convincing arguments, serious arguments, no customers - it is regrettable that the Minister of Government who accepted the troika's suggestions is coming to tell us how to save the EDEAP, while the government has its regulation destroys the EDEAP, and it is a question of whether anything can be done. He destroyed it without even giving him a transitional period. So let us bring in the amendment that can help and that is where we will be placed. Introductory triumphs by someone who created the problem are political indebtedness to be articulated. Now, for the Minister - he left after he was speaking out - I have to tell him that he is the very best, most generous sponsor of arguments in opposition. He is a minister for the same purpose for three years and is constantly giving arguments of opposition, reasonable, ludicrous, serious and responsible to opposition with what he does. The President, all Members of this House know what the amendment is. One amendment is coming to correct, complete, confess, when it is obvious, and to attempt a overthrow and, in any case, to change the legislative framework in another direction than the previous one. What is the predominant of today's Pappa amendment? It is the law that you voted for in the majority with cheerings, about two years ago, in October 2015, ladies and gentlemen of the Co-population. Is today the correction of a sinner or the completion of a law? Is that what you're doing? I recall in your parliamentary memory what has happened. You asked for it to be a law that would put order in the television and radio scenery. Its basic article is cancelled one year after the Council of State. There have been three or four amendments from this Ministry to hold the competition, meetings of the Conference of Presidents, where the Minister, the Government in general and the Members of the Chamber of Deputies, as such of the PSE, objected to, and today, an amendment with twenty changes to the Pappa Act. Is that an amendment? And he is most critical of this practice. It is a practice of arrogance, postponements, delays, failure to implement the basic objective and its own and law and the majority in words. Instead of saying that he made mistakes and humbly try to explain the changes, he brings twenty changes to his own law with recommendations from the National Broadcasting Council and tells us that now the road that he closed with his obsession and his wrong arrangements is opening. And because he is being criticised, he begs, he begs the pro-government press to attack critics. That's him! And he's coming here to tell us what? What is it that will speed things up? To tell us that he corrects his mistakes, that he listens to the PSE, which he has not yet solved any internal problems. I have asked him and personally to do it not only myself, but also the other political forces in the country that are today opposed to the majority. He's done nothing. He leaves people with loose ends. He's necessarily listening to them to avoid cancellations. It has been created by an amendment that it has not received an opinion - as is required - by the National Broadcasting Council, conditions to overthrow its law to the Council of State and again by those protesting. He has set up a process that is once again dreamy - it is Pope 4, Pope 5, against the former and the original Pope - and he tells us that we will now move on and vote on it. We have no confidence in his legislative initiatives. The past for Mr Pappa is relentless and will be judged for the future. It will be judged not only by the political arguments we exchange here, but also by the Council of State and the courts. Because we hear again that protesting people are appealing. We'll see about this. I would like to close my position, ladies and gentlemen, with a reference to a proposal made by the National Broadcasting Council, which deals with the price and led to its own Ministerial Decision on the basis of a start-up base, for which he has done a great deal here in his previous speech. The money for each licence is determined here in an opinion of the PSE at 35 million. The multiplication of authorisations on the amount of the aid is approximately the amount reached in the 2015-2016 tender. Listen, ladies and gentlemen. That contest ended in this amount because there was a "SYRIZA Bank" that was powering and because there was a "ladder", as he said after the competition. He came out of the competitive process and said that "I was a rabbit to raise the sum, let the government take advantage of the money it will get for the sake of the poor and the hurt". The 'bulk' and 'SYRIZA Bank' lead the amount somewhere. Based on where this amount was led, we are told today that this will be the starting price. The market, I don't know it. I also respect the PSE, but also anyone who has a elitist argument. We will see in the course of things if all of this is done by words. Once again, the government is judged by reality and not by the words of counterpopulation. Life judges the government, life controls the things of a government and secondly the arguments of the parties in the House. The reality gives each one of us dimensions in the course, not his words or even the words that are critical of him. We are building up a method of aalum of legitimation. We underline the political crises and the constant changes in a law for which, when it was passed and when it changed, some applaud at the expense of themselves since they change themselves. We reiterate that this is not the last phase before the competition takes place, we will have more, we will have other changes here. And we are unable to deliver a serious, substantiated opinion on something that at last promises a competition, while there is still no competition. The government is judged by the inaccuracies, by its regressions. Opposition highlights these inaccuracies, underlines this inconsistency. As far as this provision of law is concerned, our opinion will also be expressed following the debate, but in advance I urge to tell you after the Minister's speech that these are not serious things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u60	Mr. Karras has the floor, an independent congressman.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u61	Madam President, by taking over the law we are discussing today, I see that it puts the burden on the recycling of mainly municipal waste. On the contrary, in the sense of the other products referred to in Article 2, it leaves too much gaps. However, the management of municipal waste, urban and household waste in general is also the responsibility of all other products. I should like to give a series of examples: it is hospitals, industrials, such as land cleansing, and many others, from which waste is produced which others can be treated, but it is impossible and must be managed so that it becomes non-hazardous and can be safely disposed of in predefined spaces. This general outline has therefore led to my thoughts in another category of waste, which - particularly in Attica - is a major issue in the category of waste from excavations, demolitions and constructions. This, of course, does not seem critical at present because there are no set-asides for waste collection, no major public works are being carried out, so as to say that we have excavation products that we have to manage. However, it is necessary for management to function in this direction, even in small quantities, why? Because the polypathic Attica is surrounded by mountain tumors. These mountain tumors on the timeline have become the subject of quartz exploitation, we still have examples of wounds in the mountains perimeter of Attica. Efforts have been made and they have failed in the main reason, and I will say that then. I think it is time, when we talk about environmental policy, when we talk about restorations and replications, to see the environment as a natural factor and a factor in life itself. So there comes a state body - why does the EEAN typically exist, but I do not think that he could - luxurious, if you would like my opinion today, the National Recycling Agency, which, in itself because of the series of addresses of the divisions of powers overlapping, will lead? The irresponsibility and inaction. It has nothing else to provide, because when responsibility is spread, we are leading to irresponsibility, when responsibilities are spread, we are driving to inaction, and I do not want to think that many times this is an active cause of corruption, because to act or act, we must have other motives. I'm leaving it in the band. I shall therefore return to the question that I raised at the outset. We live in Attica, we live on the Athens basin, and we need to receive full restoration provisions. It doesn't matter whether we're in a period of economic crisis or not. I'll give you a personal experience. The first time that I discussed and understood the issue of Attica's slow quarries and mines was in 1985, when it was consulted in my office, if these restorations could be incorporated into the then adopted law, Law 998/1979, on the protection of forests, which contained no provision in respect of these activities. So we arrived in 2000 - and the Minister will allow me to return to this point - so with the orgasm of the Olympic Games we had to find places to throw the products of excavation and open the Attica Road, to get to the airport and the great Olympic projects to build and, if you like, to the band - another personal experience, you will allow me to convey to you - the continuing refusals of the so-called Athens Regulatory Plan, which had a luxurious environmental dimension and denied everything. We have therefore arrived to appeal to the Council of State and to ask that - and he has gladly judged - that he was not fully responsible and organised in this legal person of public law and that we have overcome this stumbling block. But there was a cause of enrichment, corruption. Who was that? Nearly all mountain tumors were granted to large construction companies to discard the waste, the waste which was produced, and while there was typically a legislation, this legislation has never been implemented and led to the enrichment of a number of cars now in the sense of the ticket, which would have been an inactive quarry, while it was already the ticket paid by the public body, in the programme, within the contract for the execution of the project, to pay a ticket, which would now end up with the same ones, which would have sent it there to reject. But today we have an image. We have a record of fifty-four slow mines and quarries in Attica. Of these few are truly restored and we need to use them as waste disposal sites but at what price? And here I would like to draw the Minister's attention, for this reason, to the fact that the legislation also provides a special burial fee, which is now deterrent to these land restoration activities, for the reason that it requires soil, common soil treatment. What's going on in the common soil? I read to you, if I may, the provisions which say that the bodies or undertakings which have a landfill area the waste classified in the various categories, including code 17 of the national waste list, which is the mere land, are - fortunately, not yet activated - with a special burial fee per tonne of waste, which is set for the current EUR 35. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I ask, then, whether we will be able to proceed with the restoration of those wounds that we live around us, which we see, which stop the visual image of the landscape, which stops the natural continuity of biodiversity, if we do not receive, and by this law we still provide for the regulation of this situation, which has been maintained for decades and no one cares about it? My view is that regardless of any public works legislation there is, the government must stand up and take the initiative to coordinate this process, not to leave it in the hands of experts, as has often been left, so that, if we go for a walk, even in Liosia, we can see a good result that has arisen. Because otherwise - I will say this and I shall end - there each twirtsman goes and throws away any waste he has, so that it does not lead to a legitimate disposal site, so that it does not pay an end, and in the end there is an outbreak of contamination and environmental degradation. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u62	Mrs Inglezi, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor from the Halkidiki Prefecture.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that the amendment by the Minister for Digital Policy, Mr Pappas, should finally become a competition for television licences, so that we can finally have licensed television channels, which will pay for the public good they are operating. However, I will insist ecologically and focus on the equally important recycling bill. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a draft law which re-establishes the conditions for the organisation of recycling in the country and is therefore a positive institutional instrument. We are talking about recycling as the predominant model for waste management, both politically and economically, socially and environmentally. National solid waste management policy forms part of the country's sustainable development policy. Recycling within the circular economy is an integral part of the country's fair growth and productive reconstruction. The use of resources in a way that respects, protects and maintains the environment is a one-way for economic growth, in terms of sustainability and the creation of jobs with sustainability characteristics. The national waste management plan that has been in place for two years marks a shift in solid waste management. It is based on the recovery, recycling and reuse of 50% of waste as opposed to the current disappointing 20% at local level to the limits of the operation of the municipalities and the local society and the economy. In the context of the source sorting, the obligation to separate biowaste is now included. The aim is for landfill to be the last option and to have been limited to less than 30% of all solid waste, and today it is the usual practice for 80% of waste. The new waste management is closely linked to the circular economy. It forms the conditions for the development of new technologies and the development of innovation, while at the same time producing new jobs. This is a model of quality different from the impasse environmental and economic plan followed by the country over the past few years, and it is in complete contrast with the logic of large and expensive projects, substantiating the OTAs, launching municipal fees for years and multiplying the European fines that the taxpayer would pay again. The change in the solid waste management model is therefore also a fundamental change in the production and consumption model in our country, for which we lay the foundations. It aims at the social transformation of production, the transition to an economy of social needs that uses resources efficiently and is environmentally friendly. The aim of the bill is to strengthen recycling. In 2016, 15.8 kg per inhabitant were recycled in Greece, while the European average is 110 kg per inhabitant. After sixteen years of the first recycling legislation, we are at this disappointing point. We are all called upon to change this situation, ladies and gentlemen, and to change it. To change it first and foremost in the understanding of each and every one of us, to change it in the understanding of our fellow citizens, to change it in the perception of local government structures. Municipalities are a key lever in waste management, and this is in many ways also formulated in this bill, but also in the ECHR. They have a key role in the recycling project, with local plans and objectives for each LAG, which are drawn up in the context of regional plans and national planning, and which are the guide to recycling in each region, with incentives and counter-incentives, but also modern cleaning regulations and a defined framework for cooperation with the social economy. The aim of the bill is also to strengthen the operation of alternative management systems so that they can substantially enhance their recycling and exploitation for the purpose that they are created and not for other commercial purposes or for the creation of reserves. This bill ensures that the resource of recycling, which is a social resource, is used for the benefit of the societies that pay it and return to them. That is why it is necessary to rationalise and make maximum use of transparency in its management. In addition, there is a specific chapter in the Act to strengthen the role of EEAN, the National Recycling Agency and its staff and in terms of its structure, i.e. in the areas related to control, its relationship with local authorities and, at the same time, its competence to control the functioning of recycling is strengthened. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close by saying that the measures envisaged to reduce the use of the plastic bag are very important. This is an issue that we have already discussed in detail with colleagues in the Special Standing Committee on the Environment, and it is important to integrate the European directive and by legislation. I do not want to refer to the damage caused by plastics in the natural environment, biodiversity and the preservation of species, nor to the self-evident nature of their use. I would like to say that this is an issue that highlights with particular emphasis the importance of informing the world, the importance of environmental education in schools, and the formation of environmental awareness in all of us, so that legislation, such as what we are discussing today, can be embraced by the world and the necessary change in the way we manage our waste if we want to have a future on this planet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u64	Thank you for keeping time, Mr President. The Minister for Digital Policy, Mr. Pappas, has called for the floor. Mr. Pappa, how many minutes do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u65	For a minute or two, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u66	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u67	I'm not going to trouble this House. I would like to say and remind you of the placement of the representative of the Democratic Incorporation: The price went where it went, because there was the first attempt in history to assess this rare public good, which, according to users, of the people who have private television stations create very serious economic gains. They write them in their lawsuits and ask us for tens of millions, because they lost a half-season show and confess that there is a very big financial result. The sum, which was expelled to 250 million, was a majority - I would say to the spokesman for the Democratic Alliance - Mr Marinakis and Mr Kyrikon, no one's lame. I understand, of course, the acquired speed at which the Democratic Integration is unfortunately moving - I owe her representative to take her as a collective place and not personally - but the speed acquired sometimes leads to artificial offsaids. They will continue, in other words, to be run fora and with voices across both the regulations and the competition and licensing, but they will also be abandoned by those who think they were supported. Let the radios look a little bit at this morning, because I learned that one of the engaging enemies of the licensing process last year, a lawyer, was placed and appreciated that the competitive process would be completed. Be careful, if I understood - I admit it was not quite clear - from the placement of the Democratic Incorporation, from 'I swear - I vote' we went to 'I swear' right. So you recognize the right. And there's time until the process is completed. I would like to invite the representatives of the Democratic Association to read in detail the letter, which we received from the National Broadcasting Council, to judge it as such...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u68	And the next debate to tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u69	...to realize that we are with a regulator, which unanimously has come to some decisions, these decisions to support them and not to come here by closing the eye on what interests they want to continue for free. It's a golden opportunity. I welcome once again the positive attitude of the river representative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u70	Madam President, I would like to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Theocharopoulos, he was not personally mentioned. He talked about the Democratic Reconciliation. What can we do now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u72	I am asking you to speak as a parliamentary representative of the Democratic Alliance for two minutes. I won't talk on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u73	Here, Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I have listened carefully to what you said. I do not know if you have been informed exactly about the arguments of the speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Loverdus. What we are telling you is that, once again, you have acknowledged how wrongly you have moved in this area. If it had not been decided by the Council of State on unconstitutionalism and you had proceeded with your own logic two years ago, at this time all of what you said today is necessary - you said it 'because the National Broadcasting Council is saying' - it would not be the subject of discussion. We would have proceeded with a legalisation in this matter, which would not solve the problem. What we are telling you is that the unreserved situation in the broadcasting landscape that existed and had to be corrected has not been corrected all these years on your own responsibility. Your responsibility was not the National Broadcasting Council. And you know very well that in the Conference of Presidents we have helped to have a National Broadcasting Council. You attacked the Council of State when there was a decision on unconstitutionality of your law. And you come here today with an amendment - a draft law, as we have mentioned, with twenty-seven changes in your leg - I mean that the debate is taking place when it comes to an amendment - and we tell you that we have no confidence, as you are constantly bringing changes to changes, amendments to amendments. From the very first moment on, we had asked you to have order, but to have responsibility for the National Broadcasting Council. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would therefore ask you not to misinterpret it. Because with this responsible attitude we have contributed to the existence of a National Broadcasting Council today, to showing to the Greek people the problems of the original bill, the Pappa Law, which is now famous when you - your Government - and your government representative - accused the Council of State and arrested the judiciary for the decisions, which said that the number of four licences, arbitrary from the Ministry and not essentially from the National Broadcasting Council - what do you want to say, Mr Papa, is from the Institute of Florence when you took the proposal? - He's completely arbitrary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Theocharopoulos, we've spent all three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u76	We therefore say that there is a National Broadcasting Council. For our responsible attitude, we have no reason to give you more than any reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u77	To us? To the people!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u78	Mr Konstantinos Skrekas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Referring to what the previous colleague said, I cannot understand, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, anything about the circular economy in this bill. Because, when we talk about waste management and material recovery, we should eventually also talk about the circular economy and about how we will reduce waste, which we then have to manage, recover, recycle, and eventually some of it will end up in the dumps. So we, Minister, have to tell you clearly that, as a New Democracy, we do not support this bill in principle. And we do not support it, Minister, for this simple reason: because, although you have been preparing it for more than a year, it is unfortunately clear that you are bringing a bill which is both handy and which does not deal with important elements relating to the recycling of waste. I will give you an example. Where does he refer here, Minister, to the organic fraction? It refers to and what it says about how organic waste will be separated, i.e. waste and waste which is from food, etc.Huh? You're not saying anything about it. You're not saying anything about the excavation products mentioned by Mr. Karras. You say nothing about demolition products and construction work. You do not mention anything and yet, you want to bring us this bill and tell us that it is a bill that covers everything and that it comes to save Greece and double or greatly increase recycling rates, which does not do and does not do because it does not give solutions. Example: What are you doing in terms of creating competition and helping to create more collective alternative management systems? You don't do anything and you don't say anything. At the moment there are some management systems that many of them do their job well. But what are you doing to help introduce new systems into this area? For example, I also told the committee that you could, when a collective system of alternative management collects quantities to be recycled above the target, have the possibility of giving them in exchange for another alternative management system which is under creation, so help to create competition and not help the monopolistic situations, which in many cases have been created in this area. Try with a distorted, state-run and a way coming from previous seasons, check how alternative management systems work. You define, for example, some horizontal arrangements. It will not exceed 10% of the total cost. But sorry, the system that collects home batteries is the same, does it have the same needs and function as the system that collects car batteries? Is it the same and has the same needs as the system that collects mineral oils? Is it the same and has the same needs as the system that collects packaging materials? Do they have the same income? How do you put a 10 percent horizontal and that's what you're supposed to cover everything? The same for the reserves. You say that they should not have more than 35% of the annual income as reserves. Can I tell you what distortions this created? I have the information - and I would ask you to check it out - that, in a management system, in order not to go to the EEW the reserves, in the state, which had been collected for years, went to one year, this year, it spent all on television advertising and has financial effects which damage 700,000 euros, only because you had announced that you would limit the reserves and they did not want these reserves to go to your hands. Is this a way to improve the way recycling takes place in Greece? This state-of-the-art way? That way that reminds of Soviet times? Above all, we will not vote for this bill in principle. You are not saying anything about organic waste and the available materials, as I have told you. You legislate things that are already legislated and you could simply put them into practice. You're not predicting anything about the circular economy. You do not deal with farm and livestock waste. You don't say anything about them, like they don't exist. You're predicting a pharanonic organization of fifty two people. Listen, Minister, what you're doing. Today EEAN has eleven people. He has seven permanent and has four contractors. Of the seven permanent members, the three are seconded, who, under the law of mobility from April onwards, have to leave. You predict that all four permanent members, that is, eight, will have to in six months and another three-month margin, as you give yourself, approve the operational plans and operational plans of all alternative management systems, whether they come and will be established by the local authorities or the existing ones. Is it possible for eight people to do this job in three months? What does that mean? That we will simply have systems that operate and for which their operational plan will not have been effectively checked. But above all what I must mention is what you do with the big one, with the huge piece of garbage in Attica. You have brought a bill here, you say that you will give a solution to everything and do not tell us this: in a year and a half from today, ladies and gentlemen, the HYTA of the Gender is closing. And it closes because it doesn't have the ability to pick up any more trash. I ask the Minister and the government to tell us: in a year and a half from today, where will the Attica garbage go? Where are the trash in Athens going? Attiki is produced about 50% of the volume of garbage from all over Greece. Where are you going, Minister? What are you gonna do with it in a year and a half? Is that responsible political response? The previous government had predicted two factories in West Attica, seven hundred and four hundred thousand tonnes per year, with HYTAs next to and two factories in eastern Attica, Keratea and the Graphic. To end up with these plants, a competitive dialogue had taken place with all open technologies, environmental impact studies had been prepared, as I said - the tender issues had been finalised and Community funding for 140 million euros had been provided for. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Madam President. What are you gonna do in a year and a half? Because according to the new regional planning, which your regional authority has approved, there are four or five such schemes which, instead of a million four hundred thousand tonnes, will be processed a million tons, have not been permanently installed, no tender issues have been made, environmental impact studies have not been made, nothing has been done at all and in a year and a half the Athenians will be invited to live with the garbage to reach a skyscraper level next to their homes! We ask you again and we ask you in committee: What are you going to do with this huge problem, with this mine, which you have left for the next government? This demonstrates that you are not interested in giving solutions to the essential problems and you are spending time on issues which, in the end, are not going to be dealt with and implemented by you. And you know what reminds me and I conclude with that, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen? It reminds me of what Mr Tsipras said yesterday - the same practice and methodology is followed by the present Minister - for the social income of solidarity, that it was right and that it was done. I am presenting, ladies and gentlemen, the figures for 2014, December, showing that twenty-three thousand applications have been made for the minimum guaranteed income, which had been legislated and acted upon by the previous government, the thirteen pilot projects in thirteen municipalities and which had been included in the 2015 budget of about EUR 1 billion in order to extend to all of Greece. I should like to say what the minimum guaranteed income at that time, namely EUR 400 for a four-member family, was foreseen under conditions. I begin paying the minimum guaranteed income on Christmas Eves. I am making another point, ladies and gentlemen: what did you say at the time and what SYRIZA said about the minimum guaranteed income, according to an article in the newspaper 'HAY': 'Minimum guaranteed income, guaranteed poverty for everyone!'. Also, the Deputy Minister, Mr. Fotou, in 2015, said about the minimum guaranteed income: "It is a gift of the minimum guaranteed income for businesses and big capital, because it will lead citizens to work black to get this income!" That is why you have abolished it, Minister. I am also presenting, Minister, and the law, from which it appears that the ministerial decision had begun to apply to Greece. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Skrekas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What the Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, is now celebrating, is that it is fair and has to be done, that you have taken it, you have accused it, and you have canceled it, and today you are going to implement it. But what Prime Minister is this and what morality is it that keeps lying in front of the Greek people?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Screka, your time has passed!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u81	And do you think that a Prime Minister, who does not have the morality to tell the Greek people the truth, that makes the white one, do you believe that this Prime Minister, with these authorities, can get Greece out of the crisis? It cannot, ladies and gentlemen, so the sooner it goes, the better for the country and for the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u82	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended from the top Western theory, after taking part in the educational program "Research and we are discussing Governor Ioannis Kapodistrias", which organizes the Foundation of the Greek Parliament, twenty-three students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd High School of Ano Liosia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy has the floor. Mr Famelle, we will give you twenty-five minutes to talk about the amendments as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u83	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we are having an important debate today on recycling and waste, so I will not be indifferent to respond to a trade union-type speech like the latter, which was obviously held to stimulate the lost morality of the New Democracy. We are having a debate which can have benefits for society and the environment, and we must do so effectively. In the committees there has been a substantial debate and I must say that, regardless of what the rapporteur, New Democracy, has said, the institutions and systems have already accepted the substantial changes, innovation and the progressiveity of the draft law for a long time. But it's not just a bill issue. You're right. We need to create a new concept in our society of recycling and the environment. I have to start these substantial social changes that we are targeting. We're fans of recycling, because we're fans of a better life. We are fans of recycling, because we are followers of equality and justice among citizens. If we do not have a better environment, not all will enjoy the benefits of the better environment and better life. If we do not have a better environment, probably some who have the potential, will have better quality of life, such as some who have the potential, they could have better health conditions. But we disagree with the access of a few to the great goods, which are the goods of life. We want the environment, life, progress to be beneficial to everyone. That is, if you will, our main difference, the fundamental change that is taking place in our country today, not only with today's bill, but with all our contributions. We are very far behind the issues of recycling and ecological behaviour as a society and unlike European operation. I think we've all understood - because we're saying it's a one-way road that we have in front of us. All these years, however, this has not been implemented, although it has been a one-way road, although it has been a one-way road as a social attitude and an institutional obligation. We have left behind, and we have to make too many changes. These changes, despite the fact that many seem to have to do with the great values of life, which are the environment, health, the functioning of our society, have to do with quite a few economic elements of our society. Some people think that because landfills cost nothing - I mean municipal fees - we could continue the logic 'we bury it all in the backyard' and that it is something that will not have an economic impact on our society. This is a huge mistake, which I must tell you has also been made by previous governments in implementing recycling and adopting systems, because many ministers have been swept away from the pressures of producers, fearing that this gives rise to indexal changes, that is to say, to increase inflation and to the rate and avoid the introduction of the recycling fee because they underestimated what the environment means for the total cost and the total value of life. In other words, to the extent that resources are downgraded, to the extent that we have uncontrolled landfills, to the extent that we do not have recycling, even these costs that our society pays are greater, even if some see in front of them falsely that we have no direct costs. The same mistake was made with the political cost. The real, major political changes that had to be made and the waste were not made by the previous governments because they feared the political cost and now let them trade in this House safe. At the time when decisions had to be taken and problems solved, these decisions were not taken. That's why our country stayed too far behind and paid almost 50 million for the dumps, because the previous governments created this mortgage. The cost of life, the value of life, however, the value of the environment and the importance of the environment for Greece make us take measures and take policies that will be more ahead of Europe. Today we are the last in environmental legislation in Europe and the first in fines. Greece, however, has the possibility, because it is also its environment, not just to be the first in Europe to environmental legislation, but to be a source of economic, labour and social wealth production in the country. This change in social function, however, must be said to be initiated by society. We give the framework, give the example, give the trigger, give the ad, the vision of recycling and the recycling society. But this change must start with society. So we need conscious citizens. However, citizens obviously need environmental education to start from young ages. Obviously, we want recycling to be a key element in the operation of the whole public and social sector, all the moments of our lives talking about recycling, and that needs to be understood - if you want - and the new generation. But, on the other hand, we need credibility of the state on these issues, which were not there, because the citizen saw landfills and the administration creating them. We need a benefit to the economy at the level of work. It must create work for the environment and recycling. We need cleanliness regulations, which have not been implemented until now, because no one has ever applied recycling at the level of government, and obviously we also need the counter-incentives introduced by this bill. All this takes to have, if you want, an integrated framework. Of course, we truly understand that this bill creates new entrepreneurship in our country because of the resources that will be generated from packaging materials and the other products to which it refers. Because it is not all about waste management. I have so far heard in plenary about the remaining management of waste, but about the packaging materials and the products to which the bill refers, I have not heard anyone take responsibility for the fact that they have been behind for so many years. So I say again that the bill can feed in these areas an entrepreneurship and processing of a secondary product and at the same time reduce municipal fees. That's what we're talking about today. The bill has incorporated all the good European practices that were in existence and we use the European strategy not only to "pay as I fly", not only in the plastic bag, but even in the fact that for the first time collecting costs is introduced as an obligation of recycling systems. This is in the interests of both self-government and self-government, and the Commission asked for it, but so far it has not been implemented. Self-government has placed itself in a positive position in this debate and there has been a debate on the board of the Central Association of Municipalities, as well as on the committees of the House. But for the big changes it is not just a positive position. I am doing, if you like, this well-preferential and positive contribution on the part of the Ministry in today's debate to hear to self-government that major changes must be made by the OTAs of our country, by the municipalities of our country. Obviously, we should give resources and framework on our part. However, we do not throw the ball into self-government, but we recognise that it is self-government's responsibility to manage waste, municipal, public management, and it is a wealth for self-government to manage waste and must respond to this democratic choice to strengthen self-government. I have said that this bill gives local authorities the possibility of adulthood, but it requires the management of waste and recycling to go higher on the priority agenda. Self-government for us is not the long hand of the state, nor a mechanism to make office assurances. It must shape local quality of life and resource generation for local development. That's what recycling can do. But what's the bill on titles? First of all, it helps achieve the national and European objectives established by this government by national planning, which became an act of ministerial council in 2015. I say this, because I will then refer to a criticism that is being made about waste management, and I say in advance that this government has made national planning in line with the 2008 directive, because until then the waste management projects, which have evolved most of them into the process of a large-cost PPP, have been in conflict with the European Union directive and you know that very well, because that is why many of them have been rejected. At the same time, however, we do not just give the background to targeting. We give a stronger role to the municipalities and say that what each municipality plans is the gospel and give them incentives for recycling, we increase the resources for recycling these materials, packaging and other products, because so far the previous governments have allowed us to have 40% of the revenue from the debtors, so that we do not have equal competition between entrepreneurship. At the same time, we are supplying the smooth functioning of the market by stepping up the tax evasion and putting a fair distribution of responsibility, which even for the functioning of the economy has not existed until now. In fact, we are clearly intensifying controls and strengthening the Recycling Agency to check whether the recycling rules are being applied. How can recycling be supported in our country if we do not have a Recycling Agency to control the economy, the private sector, entrepreneurship, but also the social sector and the OTAs and whether the rules are applied? Who, then, are we going to assign the responsibility for recycling? No one's going to control it? Do you want the previous phenomena to be repeated again when the previous law was not applicable? I am saying this because one of the main problems of No 2939/2001 is that it has not been fully implemented and we have discussed this in the committees. Of course, at the same time, we are creating, if you want the plastic bag framework, which is very important, because we really need to reduce the use of the plastic bag. We have discussed this very much with producers, but also with marketing companies. Let us go a little bit more specifically, because I think that is what has been mentioned in the committees too. Let us talk a little about the objections that have been raised about the alternative management systems. Legislation and in Europe to a large extent has been chosen by producers to create companies that are non-profit-making, take the resource of recycling and have it for recycling. There are five basic changes. They have been mentioned by both New Democracy and the Potami and I would like to respond honestly and constructively. The issues that we are changing are, firstly, the incompatibility. We say, therefore, that in order for the system to be non-profit-making, it cannot be a shareholder in the system or an administrative consultant in the system, someone who has a management company for these materials, because he will simply look at his benefit rather than the operation of recycling. In practical terms, therefore, so as not to exploit the privileged position of the system, we say that it is incompatible with the management of waste and recyclables and exploiting them - and it is doing well with this entrepreneurship - that it is the same who collects the social resource of recycling and gives it the opportunity to exploit these materials because otherwise it exploits the privileged position on the market. At the same time we have said that the systems must have a small reserve fund and a small administrative cost. We cannot, for recycling, have more reserve than all the annual revenues of a system. If we have more available in the fund than we collect every year, it goes on to say that we do not have these resources for recycling. That's simple. We want these resources to be made available. If anyone votes in favour of a large reserve, it would appear that the recycling resources will remain in the recycling systems funds. So he probably doesn't want the recycling. In this dilemma you must answer. You haven't answered constructively yet. Do you want it to be recycled or do you want the previous regime to continue in which we have 82% in our country of burial with many fines? That is the question you need to answer. Of course, we're putting more than that. We say that the resources collected by the systems will be put on the market by means of a procurement regulation in the processing, transport, in whatever service someone uses, so that they are not given to any known system. That is why we say that anyone who owns the company should not have any shares in the system. Don't make a system just for his shop, but the system is made for all recycling, for all social and economic function. We are also introducing for the first time the producer supervisory body. In other words, they carry the consumer's resource and give it to the system - because it is a consumer's resource - to be able to intervene and see where these resources are going. This is very important. It is indeed a first attempt on the part of the market to the systems of social control. It's an intervention we're taking for the first time. It is quite innovative and we want to see how it works so that there is no gap in society or in the producers about what these resources are going to do. We understand that when the system is credible and fully transparent. But I think I have explained why we think it should be incompatible. To say it quite simply, this is to keep things from working. We want it to be clear and restored in society that the system is clean and honest. But, on the other hand, we are being blamed - because I have heard this - and I would like the rapporteur of the New Democracy to answer this - for a management burden which is created by these interventions and, on the other hand, to say that we have not resolved an issue that has to do with the conflict of interests arising from Article 18, I must admit that I do not understand it. That is to say, on the one hand, we are told that we have put a lot of tools to prevent conflicts of interest and create burdens on the system and on the other hand that we have not solved the conflict of interest in Article 18. You need to explain that to us. You probably have a conflict within you and you don't know exactly what you want to defend. But are there good practices? I am saying this because I have heard of good practices in other countries and have been a little jealous. We have good practices in recycling too. I have to tell you that and the House will know that. For example, the regeneration of lubricants, which our country has a very large share in relation to the burning of lubricants that Europe is doing, is much better. It is, in fact, a 'green' cyclical economy. We want to strengthen it and that's what we do with this bill. A previous speaker said that we are not doing anything about the circular economy. I told you the first example. The renovation of lubricants is a clean circular economy. That's what's going on with this bill, not someone else. I say it as an example. Secondly, Mr Amyras, and here we are using tyre materials to make children's carpets and to make them unsliding insurmountable. In other words, the examples you have given us for Canada are also applied in Greece by the tyre management system. Also, the blue bin the first space was an innovation. But we want to go to the next step. There were good practices, that is, but they have found their limits and have not been politically supported. For our part, we have heard everything that has been said in committee. We have limited the time for all the responses from the Recycling Agency. We have set an assessment of the Recycling Agency and an annual report to Parliament, with measurable objectives, to apologize to the public as well. On the other hand, however, I cannot accept a debate that says that the Recycling Agency will not be in control. That's not possible. We will have a Recycling Agency that will be strong and controlled and able to take the staff with an ASP. I cannot understand, in other words, why every time we go to make an organisation for the environment, we should apologise for having to have executives. The Industry Association itself has from time to time come to the Ministry and has called for environmental control mechanisms and public mechanisms to be strengthened, because a strong public in the field of the environment is doing good in the private sector too. And that's because it has the rules of parity and equivalency. Otherwise, it's "Far West" our economy. I guess that's what you're used to. But we must go the right way to our country. That's what we're trying to do, because we want recycling. A hypothetical discussion on Attica waste was expressed as a reaction from the New Democracy side. Be careful now what's wrong with them. What they were living for themselves, creating garbage in the streets, with huge management problems and problems in operation, with landslides - if I’m not mistaken - in Lios a hundred meters of a waste table - that had been done - charge it to us as a future scenario. So they're assuming that in two years' time this will happen. So they started opposition to assumptions about what is going to happen after two years. They no longer have any basis for having a substantial debate on what our country should do now and make a case for the future. So they ask what we have changed so we don't have garbage in the streets. I'll answer you. I have no problem answering. But the thing about garbage in the streets was you, we don't have it. You're the one who created them. And the landslides in Liosia, you created them. So what happened? First of all, national planning. Who did it? This government, by a cabinet act 2015 - here is the Minister who was then - because we did not comply with European legislation on waste management. Regional planning throughout Greece 2016, with decisions and FEKs for all of Greece. They weren't able to do it in a year. Did we do anything about recycling? The 2016 national report says that we had 13% increase - a double-digit number - and in the 2016 recycling, like all the other positives that are being made at this time in our country. Let's see some coincidences. Did you make a ministerial decision on the green points? There wasn't. Has action been taken on the environmental specifications of green points to make real recycling and sorting? There wasn't. Now that's what happened. Did projects have been approved? Can I have some? Should I say about the works in Chania, Hersonissos, Archanes, Fokida, Thiva, Zakynthos, Alexandroupolis, Peloponnese, Rethymnon? Have these been approved by previous governments? No, with this government approved by European logic, public policies, public waste management projects. Also, this government provided the Attica MIP of EUR 150 million for the Graphic, Schistust, already submitted to the EMCDDA. I wonder why they're looking for ghosts. It is really all I'm saying to you, because the previous governments had chosen not to have the Attica resources, not to do waste projects. This was also in the character of the administration of the Attica region at the time. While resources have been allocated to all other regions, resources have not been allocated to the Attica MAGP. EUR 150 million was now allocated to projects in Attica. Did their sadness have to do with the fact that many of the things I mentioned were works that were at the PPP and when Mr. Screkas was in the Minister's place? Is that why they're sad? Because of what I mentioned, a lot was, like Rethymnon, for example. Of course, I also know of the debate that took place in Thessaly, where it was elected, at the time and the great contrast with the district manager, so that there were no PPP projects in Thessaly, which were not finally done and were made public projects.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u84	Did you go to Kozani? Did you inaugurate Kozani?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u85	Also, to tell him not to worry, not only in Attica, the works were launched, but recently the licensing was completed and the Trikala and Carditsa units will be public work. So we will have a project to treat waste with European logic and your region. So don't worry, we've been ahead of time, and we've thought about you before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u86	In western Macedonia you inaugurated it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u87	Let me say here, of course, that there is also a sadness about Athens in addition. Let me say that the green spot and the local waste management in Glyfada, the green spot and the waste management in Aegaleo have already been approved. I also know that in 2017 the works will be approved in Peristeri, Nea Smyrni, Nice, to Rendi. I'm telling you big municipalities. I'm saying that because they're asking what's going on in Attica. All this will be approved, public works, with European resources, with European logic and recycling in the first place. These weren't until now. So we must admit that, as soon as you left, the projects were suddenly started, as you left, the European strategy was also implemented in the management of waste, because you failed to do so. And why didn't you make it? Because, with this government, the separate collection of organics has been put into national planning, which you ask us where it is. But we put it in a cabinet act. Why didn't you do it? From the time you left, the management of the organic and the obligation on composting and all the "17" and "18" measures of the EMCDDA took place in a year. These are the changes that have already been made. And it will also be in the institutional context - I have taken care of the next bill, which is coming - and we have already announced it. But it's not all union issues. I agree, the municipalities are a crucial issue. The municipality, despite having planning margins, absolutely - no one gets it from him and I say it for you, because you wondered about your location - must make substantial decisions to upgrade waste management without the need for approval by the EEAN. Because when systems collaborate, there's no need for approval. Because someone said it's compulsory for the municipalities to obtain approval from the EEAN. No, they don't have a management weight. They only have a management burden when they take over the percentage of national responsibility in their area. Then they will have to make a proposal, if they do not cooperate with systems, how will they take responsibility for their country. It is our responsibility, therefore, to make self-government possible. We don't throw away the ball. We're serious. It will not change the management of waste unless they take this management on their backs and municipalities, no matter what the function of citizens and businesses does. However, we have not removed obligations from other products, because that has been heard, and Mr Karras has said so before. I must tell you that we have systems both for non-domestic, where we have electrical business equipment, tires, batteries, batteries, lubricants and oils, end-of-life vehicles and AKKs, i.e. waste from excavations, construction and demolition. It is within the framework of this law, as is the social economy. And today, because this is an anniversary day that the report on the social and solidarity economy, our own initiative, must say, there is a matter with the plastic bag. Let's get this straight. There's a very big deal. It should normally be banned from using it as a political option. But we cannot make such a change without taking into account the economy and the functioning of our society. Today we have about four hundred pieces average per inhabitant per year regarding the use of plastic bags. That's a huge number. We'll have to reach ninety pieces. So we have to do this because we have a very large negative environmental footprint on our shores. We see it everywhere. We see all around plastic bags, on the mountain trails, on the bottom of the Greek seas. We have to go to a process that will lead to a deterrence at the end of the route. Preventing the use of the plastic bag. That is why we have consulted extensively on implementation, so as not to hurt production, to introduce specifications into production and to transform the Greek production and entrepreneurship of the thousands of workers, so that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u88	It's 12,000...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u89	Yeah, you're right, business's more like that. This must be done in order to strengthen Greece and not to change the marketing and the marketing process for the consumer. So what did we say? That any entry fee should return to the citizen. The citizen should understand that there is no tax in this process. At the same time, producers should not be forced to do so, but the work of the twelve thousand to remain competitive in Greece. So what do we do? First of all, we are introducing the procedure for the designation of origin of the bag, what we say enters the barcode. This was requested by the Greek industrialists and the Greek producers, because you say that we did not take into account them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u90	That's not what we said, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u91	These are the ones we have taken into consideration. Competitiveness is therefore strengthened, because all the no-name products that came from outside and low-quality plastics now have an identity. And we know where they come from and who'll pay for the recycling fee. That's not happening until now. So, if you like, the inconsistency so far, even if there was any imported smuggling of competition, is rewarded and the Greek company is strengthened. It is precisely the opposite of what the rapporteur in the new Republic said earlier. In other words, Greek companies are aided against a competition which was outside the specification or outside the limits. And, of course, any financial contribution from a debtor who has had to enter production so far and who has not entered it is not 3% to 4% of the cost, because there is still no price list. You're at risk for no reason. And, of course, when the plastic bag producers had come, they knew that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u92	Producers say that, not New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u93	And for producers - who say that they are called - I must tell you that this is included in the August ministerial decision. And after the Ministerial Decision of August, there was a press release on the part of the plastic industries, which I submitted to you in committee and I have given it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u94	Not for the cost. You're distorting everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u95	So don't create a false picture! We are improving competition for Greek businesses and helping them to change their production object so that it does not enter the producers, first of all the environmental end of the deterrent, because producers have asked to enter the retail trade. So we did good to the producers, because they entered the end-user, the supermarkets and the retailer of this deterrent, while assisting producers and against competition. But we must be careful. I have heard from the New Democracy's position that the bill is superfluous for what we say about recycling. Forgive me, but it is not too wise to approach the European acquis. It is not superfluous to make the environment in our country better. It is not superfluous to avoid fines. It is not superfluous to claim a better life for the children of Greece. What has been done so far in Greece has been negative in all sectors and in the field of the environment. I think there are good proposals from the debate. I will accept proposals made by the rapporteur for the Democratic Integration. First of all, I will accept the participation of workers in the Consultative Committee. You recommended it. It's going to be legal. We will also limit the possibility of correcting the business plan in retrospect to make the rules clear, but also to clear the authorisation of the business plan. These two were said by Mr. Dannelis in committee, and Mr. Arvanitides said so earlier. They'll be law-abiding by the end. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Madam President, forgive me, but I have to refer to the amendments very soon. As far as the subject of the forestry amendment is concerned, I will say two things simply. The first is that we allow, if you like, the legalisation of existing camps facilities, not only as it existed until now in protected forests but also in woodlands. You'll find it. It's an extension of an existing law that has an extension for camps that operate. The second concerns the ratification of forest maps, which is quite important. We're interested in everyone, because it's an effort that's been made all year round. The deadline for objections expired on 25 September. We are now giving a little more time to the services. Instead of ratifying these maps to examine obvious errors and redemption applications on 20 November, it goes for 20 December. In other words, we give a month to the services to make it possible for them to see all this volume, which has been tabled. It's very important, I think, and we need to see it. The second amendment concerns the installation of biomass plants, biogases or bioliquids. It is a crucial process for rural areas, since it can contribute to its development, but when it comes to rural areas. The problem is that many times Greece seeks to place biomass plants or bioliquids in areas that are not linked to the agricultural product, that is, they do not benefit local production, but enter high productivity land. What we are saying is quite simply that biomass plants or bioliquids can enter high productivity land, provided that they satisfy the local product within a 30 km radius, so that there is no change in land use in the agricultural sector with an imported and foreign to high productivity. Make use of energy-efficient technologies only if it meets the needs of local producers and is linked to them. That is the second amendment. The third amendment concerns workers and the Tritsis Park operator. This is quite technical here. This is of course an important issue with regard to the wages and contributions of workers. We are simply saying that this obligation of the institution applies to the publication of the law on the establishment of the institution in an FEK rather than the day the institution took FEI, because there is a gap in employee insurance contributions and insurance. I think we should cover it. This is about the staffing of the National Centre for the Environment and Sustainable Development. This provided that this centre would be staffed only by special scientific staff posts. This has prevented us from being able to move workers again to these positions. So from the fifteen that we had for special scientific staff, we say that the five are left for special scientific staff and the rest are eight IT engineers, five Environment IPs and two Geotechnicals. So we can make use of mobility laws again for IP executives, as the space we can find our special scientific staff is very limited. I'm done with the amendments. If you want anything, I have the possibility of explaining. I think I should go back to recycling. Recycling is an undeniable value and principle in our lives. We are quite behind and we need to strengthen too many activities. Besides, we want to be a recycling society. The domination of the burial is overwhelming. So many resources from the national economy should not be buried. We must not offend the environment, the ground, the territorial resources, the aquifers and the environment affected by the burial of greenhouse gases. There are good examples, but we have a very long delay that was also political. We do not want to refer critical decisions to the future. We think that the time has come for our country to take decisions now and we do not want micro-party benefits from this management. Instead of paying fines for landfills, we can invest in the environment. And this investment will give immediate and raw materials and work with added value and a cyclical economy and environmental quality, and positive results both on tourism and on agriculture and on livestock farming. The new institutional framework that we are going to discuss today and vote on strengthens the financing of recycling, because the contributions are the money of all of us, and they must catch a place, go to recycling. It increases the responsibility of self-government and is linked to many innovations, such as the Electronic Waste Register, the National Producer Register, which are truly innovative for Europe, and we are proud of what is happening. But the increase in recycling resources and the improvement of their performance in a transparent manner strengthen above all, above all, self-government and society, strengthen the citizen. There is the aim of this bill, the upgrading of the role and the citizen, the responsible citizen for the environment, the upgrading of the role and the OTA. We must now get away from the indictment of slogans. I think we've all agreed on what recycling is. It is time, from now on, to do this, the good examples of the past, to make use of them, to make a transparent recycling system, to have more resources. Because that's not just a burden on city fees. It is also work - let us not underestimate it - and competitive work with goodwill for our country's scientists and we must rely on it in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u96	Madam President, I would like the floor on staff, because the Minister referred to my words with a tendency to twist them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u97	We're listening, Mr. Screka. Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u98	I'll be very brief. I've heard the Minister talk about a lot of things. Of course, I do not agree with most of this. But he didn't say anything - and he distorted what I mentioned - about waste in Attica. He told us that a factory in Schisto is already in a licensing phase. This factory has an eighty - thousand - ton capacity of waste, waste a year. Attica produces about a million tons. I asked something specific: in a year and a half, the Gender is closing. Where are the Attica trash going, since nothing's happened? Even this factory until then will not even have been auctioned, because at the moment it has not been licensed, there is no environmental impact study and it has not been spaced. So I don't want the government to keep mocking the Athenian people. He should tell us today, in a year and a half, where you are going, Minister, the garbage of Attica. Where are you going to take them? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u99	Madam President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u100	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u101	Madam President, I was at the Conference of Presidents when Mr Pappas spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u102	But now we can't do that. Your parliamentary representative answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u103	No, I don't want to answer him either personally or politically. This has been said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u104	Then what do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u105	Because we need to vote...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u106	When can we vote? It's been a while.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u107	We have a long time, but when we vote - and there must be time for the government - I want to tell the Minister, who has just come down from the Step, a proposal of our own to discuss it with Mr Pappa. If it is adopted, we will vote. Please, I'll talk for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u108	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Femmelle, contact your colleague. He brought about twenty changes to his law today. Doesn't it make twenty-two? We have two additions, with arguments not spiral, arguments that we have submitted since 2015 and which have emerged critically in practice and controversially. The "possibly" why should it be submitted after the contest or along the way? The ‘subjects’ must be submitted together with the other conditions for participation in the tendering procedure. One of the prisoners. We have said so, Madam President, in the adoption of the law and when that 'contest' took place. Secondly, Mr Famelle, we all have as a presumption that participants should also present a guarantee of good implementation. On the basis of experience, it is not right that the signatories should be a strawman. That's not right. It is also right, in advance, for all the amount of the guarantee to be lodged in terms which prove to be a true businessman rather than a strawman. If you accept these two, we will consent. If you don't accept them, we won't support your choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u110	Mr Loverdos, the provisions on 'whereabouts' are clear. There are no candidates 'from now on'. I told you both in the Conference of Presidents and in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, etc. He can't change the law at the moment to make special provisions. The ‘possible’ controls it by specific bodies, depending on the status of the audited entity. We don't say what we want here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u111	There's an answer to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u112	That's what I'm telling you. Now, for the rest, I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u113	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u114	What do you want now, Mr. Amyras? Don't waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u115	We're barely making time. And I'll explain it to you. I, in my first speech, raised the question that Mr Loverdos mentioned before, about 'outside' and said to Mr Pappa that we will be placed in relation to our vote on this amendment on channel competitions - just like that - on two points. The first is the control of the ‘underground’ before the development of the tendering procedure. Because it cannot be requested, for anyone who has recently been in the hierarchy, to be called "from where you are"...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u116	He collects, sir, from the public and we control the black money. What does this have to do with it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u117	Madam President, do you remember when Mr Papa and his government made the attempt to open the tender, which appeared to some canalarchs who did not have any ‘before’, who had one's ‘boss’ in one's grassland, who had the other's goats and I don't know what? That's all we can do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u118	What you said is not true. Anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u119	So one thing is that. We want to start the process of applying the contest...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u120	What do you think, that the Television Council didn't think of that? Did the Democratic Reconciliation think about it, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u121	This is Parliament. It's not a Broadcasting Council. And if the government had to think...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u122	But these are the suggestions of the PSE.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u123	Madam President, let me answer you. Tell me you, in your previous attempt to legislate on the canal contest, why didn't the PSE take into account? Because he told you he didn't have a legal composition and he did what he wanted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u124	Because, sir, there was no ER. Are we going to start the conversation again? Please. We're not having a dialogue now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u125	The donkey finally came in in front of the cart...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u126	There was no RR, and you rushed to work together to get out, so we can get it over with. Now there is, and we all have to obey the PSE. Don't talk at the same time, it doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u127	The donkey entered in front of the cart and smacked the cart and arrived at the present composition!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u128	It's good to read the laws on "outside you", so you don't come back every time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u129	I read them, but let me make our own political proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u130	You know I know them very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u131	First of all, why are you and not the government?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u132	I answer why I hear. I can't be deaf while you're talking!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u133	How do you answer? What do you say? As a government, do you answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u134	Oh, no. I am speaking as President who is following the debate. You don't just have rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u135	Please confine yourself to the duties that the Chair defines you. I say, therefore, that the first thing we ask is 'from the outset' of the candidarchs and not at the end of the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u136	Ask for it, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u137	Not the canals "outside" yak! And secondly...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u138	Where are they going to submit it, sir? Which authority?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u139	Let me speak, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u140	What can you talk about? If you don't say the elementary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u141	Let the government tell me, let the Minister tell me. Why don't the Minister tell me and you tell me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u142	Which authority will they submit it to? There are laws on 'outside'. Do you understand that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u143	Why are you telling me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u144	Don't make any impressions now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u145	And secondly, there must be this guarantee for good implementation...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u146	Good, you've done it. Mrs Lebanese has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u147	Wait a minute, Madam President. Can you remove my word?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u148	But can I let anyone make suggestions? Let's do them in writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u149	Compare with me as President-in-Office and remove my word?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u150	Did I give you the floor to submit proposals?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u151	But I asked you for the floor and you gave it to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u152	Yeah, but you've been talking so long to say what? Make the proposal in writing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u153	But you'd hear it if you didn't keep talking about my words.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u154	I heard them very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u155	And if you were at the beginning of the meeting, you would see that we had told Mr Papapa, but we did not get a reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u156	And what does that mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u157	That's why I took the floor. In any case, our vote will be positive if the government takes these two important issues into account, and we will go to the'substances' if it does not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u158	Conditional. Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u159	And one last thing. Do you think that I am the one with the amendment? Is that what you've got? It is hardly possible that this amendment actually strips the previous effort of this government with the Pappa law and puts it back in...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u160	Okay. That is not the amendment now. You want to kiss. Come on, Mrs Lebanese, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u161	What did you say? I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u162	You want to kiss, I say, now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u163	Oh, wait a minute, Madam President. On personal grounds, I would like the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u164	To me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u165	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u166	Oh, of course. When you say it turned out that the previous law... what's the point?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u167	Why do you keep talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u168	Because I want to finish the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u169	Why do you keep talking and why do you put judgments and designations in the debate?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u170	You talk all the time. You ask for the floor and speak for no reason, without reading the laws, without knowing the legal framework. I have to say it because I run the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u171	I asked for the floor. You gave him to me. And you have been caught by a diarrhea, and not by your duties, but you speak as a Minister or a government parliament!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u172	I'm not a minister. I run the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u173	You should run it. But please, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. If you want to characterize yourself, get off the Chair and take the floor as a mere Member, as the Rules say, to stand up to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u174	Yeah, we're doing this job!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u175	May I respond, Madam President, to Mr Screka?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u176	Answer me, let's see.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u177	I would just like to say that it is not appropriate for a colleague to speak on his own behalf to put a question of policy which he has answered and not even expects me to answer. I'm talking about Mr. Screka, who said something and left. When these moves are purely impressive, I think it's clear because they were picking up old trash on the streets. Because politics was at the level of amazement. I mentioned ten projects for Attica, which are for recycling, it is for proper management and it is in line with the European strategy. If you want to trade, place on staff and leave, I think that is not even in line with the parliamentary customs that exist in that country over time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u178	The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Lebanese, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, over the last few decades we have all been able to accept that awareness about environmental protection has been multiplied. This has undoubtedly contributed to the efforts made at voluntary level by many environmental organisations, increased information and environmental education. Students who were tempted to recycling through the game in schools, regardless of the frequency of environmental education programmes, are today as adults more responsible environmental citizens. They have affected many more, but they are also asking for information in some cases, thanks to the presence of environmentally responsible in the municipalities, they have achieved much more on the issue of environmental management than the regulatory framework has so far provided for. A new economic world opens up before us and there are ready for the social forces who are preparing to make use of the new data that are being formed. Today we can safely use the data and the experience gained from countries that have taken the lead in the proper environmental management of their waste. The 2001 Act put recycling in our country. On some points it has worked excellently and with very good results. We often talk about the issues that we do not like in our European coexistence and forget the positive. The evolution of recycling, the adoption of methods for recovering, re-use and utilizing resources that we have as a country, and so far we reject without second thought, is one of the most positive aspects of our European path. As a country we do not have the wealth available to other countries in raw materials. This fact automatically ranks us in the case of consumers, as opposed to the producer countries. Recycling at the level it has reached can significantly reverse this reality. If, for example, the volume of raw materials we import for packaging products in the country is reduced, it will be a significant economic development. If we manage to use organic residues in agricultural use, we will have considerable savings in resources. If we reduce our environmental footprint from our daily habits, such as the use of plastic bags for transport and the smallest item, we will have taken an important step towards environmental equilibrium. The current government's initiative is to regulate specific organisational and operational problems that have arisen in practice. The way in which the overall waste management process is organised and run is certainly important, but the active involvement of the whole society and the whole economy is even more important. One could characterise a number of objectives particularly difficult to achieve or to some imagine that our country is unlikely to reach such an organisational level in order to achieve the objectives currently set by the European Union and by the Government for recycling. It is possible, however, if we give the necessary time credit, if we give the municipalities the right tools, if we are determined to control every stage, without any discounts, if we mobilise society as a whole. It is important that we succeed in giving the right mix of incentives and counter-incentives to society as a whole. It is not only a framework for imposing fees and fines, there must also be a system of reducing the costs of everyday life. It is not easy for businesses or consumers to take a responsible environmental attitude if it involves an increase in the cost of life, especially today. It is important, in addition to the modern context, that there be a direct benefit to the citizen who consumes and manages environmentally responsible materials that he does not need. It is not about burdening the citizen with new financial burdens - it is not about transferring the cost of the bag from business to the consumer - nor about increasing the cost of the products. The aim is to create sustainable economic management cycles, which must include those directly and economically beneficial by all the citizens who would contribute to this effort. This can only be done through TAs, by reducing municipal fees and reducing the costs of waste management when not separated from the source. This should be particularly stressed today, as the organisational and operational issues regulated by the bill do not attract all the attention of the public. The savings that can be generated for each family individually may be of particular importance if the sorting systems are rationally developed and the operational costs of OTAs are reduced. In order to do so, it is necessary to redesign how waste is collected throughout the country and at this level the majority of municipalities will need assistance from the founded entities. As far as environmental issues are concerned, we must show our fullest sympathy. When taking action in favour of the environment means saving resources, but also opening up new fields of economic activity, we are not just talking about business. The forecast for the activity of social enterprises in the areas of recycling can create sustainable and well-paid jobs. Today's bill shows that there are many areas in which we have to intervene, regulate them as an organised state. When we are called upon to decide on environmental issues, we must remember that what we are deciding today will have a catalytic impact on the future generations. After all, we must not forget that it is a loan where we live. In conclusion, with regard to the amendment tabled for television licences, I would like to say this: in various ways, including political forces, they have attempted, attempted and attempted the next period not to implement No.4339. But the government, in full association with and with the support of the Greek people, will do all necessary to implement and pay what is needed to stop the "aircraft" established for decades in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, too. I will now give the floor to the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Asmakoulou, then to the Parliamentary Representative of the River, Mr Dannelly, and then to the Minister, Mr Tsironi, to speak for five minutes on an amendment he has signed with Mr Apostleos, Mr Famelos and Mr Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u181	I shall speak on the bill, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u182	Yes, on the bill in general. You're talking as Minister, off-line, so five minutes I think that's enough. Then we'll go back into the list. Mrs Asimakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Madam President. I, Mr President, am going to speak today about the amendment to No.4339/2015, the famous 'Pappa Law' on the licensing of television channels. Before I enter the substance of the debate, it is worth a brief historical retrogression, because, they say, this cologne lasts two years with Mr Pappa's ruling on television permits. In particular, it started on 24-10-2015, more than two years ago. It started with a law that laid down that the Minister would decide on the number of permits, the Minister would set the starting price. So let's go in January 2016. The following is added to Article 279 of Law No.4364/2016, which was added to the Pappa Law. According to this, the number of licences will be determined by law. So it passes a month or so and on 11/10 2016 comes the famous article 2A of the law, with which Mr Papapas has determined that the permits will be four. It's gone now. Now there are seven permits. On 3-11-2016-Law 4431/2016, Article 2A is suspended and the ERR's ‘reasonative opinion’ is converted into ‘concordance’. It is intended to provide the prior ERC assent when the OSH is issued to determine the starting price. Let's move on. The repeal of Article 2A is hereby adopted in June 2017. It is what was legislated, then it was suspended and now it is abolished. Another amendment comes on 4-8-2017, which redefined the licensing procedure in general. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Pappas knows very well, that if you look at the famous 'Pappa Law', we have a total of fifteen articles on licensing, of which only three have not been amended, which are the definitions and some basic things, which are usually not amended in the bills. Article 2 has been accepted by six amendments, Article 5 eight amendments, Article 9 nine amendments, Article 13 ten amendments and Article 2a has been added to the principle, then suspended and subsequently repealed. So the Minister comes today and brings in a new amendment with legislative improvements, which, as he has tabled in the Minutes, are the result of recommendations from the Independent Authority, the National Broadcasting Council. Yes, sir. Obviously the view of the independent authority is respected. We have never called it into question, and perhaps we could also discuss, with a consensual attitude, some of the provisions which are self-evident, which are improveable, which are right. Because it has been heard about the issue of 'from the outset', I note here in parentheses - without wishing to compare with you, Madam President, because you were involved in a debate, I am not dealing with it - that Article 13 of the bill and Amendment No 1226/11, which was adopted on 3-8-2017, already provides that there is a check on 'from the outset' and on the financial information on the operation of the channel, and Article 6 provides that this check on 'from the outset' is to be carried out. In fact, the amendment has added that the technical assistance of the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority is also required in order to assist the PSE in this control. So that's already foreseen. What we are saying - and quite rightly so - is that, based on the experience of the previous competition and we support it as a Qualified Opposition, it should be as preventive as possible. This should be legislated, except for the provision in the notice referred to in the specific amendment in Article 13. We need to know where the money comes from early in the process, in order to avoid phenomena such as foothills, to avoid 'lady' and higher price phenomena, without the real intention of being paid by the participants. That is what we are asking for, and if that is the case, we can also discuss other changes. I do not see any desire, however, to be in that direction. Yes, I see the exact opposite. He says the Minister is asking for a consensus. We, Madam President, have proved ourselves to be a Dedicated Opposition, contrary to the practice of the present majority when it was opposition, that we have the political stature and have the courage, when there are things that we feel are right to vote for. I do much more when they come from the era of the rule of Samaras, as is the Greek, as are airports, such as the minimum guaranteed income, which you have taken, and now you are celebrating. We vote on them when they are in the right direction. What Mr Pappas probably wants is not to criticise at all, even though it is our institutional role. Because even if we are voting in favour of this when we criticise this, Mr. Poppas calls it - what did you say, Minister? - 'I swear and vote', the argument, that is, the criticism we are making of the relics, of the unprecedented custodians, of the bad legacy, of the bad legal practice, such as the one I described here, which has become'swirl' the law. The same happened, Mr Pappa, and the advertising law that had twelve articles and you brought twenty-two legislative improvements. What law? There's nothing left. So, if you are also in the mood of the rheumatism today, what are you doing? You vote and you vote. You're modifying the law and you're not repenting. Lie down and don't regret. Let us at least hear a word in that direction. To conclude, Madam President, because it tells us that we are boiling down and voting, and in this case we are not voting, and in any case we are not voting at that moment, the real problem, Mr Minister, is not whether the other Members or other parties are swearing, voting or not. The real problem is that the people who voted for you are swearing about the reality that he lives for and certainly does not vote for you again. That's your real problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u184	The Parliamentary Representative of the River Mr Spyridon Dannelis has the floor. Mr. Dannelly, I see you've spoken for a minute. Will you speak for twelve minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u185	No, I haven't spoken at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u186	That is how the previous President has noted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u187	I didn't have time. I'm taking the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u188	Okay. Twelve minutes, then, will you talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u189	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u190	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the image of impoverishment in the funds of the SACS stations is incomprehensible for a European state of the 21st century. Mr Spirtzi, when others "run" the fourth industrial revolution, it is not possible for the services you are supervising to be unable to manage the transition to the online ticket. Informatics makes people's lives easier, it doesn't work. So give it a solution now. Stop the images of shame now. That requires a society as a minimum. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an extremely important draft law on recycling, which, unfortunately, has been in many parts of the 1990s, and here, not because of the crisis but because of the proliferation and inefficiency of the parties involved, because of the lack of political will. However, waste management is not a matter of luxury and environmental research. In fact, it reflects the level of culture in a society, because garbage is products of human culture, they do not exist in nature. Only in the last century of technological progress have we created a number of materials and chemicals, such as plastics, which are not rapidly degraded or are never assimilated. The prosperity and insurmountable consumption of modern societies in developed countries has dramatically increased the rate and quantities of garbage we produce. However, the decision on what to do with garbage is crucial, because it has a major impact on public health and the quality of life of people both directly and in the long term. It is also central because waste management is a key feature of each society's lifestyle and organisation. Many ways and technologies for waste management have been tested in Europe. Today, after a long-term political and scientific debate, we recognise that there is no magical solution and we need to redefine the way progress in Western societies is perceived, given that we have linked it to inaccurate and unreasonable overconsumption. Think that in the European Union of twenty-seven Member States, the average citizen flies every year into the trash a hundred and seventy pounds of food perfectly suitable for consumption when others are starving on the planet. Only in Britain is the value of thrown food estimated at about EUR 12 billion a year. It is no coincidence that the prevention of less waste and the reuse of materials are the first priorities. But to a large extent, personal choices of social and environmental sensitivity remain. Recycling, in any case, is a political decision requiring collective action and at the moment only developed societies welcome it positively. It is no coincidence that in our country, the budget of which the debate on the preliminary draft was opened one hour ago, is incorporated into an annual reserve fund for emergency and emergency needs, where, among other things, the payment of environmental fines is considered extraordinary. This is due to Greece's non-compliance with the continued operation of CIDs, uncontrolled waste disposal sites and the incomprehensible lack of waste water treatment systems in urban and coastal areas. If possible in 2017, a country of the hard core of the European Union will continue to pay fines for such supposedly extraordinary and urgent needs rather than having an integrated waste management system! Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now speak on the bill, which is a positive bill and which, as the rapporteur has said, we are voting in favour of. Organisations active in the field of recycling have identified specific problems and shortcomings in the draft law that we are debating. In summary, Mr Minister, as you know, they are concerned about transferring all responsibility for achieving the objectives of recycling to alternative management systems, together with very strict administrative and criminal sanctions in the event of failure to achieve the objectives. At the same time, the responsibility of the rest of the participants, such as the Ministry of Environment and Energy, is ignored, with the specific services of the Hellenic Recycling Agency and especially of the local government. However, as today, after its 15-year implementation, Law 2939/2001 has become anachronistic and needs to be modernised, radically changed. This, among other things, and why it does not adopt the basic principles of Directive 2008/98/EU on waste management and, of course, the recent Directive 2015/720/EU on the reduction of the use of plastic bags. In our case one would say that even the 2008/98/EU Framework Directive, which is also the boulder in waste management, is inappropriately adopted about ten years after its adoption. I would remind you that the spirit of this directive, the famous Pyramid of Waste Management Methods, governs it. This pyramid is based on preventing, slightly above, the repetition, recycling, energy recovery and, finally, the safe disposal of CYPIs. In our country ten years after the pyramid is completely inverted, on the basis of which the disposal of waste in HYTATAs and landfills is still not available, because, unfortunately, we do not have HYH at present. Even with great delay, we realise that, if we do not qualitatively upgrade recycling, by adopting screening at source, it is impossible to approach the objectives that are our European obligation, but also to create conditions for economic sustainability, by using as much clean a product as possible. Let us bear in mind that in its earlier decision China is changing the data. A country that is the major buyer and importer of recycling products, since it absorbs almost half of the world, by drastically reducing its imports, creates new data on the market, which force us, to improve the quality of recycling products in our country, if we want, of course, to have a share in this new market. We therefore come to Article 4a, with which we disagree, because it promotes protectionism, which we feel is not favouring competition and therefore the most qualitative production of recyclable products. I believe that this overprotective and this excessive centralised supervision should not exist. Ladies and gentlemen, if we really want to be realistic, the most essential tool we have for real waste reductions, while at the same time spectacularly improving the rates of re-use and recycling, is no more than the adoption of the model 'I pay as much as I fly'. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words about the abolition of the plastic bag. This is an issue which we have, as a result, talked about in the past, and I have also had the opportunity to deal with during my term of office in the European Parliament and my participation in the Committee on the Environment. It was a great revolution that we have achieved, because, in essence, we had to face very great and organized industrial interests. We need to be bold and aim at the definitive abolition of the plastic bag. Because the plastic bag that has no honor today in the supermarkets has a high and hidden cost. It costs ecosystems and the environment, waste management costs, energy and aesthetic costs, with everything that implies for the quality of our everyday lives. However, it also has economic costs for the consumer, as its price is secretly incorporated into the product. In our country we consume ten billion plastic bags every year a thousand bags per inhabitant per year. Are there any alternatives to reduce this scary number? There are many, such as paper bags, biodegradable bags, the truly biodegradable bags that are not all. But they also create major problems, which, of course, are not the moment to look at. The solution lies only in the multipurpose bag. We have to put it in our lives, as two or three generations had put it before our predecessors. There are certain incentives and counter-incentives in order to be fully adopted. I would like to put forward a brochure of this perception and that logic for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Dannelis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned brochure, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, integrated waste management is not only about our obligations to be consistent with indicators and percentages, which we are obliged to have from European legislation within specific time horizons. I think we all now share the view that it is a matter of quality of the daily lives of every citizen, visitors of the country and, of course, of quality of the environment and of the performance of our national economy. For all these reasons, we should very quickly review what has to do with rational management and integrated alternative waste management, organise the legislative framework that is self-required and give the Greek citizens to understand that proper waste management is about each of us separately. It's a life stand, a personal attitude to each of us. I remember that as Mayor of Hersonissos, the most tourist city in Crete and therefore a producer of large quantities of waste, I tried very much then, in the distant 2003-2004, to convince the Greek Recycling Association that the Municipality of Hersonissos had to join the program. I've encountered huge difficulties. Fortunately these belong to the past and the institutional changes you bring, I am sure they will improve this reality. I also remember from that experience that the true contributor to the adoption of the logic of recycling by local society was the children of the school and especially the primary school, which were the transporters of this obligation to parents, to recycle from now on. So we must bear in mind that the conditions for success of the project and the effort now being made with this draft law are only the constant awareness of the citizens and, of course, the credibility of the system. Because a misconduct in the functioning of the system has gone back for years to try to convince society that the system is credible and does not depend only on the good will of consumers themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr Dannelly, and actually in time. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-eight students and students and three educational sessions from the General School of Horinthia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Tsironis, Deputy Minister for Rural Development, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Madam President. I was present in the House a few days ago, when the dramatic death of lawyer Zafiropoulou was announced. A few hours ago the villain, one of the two offenders, confessed. I am referring to this fact, because at the same time the dramatic event from the headquarters of the Officerial Representation has been very inconceivable - and it seems today how irresponsible it was - to politicise this dramatic event and, indeed, to be regarded as having political characteristics. I say this not by accident for this bill, because this lack of seriousness really scares hours. Here with regard to recycling, I will refer again to a speaker from the Officerial Response, who said attributes the phrase: 'This cologne lasts two years'. Unfortunately, it does not last two years in terms of lawlessness in television licences and much more in terms of lawlessness in recycling. It's been decades since this cologne. There are decades of absolute irresponsibility and systematic resistance to any reform. We can hear a lot today, just like the bill is handy. We hear that word a lot lately. We can't say anything else and say it's rough. So why, since 2008 is the European directive, at least for the four flows, never has this reality, which includes biomass, been incorporated by our predecessors? So I ask here, since we have some figures for the financial crime that is being committed. We have in Greece about five million tonnes of garbage - so they are called'supply' - solid urban waste and we have about two and a half million tonnes of materials beyond organic matter. Of these materials, for example, the paper is worth 80 euros tone, glass and plastic are worth 200 euros, aluminium is worth 600 euros. I, if I make it round to you, will say that in the mid-term the tone is worth 100 euros and more than 300 million euros are lost from the Greek economy, because we throw them away. At least another 100 to 200 million are lost by the organic. We import to Greece compost - go to any florist - from Austria, the Netherlands, which is their organic waste. They're selling us. We buy them every year and we spend between 200 and 500 million more to bury them. So we're talking about an economic crime. I'm going to another field. Because some people mentioned that we're only talking about urbans. It's not just urban. We all know that lead is a valuable material, the metal we get from car batteries - and we all know it's recycled more than 99%. But there's one small detail. In recycling systems less than 50%, i.e. just over 40%, - if I remember - this recycling. The rest is recycled smuggled by aerials. Toxic solid waste goes to the garbage, liquids in the soil, gases in the clean sky, and healthy business operators in the industry threaten and say they are at risk from airfields, because of course they break the market, destroy prices. It's a financial crime again. and healthy businesses are threatened with closure, because no one has taken care of this thing to end. Let's go here to the check. It has been said that we are building a supernatural organism, be careful is fifty two people, a pharaonic organism for an elementary control. Entrepreneurship asks for that. Crime, ladies and gentlemen, is lasting. There's something else that they don't have any entrepreneur in it. I am not a legal person, but I will tell you a reality. The Egyptian Prime Minister's CIA this beautiful institution, which was burned two years ago, burned and was a man of lawlessness, while these few environmental inspectors we have, had denounced it. Repeatedly, the fines, which with several such procedural terminology claims had never been finalised for years and not only had this criminal not been closed down but also received two extensions from the former regime at the same time. Because always when there's an environmental crime, that goes to the bells. So I ask the House. If we take economic crime accordingly, would there ever be a fight against tax evasion? If the ILO finds a businessman who goes out and does not shut him down on the ground, if he does not impose the fine on him on the ground, but this fine goes five and ten years later, he will never be struck. So that's what you've done for years in environmental crime. You've never pressed it, you've always hollowed it, you've always left it uncontrollable, and that's why we're in the current situation. So, and I close with it, the ecological krone we have heard today from some and some, do not remove the huge problem, that in practice there is no recycling, and that has a huge economic and environmental footprint. So I call on you at the very last moment, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition, those of you who at least said to vote on this bill, because if you do not vote on it, the country will make another very big reform with you outside. You lose out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr. Tsironi. Now we're going back to the list. Mr. Excellency has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to discuss and vote today, the draft law on recycling, the EEAN and so on. This bill, obviously, has a regulatory effect on the distortions and omissions of the past, but its real value is not limited to legislation and directives. This bill is a serious step forward in the realisation of what our Government proposes for the sustainable development of the country, through which the protection of the environment, health and well-being of citizens are guaranteed. Today's bill makes a serious effort to change the failed productive model that you have implemented over the past years. Your failure is undeniable, gentlemen, of the New Democracy and of the PASOK, and this shows the result. It is not a matter of political controversy, but a reality that comes to classify Greece as a horror when it comes to recycling and, in general, the management and exploitation of natural resources. I will not repeat these elements that have been mentioned by several here, but they are characteristic of how far behind we have left behind in relation to the European Union. All this at the same time that Europe is aiming until 2030, to put the HYTAS behind, to pass more than 70% of waste recycling. When only 1% of household waste at the same time ends in Germany, at the same time it recycles 100% of its batteries and lubricating cars. At the same time, France powered a million homes from the burning of garbage. When Japan recycles 98% of its metals, it will build the five thousand Olympic medals for the Tokyo Olympic Games in 2020 from these recycled metals. Let us not continue the good practices of other countries, because the comparison is disappointing. That is what you have achieved: to be ashamed and apologise. But are the other Europeans more sensitive to the environment? Did citizens do seminars on their ecological footprint? Not only did their governments and their institutions understand in good time how waste management means using and making use of natural resources, it means improving the economy, it means growth and, indeed, sustainable and sustainable. It is estimated that in the European Union with a view to 2020 three hundred and two thousand jobs will be created and more than two hundred thousand indirectly will be in the recycling sector. What did you guys do before about all this? Nothing. You have been slapping, you have made nothing effective, you have not given any incentive to Ottas nor to the citizens. You have not complied with the European proposals and have not even taken care of them so that, at least, there is a data recording mechanism for the production of solid waste and recycling. But let's see what we're doing today. First of all, this bill is a product of multi-month processing and intensive consultation with all stakeholders, self-government, the scientific community and ecological and social organisations. The majority of the bodies agreed with the proposed arrangements, which are incorporated into Union law and, at the same time, with the basic principles of the new ECHR as formulated with the exception of the incomprehensibility of the WTO-TA. In view of this draft law first, we are formulating and updating Law No 2939/2001, as it is inconsistent with the requirements and objectives of the ECHR but also insufficient with respect to Directive 1998/2008/EU. We regulate the basic institutional framework for organising screening at source and recycling. In this way it clarifies the decisive role of the TECs and establishes incentives and counter-incentives for both TECs and publicers, for example, the interconnection of the price policy of the Municipalities. We strengthen the role and responsibility of the Hellenic Recycling Agency, which has until now remained understood, unable to respond actively to its role. To think that to date we have no official data on recycling and production of solid waste, while on education and awareness-raising activities and no reason. In addition, the addition of an Inspection and Control Directorate shall strengthen the role as a collector in order to be able to contribute decisively to the monitoring and control of the functioning of the TENs. We adapt Directive 2015/720/EU, which provides for measures to reduce the use of the plastic bag. Note that I am the one who drafted and recommended the report on plastic bags in the Committee on the Environment, and we believe that we have contributed to the deposit and adaptation of Directive 2015/720/EU for our country. I would also like to stress the importance of Articles 12 and 14 in terms of tax evasion. I note that any producer who is not an individual management system operator or has not been part of a system of collectively alternative management and is not registered in the National Waste Producer Register, will not be able to move its products. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill we are aiming to move towards an environmentally friendly economy using its resources efficiently, giving the opportunity to develop, from what we were calling waste until yesterday. To pass this outdated linear model of supply - production - consumption - rejection of the modern, circular model of economy with emphasis on reducing, reuse, repairing, recycling, recovery. Our aim is not a pseudo-investment policy which will serve a few and selected ones. Our aim is to reconstruct the country on healthy foundations and competitive conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, please call on the Members of all the parties to vote in favour of the bill, particularly those of the government parties responsible, for the fact that all these years have done little to recycle. It was a revealing criticism from the rapporteurs of the New Democracy and the DISSH, because we, two and a half years, did what they did not do all the previous years. I invite you to stand up to the occasion, putting a limit on the quill and on the panic you want to sow. Our country is not a Wild West, nor are people dying of cholera. The country is making a qualitative leap after years of prolonged recession. No matter how diagrams you turn around, one is reality. The fleeing forward is a fact and has begun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u196	Ms. Big Economics, Independent MEP, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in this bill, the required amendment to Law 2939/2001 on alternative packaging and other products is achieved with a view to adapting to the European Directive 215/720. Our country's harmonisation with the European directives in question is imperative, as only through effective implementation of these can it be avoided from imposing fines on the European Union, which is still a major issue with a serious impact on state calculation. So once again we say that we are back on very large issues of recycling and ecological awareness and we are coming to legislate under the pressure of the European Union. Now I ask you. How will the government resolve this problem once again? Of course in the known way. And with what else? With new recruitments that are not apparent by the spirit of the bill, even though they are really necessary, to provide solutions to the shortcomings of the Greek recycling agency. I didn't hear any of my colleagues mention it. Thus, in the government's welcoming habit of increasing the human potential of the recycling agency by creating twenty-three new positions in total. Twenty-one administrative staff seats, a legal counsel and a lawyer's post. If these posts have been decided on with new recruitments, there will be an extra burden, Minister, from the state budget, of EUR 450 million per year, as defined by the General Accounting Office of the State. A problematic article is also the 24th on the establishment of fifty three organisational posts of regular staff of the Agency, where they are referred to in order to cover these posts, by means of a notice, either in accordance with the procedure of the AACC as you say, or in the process of mobility. This is where another additional issue arises. It provides for the bill to precede the mobility process and if the positions are not covered in this way, then only then will we go to recruitment via ASP if they are not covered. Do you agree? Otherwise, we can conclude that you are aiming only at the "Days". Because if they are covered with mobility, why should you be proclaiming positions with an ASP? There will be no substance and content. 'Cause if you also have new posts, you're going to have to pay more attention to the budget. You've already charged him with 450 million. Another question that arises. There is no corresponding provision for the remuneration of the President of the D.C. and the CEO. Remunerations that remain unresolved. You say the adoption of the joint ministerial decision. In this way we have no idea what the burden of the state budget will be. I was not interested in what other colleagues have said, where the HYTAs will go, where we will bury them, etc. I'm interested in the state budget. That's the point, Minister. Citizens are suffering. If it's the plastic bag, where we're gonna bury it, what we're gonna do with it, it's something that doesn't interest the citizen at all. In this way there is no idea of spending in the state budget. So this bill has no provision for a maximum wage for these posts. In fact, there is the curious wording in the article that the level for the President and the CEO cannot be predicted. Will it be the same? Will it be reduced or increased in relation to the existing one? The Minister will be left to make a decision. I ask you, Minister. On what criteria will these two positions be paid? Also, the bill is completely unclear in relation to the required experience and knowledge that these two members will have on the board of directors. First question I want to ask you, Minister. How will experience of the subject matter that the chairman and the CEO will have? On the basis of what objective criteria will you consider to be experienced in this position by the President and the CEO or inexperienced to reject them? What will be your objective criteria? Is he gonna be a chemist? On what criteria will you judge whether he is experienced or inexperienced? It is quite general and abstract the wording in the bill. So you leave very wide-ranging interpretations of the terms and if we approach the issues, I think they are wicked and shadowy. There is an vague wording that has perhaps been put on purpose to serve certain political purposes. Clearly I say to you that it is necessary to formulate this provision more fully. I therefore call on you to set objective criteria for proving the experience and the knowledge required to cover these two positions. These two positions are important and their payroll for the state budget will be very burdensome. Finally, I would like to refer to the last amendment by the Minister for Digital Policy, Mr Papapas, and to television licences. First of all, I would like to remind the Minister that, for any delay in the availability of television licences, it is the government responsible, which has brought changes to the procedure deemed illegal. In relation to today's amendment, therefore, I would like to stress that it is absolutely reasonable to add that which is being done and which requires that we fully know the natural persons behind the ownership of a television channel. To date we have all identified the channels with huge-dimensional complications and suspicious transactions between businessmen and political worlds. This must finally be done, so that we can say that we belong to a civilised country, where all elected MPs and the government are not dependent and are not under pressure from big-scale channel owners. I shall conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by saying: 'Let us be strict and uncompromising in all the bad texts that have brought us to be faced today with a Member State which has a citizen against him, because all it serves is the economic and the same interests of the great-help state. The Greek people will no longer show any tolerance to corruption, which has been overrun by all the previous governments and have destroyed us. That is what I wanted to finish my speech and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, twenty-six students and schoolchildren and three educational attendants from the 3rd High School Sparta. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Kefaloyannis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with a comment, which I have heard from the Minister, on a criticism made by our rapporteur and other colleagues. It is bad that the government takes the view that we are exercising our institutional role as a Qualified Opposition, criticizing as a trade unionism. I would therefore like to say to the Minister that as parliamentarians we are representatives of the nation and not trade unionists. I want to hope, at least, for him and for him, that he does not reserve the role of the trade union, but as a parliamentary party, which should act on the basis of parliamentary rules. I think, Minister, we will agree - and I think no one will disagree - that recycling is, indeed, the key to a modern waste management model. I think there is no doubt that in this respect the existing legislative framework is indeed needed to be updated. After all, this is something that we, as a member of the time group, have argued on and we have supported. I think that in the field of ecology, but more generally in the area of people who are indeed dealing with environmental issues, the New Democracy's views find very fertile ground. In fact, at the end of 2014, the then government of the New Democracy had proposed to the House a corresponding bill in order to give further impetus to recycling so that, on the one hand, the European objectives can be achieved and, on the other hand, the volume of waste, which leads to landfilling, can be reduced. Of course I don't need to remind you, what the stand of SYRIZA was at the time. As usual, unfortunately, the colleagues at the time were lofty against this bill. Obviously, they are forgetting today that this bill, which we are discussing today, at least in the part concerning recycling and not so much in the reorganisation of the EEAN, is based in many respects on that very bill, at least to the extent that it included the revision of the European recycling directive. Evidently, in their position colleagues from SYRIZA ignore that, unfortunately, three years have passed on to the question of waste management without, in fact, any reason for the SYRIZA and Independent Greek Government to reconcile its ideas with reality. That is, from the end of 2014, which was a draft bill, many with the provisions relating to today's directive, Minister, were lost three years. That is why we call on you and make you political - not personal - criticism. Exactly, though, because this is a compromise of ideas with the real problem, there is also a very significant difference compared to the 2014 bill. Today's draft law fails and may be a little bolder, in terms of its interventions, on many critical issues, and finally doubting the effectiveness of the provisions that we are discussing today. First of all, to put the scope of the government's legislative initiative into its real dimension, we must say that the natural object of today's bill is too limited, because according to official figures it may refer to just 750 000 tonnes of municipal waste as a total of 5.7 million tonnes of urban waste in this bill. The bill, i.e. it is essentially about 20% of the country's waste, as the organic or fermentable fraction is not about packaging materials. Also, this is not the object of the Hellenic Recycling Customization Company or the alternative management systems. Unfortunately, the figures, ladies and gentlemen of the House, have chosen to avoid them both in the committee and in the House, but in particular in the accompanying texts of the bill. At the same time, however, you come here and use as a justification for the need for your intervention the low recycling rate of all urban waste, but without saying that in fact, low recycling - that is, the percentage - is essentially due to the lack of the organic fraction, for which, of course, it is neither the systems nor the producers of packaging but the state, that is, the government, in fact. I am referring to the years of your own governance. It is indeed impressive but also regrettable that, after three whole years of government, after so many social conflicts, you have dubbed all over Greece on waste and waste management issues - you have not even found a single regulation - not even a single reference - for energy recovery or even a composting of the organic fraction, i.e. in essence 80% of the country's urban waste. In Europe of 2017, Minister, there are so far around five hundred mechanical and biological waste treatment plants, and that should also be added to another three hundred ninety nuclear waste treatment plants. So, Minister, are we or are we not Europe's railroads in the waste management plant infrastructure? It is indeed a time-consuming problem, but here I tell you to tell me what you have done on this issue over the last three years. Don't go to what happened back. That's what I think has been judged. The rapporteur also said that we are Europe's Euro peans, on the issues to which I have already referred. Does your government or does it not have the responsibility through which it demonised the companies that are interested in investing in this area? Did your Government fly or not into the basket of wastefuls, significant amounts spent in previous years for studies to build waste treatment plants? Did the current government or not overthrow the previous planning, especially in Attica, of about 50% of the waste? You received in Attica an RCF, which had spaced, licensed and financed four ready-to-bill units and unfortunately cancelled it. You approved a revised MAGP, which restores five units, one of which must be rebuilt and expanded and the other four must be spaced, licensed, funded and re-evaluated. So we've got new delays until the government of SYRIZA and of Independent Greeks lands in reality. Minister, how long will this process last? I think at best about two years. If these are added to the three years of delays, we are talking about about five years of delays. That is why Mr Screkas, too, has called on you for the delays that the current government has. Unfortunately, what did you manage? To put pressure on the operation of the HYTA in the Race for at least two more years and, unfortunately, drive mathematically to further expand its capacity. It is good to have a debate on what is going to happen in the coming years because, unfortunately, we will be in this Chamber again, those who are going to be in that period and, unfortunately, we will be discussing problems that we will find in front of us. If you add the ecological disaster from the oil spill to the marine ecosystem in Saronic and, unfortunately, the devastating way in which your Government managed it, unfortunately, we all have a very good picture formed, what is the ecological footprint of the Left in Attica. But I would like to explain more why the bill we are debating today is neither daring, nor effective. The 2014 bill provided for a abolition of the authorisation to collect and transfer packaging materials and a replacement from a simple record to an electronic register. Unfortunately you didn't adopt it. There was also provision for doubling the target of separate bio-waste collection from 10% to 20% for 2020. I would really like to ask you. Your target, Minister, who is it? I think that the plenary is waiting for an answer from you. However, the most problematic provision and indicative of the inefficiency of the present Government is Article 4c(3). You plan to set up a supervisory body of the ETS, consisting of those with no specific knowledge to check the permanent functioning of the ETS. I ask: would it not be simpler and more effective to introduce an express obligation to carry out annual audits of the SADs by sworn accountants, as is the case, for example, in private legal persons? Is the issue of tax evasion a question of tightening fines or a lack of political will to impose them? It is estimated that the tax evasion on this issue may also touch 45%. How many complaints to EEAN concerning tax evasion have they been examined and handled? Minister, I ask you in particular. Are there any complaints pending over the last four and five years and, unfortunately, the competent authorities have not made any substantial move? I would like an answer to that. Don't tell me again what previous people have done. What have you been doing for the last three years in this matter? There have been complaints since 2011. These issues could and perhaps should be dealt with by the existing legal framework if there were the political will and determination of the competent authorities to effectively exercise their role. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] On the issue of EEAN, half of the bill relates to the Greek Recycling Organization. You're actually doubling him in size. Do you want us to believe that the effective functioning of the Hellenic Recycling Agency is due to its small size and structure and does not relate to the quality of the staffing and, above all, to its ineffective administration? What has so far prevented the EEW from considering in time the revision of the files of Alternative Management Systems? I give a specific example: There is a request for a reduction in a specific ETS in application of an earlier price reduction decision issued since April 2015. Can you, Minister, give us an explanation, because while the request has been submitted since November 2015, two years ago, it has not yet been examined? So we all understand why you're giggling EEAN. But, instead of nominating seven of the eleven members of the Board of Directors, do you not give better supervision of the alternative management directly to the services of the Ministry? I think that the government will save valuable time in terms of dealing with requests, which - let me tell you - are of a rhetoric nature. Unfortunately, the new EEAN, as things show, will manage a very large sum, the revenue from the fee for reducing the use of the plastic bag. You're in a position, Minister, to tell us about what height you're computing this end? Some people are talking about a budget of around EUR 50 million, at least on the basis of the consumption currently being made. If that is the case, this amount goes far beyond the revenues of all the TENs together, i.e. the annual turnover of the TETRA PAK. And I ask you, Minister: where will this budget be allocated, who will manage it and how? Do you not think you should tell us anything more in this Chamber today, rather than refer the matter to the future with an authorizing provision? Unfortunately, I have the impression - and I wish you would disprove me with your data or with your public commitments - that it is not your intention to charge the small and medium-sized Greek enterprises, which are being called upon to cope with very strong international competition and in an environment with capital controls and a lack of liquidity. And all this, in order to serve a governmentally controlled body, which will unfortunately become a source of funding purely for racist political choices. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude very briefly, Mr President, with the amendments, and I shall start with a comment on the new eruption of the 2015 Pappa Law, namely the amendment on the licensing of digital television stations, which once again alters the text of the 2015 Act, which remains on behalf of the name. I think we should be talking about the Pappa law now. Perhaps we should be talking about 'the PSE law' or 'the law of the Council of State'. However, if you look at all the provisions that have been revised or amended by the Government at the request of either the Council of State or the PSE, you will understand that it certainly has nothing to do with the law passed two years ago. This is a law that - not to be forgotten - led to a competition - outrageous in 2016, a law that was considered unconstitutional by the Council of State and forced you, as I said before, to amend a number of provisions. However, with the amendment that comes today, unfortunately you are once again causing the Greeks. The Minister didn't talk about the tampering. Actually, he doesn't say anything. You will have to answer some questions very soon: will you be with legality or will you be with the pastures and famous guys like Mr. Kalogritsa? Will you be with transparency or with these businessmen, who publicly say that they were "loving" in the competitive process? Will you be in keeping with the constitution, or will you be in the manner of the SYRIZA Government? Will you be in compliance with the decision of the Council of State or will you still have left-wing settlements? Either you present institutional guarantees of transparency, guarantees of the legality of the origin of the money, effective control over the place where the participants are involved in the tender, or the New Democracy will not agree on the way in which the tender is to be conducted. "SYRIZA bank", grassland and rabbits, real or disguised, we are not going to tolerate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mrs. Hara Kafantaris, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening. Clearly the management of waste is a public matter. For this reason, over a decade now, a responsible public dialogue, political, scientific, parallel to actions of civil movements and bodies on this big issue has been launched. Waste is potentially an important resource for material and energy and its rational management can ensure jobs and significant resources. The European strategy for the management of solid waste goes to the hierarchy of management, in accordance with European Directive 98/2008, which we all know sets priority for prevention, reduction, re-use, recycling, recovery, safe disposal. I shall now refer to what the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy said earlier, who basically invoked us as a government on the issues of legislation, saying that there were ready plans two years ago, etc. And nothing happened. I would say that the policies followed by the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK were essentially short-sighted, harmful, without future planning and based on uncontrolled - we are already paying them now - the operation of landfills. In response to the economic crisis and the deadlock in management and the imposition of fines, the previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK urgently proceeded with the private investment project at national level, a project concerning the construction, operation, exploitation of mixed processing plants - I stress it, ladies and gentlemen, the 'combined' waste. The main purpose of energy utilization, while opening up the road to burning, turning local government into a tool for implementing this policy, a local government - collective mechanism for the service of business interests, which were preparing to plunder public wealth, popular incomes and with waste management to launch municipal charges at heights. The implementation of these plans by the previous government in the large aggregated waste treatment plants was subject to this logic of recycling activity at local level and the costs were not only environmental, it was social, economic, as soon as the development of small and medium-scale, environmentally friendly, low-tech activities, which could contribute to the creation of jobs and the exploitation of domestic potential, was hampered. So I come now to Attica, which was heard very much today by the Opposition and especially the Civic. I will start with this: Regional planning in Attica, as I mentioned before, provided for large mixed waste treatment facilities. The regional planning of Attica you delivered, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and of PASOK, pre-recycling was 8%. Don't forget that because we were talking about mixed waste treatment. Secondly, who doesn't remember the garbage in the Gender, when you come and say what happens in the Ghost from all over Greece, from the Peloponnese, a certain period of time because it was deadlocked? You are speaking and judging this government that, in addition to the national plan adopted in 2015, we have the regional plans, which were voted in 2016, with the logic of aid essentially of recycling and this process. As far as Attica is concerned, 150m euros are being provided for major projects from the EMCDDA. Already sixty four local projects are ready in Attica and are operational, as are ready studies for other integrated local projects. Finally, we're talking about focusing on recycling at the source. That is what this draft law is doing, which amends the alternative management framework in our country. We are in line with the European Directive on plastic bags - steps have already been taken since August - and its reduction. The LAGs are given the opportunity to set up and organise alternative municipal waste management. Incentives are given to municipalities for waste management. It is possible to recruit staff in the local system and to have recyclable materials. The very important thing, however, ladies and gentlemen, is that this bill is an important step towards the circular economy. What's the circular economy? It is the prolongation of the life cycle of products at the same time as saving non-renewable natural resources, with more reuse, recycling and recovery of energy and materials. It is the shift from the linear supply model - production - consumption - rejection, make - consume - dispose, to a new model that focuses on reducing - reuse - repair - recycling. In other words, we are talking about another development model. The development of the economy by the model - I am making - is, I have, which is increasingly limited by resources, to a cyclical and regenerative model, creates a huge opportunity for business innovation. Indeed, with a recent study, it is estimated that with the circular economy the European Union can save from $340 to $630 billion a year in material expenditure, about 3% of Europe's GDP. 2017 is the year of a circular economy for the European Union. The European Union is preparing relevant dictators in relation to the cyclical economy, presenting a specific package and actions to help close the life cycle of products through more recycling - reuse, which will bring benefits to the environment, the economy, the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a moment, Mr President, please. The circular economy package is EUR 1.6 billion. According to the European Union's forecasts, the circular economy can create two million new jobs in Europe. We take an example from many countries that apply the circular model. Of course, companies taking part in the process may initially have significant costs, but at this stage of the transition. But the circular economy is an opportunity for innovation and entrepreneurship. Especially at a time when the cost of raw materials is increasing, it is cheaper to create infrastructures for the processing of older products, such as the British automotive industry, which uses 50% recyclable aluminium, for example. In addition to what I have said, I would like to say that there is also the introduction of public procurement standards which take account of the ecological footprint. I shall not repeat myself on the plastic bag, on the electronic register, on the olive mills and on all that has happened. In closing, I consider my obligation to say a word in information. Perhaps many people are aware of this, but it is not well informed - I think - of the many benefits of using biogas, which are related to this amendment which is coming. Because of climate change we have focused primarily on NOx, carbon dioxide. But methane, ladies and gentlemen, is the most dangerous greenhouse gas. With biogas production facilities, the use of agricultural residues of all species and organically produced methane-rich biogas, it has uses similar to natural gas, can be used for the production of thermal and electrical energy. It is also a renewable source of energy, an RES - which is also within our objectives - which is stored unlike other RES and the important thing is that it can be consumed where it is produced, which has macroeconomic benefits. I am now talking about the agricultural sector that is being introduced and this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u202	Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u203	I shall conclude, Mr President. Its use brings environmental benefits to soil, water, air, because of a reduction in methane emissions, but also to woody vegetation, a reduction in logging, which today, during the crisis, may well develop. To say that in Scandinavia, many major cities operate buses using biogas. In Denmark, there is a central system of digestion using agricultural residues and I would say that with 2012 data - unfortunately, the old data - there were two thousand biogas plants throughout Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor to table some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. I took the floor to testify to the legal improvements. Before I give them to you, I would like to say a few words. The two of these are Mr Arvanitides' suggestions, which have been made earlier. The first is that we are amending the Committee on Consultation and introducing a representative of OTA workers and a representative of recycling and waste management workers and outside the municipality. The second is that the reason why only business plans can return after the deadline is that the EEAN is in conflict with the objectives of the law. That is to say, if a conflict arises with the recycling targets of the country, that is why it must come back. We will not interrupt a plan after the four months that we have available to us to approve. I also inform the House that another legislative improvement is that administrative infringements detected by Law 2939/2001 and that their examination was not completed, with the new law being examined by the EEAN. We are therefore closing a transitional gap as to who looks at these provisions. I'm presenting for the Minutes the legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u206	As far as the two amendments tabled by Members are concerned, they are the responsibility of other ministers and cannot be accepted by me. They've been submitted to the ministers for possible next bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Vagonakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u208	Unfortunately, our country is a typical example of a model of uncontrolled consumption that does not care about natural resources and sustainability. Based on the figures we have, we are twenty-second worst performance in recycling materials in all twenty-eight European countries. I would remind you that despite the fact that European directives set as a European target the recycling of 50% of the recycling materials produced by 2020, we are one of the seven countries that we have called for the extension of the target in 2025. We are talking about an objective that if we do not upgrade the institutional framework, but above all if we do not all try to implement it together, it will be difficult and then we will catch it. Finally, let us not forget that, apart from the obvious consequences for our environment, every year, we pay for fines in the European Union about EUR 50 million for illegal practices in relation to environmental management, at the same time as we are a tourist country with separate natural wealth that must be shown clean and regular. We must therefore speed up the procedures for saving and managing proper natural resources, gradually assimilating the logic of sustainability and building at the same time the cyclical economy, because we must not forget that this is not only morally useful in a debate on the environment, but recycling produces economy, jobs, GDP, goodwill and wealth for many of the sectors involved in it. Therefore, in view of the above, we have drawn up an important bill, which has become even more interesting through the discussion with the institutions, from which a whole range of legislative improvements have been tabled. This bill aims to gradually achieve the new national and European targets for reducing waste resulting in landfill. It aims at the qualitative upgrade of recycling, because our goal is not only more recycling, but also better recycling. This should also be done by the first-degree local authorities, which are motivated but also counterincentives, through the Invoice Regulation for the processing of the joints, but also by the introduction of a clearer framework of contracts between local authorities with the TENs, i.e. the Alternative Management Systems and provision for the first-time financial compensation. The bill is also aimed at creating incentives for citizens to participate in recycling and to have a return. It aims at encouraging initiatives, recycling by the social and solidarity economy, combating producers' tax evasion in relation to the end of recycling. It aims at prohibiting the movement of products from producers that have not complied with the obligation to participate in a TEN and have not been registered in the National Register of Producers, the so-called ‘ESDP’. It provides for intensification of controls. It provides for stricter fines for TLTs, producers or managers of recyclable materials and alternative management systems. Finally, it aims at providing for a national public information system, providing for specific measures to reduce the use of plastic bags and strengthen the Greek Recycling Agency, EEAN, in a human and organisational structure, so that it can fully fulfil the very important role it is required to play. Of course, as I said before, a legislature does not solve all the problems. On the other hand, this remains to be resolved in practice in the period that will follow, and only through the intensification of the effort, in order to implement all the measures envisaged in practice. That is why it is necessary for the state to have a strong regulatory role, ensuring the proper functioning of the system, transparency and the adoption of best European practices. With these institutional measures and with the strengthening of environmental education we can achieve the objectives of national planning. It is a bet and it is also called for producers to be persuaded that recycling and processing of their garbage can lead to added value for their business. Finally, we also need to change the way in which recycling itself is approached, with transparency, active investment and transfer of resources to the citizen and to the municipalities. All this has been implemented successfully in the majority of European countries. We don't find the wheel. On the contrary, solutions are already well known and are applied around us, as long as we stayed behind following a distorting, counterproductive and environmentally destructive model. With this draft law today, the legislative framework is being modernised and practices in recycling will be improved, copying the appropriate solutions. The speed and degree of success, however, depends on us alone. It is another collective national bet that we are not allowed to lose. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] However, as in many other relevant issues in recent years, we have shown that we can manage and I believe that we will succeed. I shall conclude with two amendments. I would like to support the amendment tabled by the JRC concerning the reintroduction of the exemption in the provincial newspapers. In addition, we have tabled a relevant report with Mr Balommenakis. Finally, I wanted to say on the amendment by the Ministry of Digital Policy that it is in fact a regulation that shields and ensures the competition, which is essential for the PSE to finally proceed to the tender for television licences. In other words, the legislative improvements proposed by the PSE are actually adopted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Athanasios Theocharopoulos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u210	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill on the recycling of packaging and other products, in a broader environment of permanent recycling of poverty, unfulfilled promises and communications articles. But we will then talk about these in many other bills. To go through today's bill and recycling. It's a well-known matter. It's timeless. It has afflicted the country economically, politically and socially. Furthermore, the benefits of recycling or wider, alternative waste management are well known and fully documented. Recycling contributes to sustainable development on its economic, environmental and social side. It is the most comprehensive approach for waste management, because it achieves economic benefits, contributes to addressing environmental issues and ensures social equality and jobs. That is why, Minister, in principle, the Democratic Reconciliation will vote for this bill, despite the fact that we have some - and I will tell them in my speech - alternative ways of dealing with a number of issues or, in any case, the need for a broader planning, which the state will finally have to agree on in the long term. The programme opposition we are making means that we are making concrete proposals to you. It is good that you have just accepted two specific changes. Of course, in other cases you have not done so. I will then tell you about an amendment where you have not done so in the previous period, and you will have to answer why you have not done so, the forest maps I mean, to understand it, I am referring to the relocation of the date.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u211	You probably don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u212	I'll tell you later, don't get ahead of yourself. In order to function, therefore, the proposed system should exclude any perpetuation of the problem from now on. And the question is, if we do so, we need rational infrastructure, coordination and cooperation between stakeholders, as well as other pathogens of public administration. Is that obvious? Do we have to put in specific timetables? Why don't we put on many occasions? The problem of waste management is one of the three most important problems worldwide, together with the lack of water and climate change. As we say about climate change and environmental problems, Minister, the Prime Minister recently visited the United States did not mention anything to Mr Trump on all these issues in our country, even for our country's positions. Why am I saying it? Because you will agree that the policy of the new United States government on these issues is on the issues that have been raised worldwide in climate change, the environment and environmental protection. It is therefore inappropriate for the Greek Government not to raise these issues anywhere. So these problems tend to be united in a single approach, so it also requires a single policy. The authorities of the European Union for waste management concern production prevention, maximum recycling of solid waste and the energy use of surpluses. Are these principles being implemented by this bill? In order to solve the problem, a change in the consumer and production model is needed, namely, a change in consumer behaviour and industry, respectively, as well as related incentives. Is such a change of attitude that we can legally help her? The problem of waste management is more social than a technical issue. Technically there are ways. But it is also a matter of economy, society, social structures and consumption, and it also requires a prepared and trained audience. The recycling sector has a great potential for investment. The question is whether these investments are being facilitated in some way and with the existing bill. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the positive provisions, this bill again comes to a very late vote, as the consultation ended on November 21, 2016, and the national management plan, whose objectives are reflected in the bill, is 2015 and mainly concerning the recycling of packaging, does not provide environmental, technical, economic criteria, so that the first grades are to choose the appropriate and acceptable collection model. The problem in general is that we are not convinced of the long-term and effective efficiency of these incentives. That is the main issue. For its implementation, there are seven CSRs, two ministerial decisions, a presidential decree, a decision of the Board of Directors of the National Recycling Agency, which we do not know when and whether they will be able to issue. And back from the beginning, the same problem is constantly reproducible. We also have a point on this subject in the report by the Scientific Office of the Parliament, Minister, which says that reflection could be given on Article 6(2), an element of the draft law provided to another other than the President of the Republic, an authorisation to regulate generally such issues as the possibility of imposing additional restrictions, marketing or the prohibition of marketing without further clarification. Do you agree with this and, if so, why is it necessary to do so in this bill? You are attempting to integrate a European directive without, however, identifying the articles incorporated. We know that European legislation on the subject is at a revision stage, so until this directive is implemented, another one will have been voted on at European level. Nearly half of the bill relates to the National Recycling Agency, whose role is over-intensive in terms of the creation of a superfood agency, while at the same time its staff depend on intra-mobility and the necessary resources are not guaranteed if it cannot function. Nevertheless, we have welcomed you, I welcome you again to the world of mobility, the necessity of mobility, which you had fought as a Qualified Opposition, and now you accept it as a means of improving the distribution of potential. It does not provide specific indicators for evaluation of alternative management systems. The Agency's board of directors determines fines - I am referring to Article 18 - but we are not given a mathematical formula, a algorithm specific to it. Impressively, it causes the fact that, before the fine is imposed, the body must call on an apology anywhere in the law against the decision to impose a fine, as is usually the case in the public sector. In other words, we are dealing with a bill which recycles earlier provisions, but which does not improve them in the long term. It presents gaps in the objective of decentralisation and ends up being of an empirical nature, as the emphasis is on fines, which are defined in a rather arbitrary way, does not provide guarantees for its financing, so that it is at risk of not being implemented, as there are no specific timescales. In addition, it does not refer to an integrated and single policy. Because the aim must be to change the consumer and productive model, of course, we do not see how it will ensure, apart from dealing with environmental problems, social equality and jobs. In other words, we vote intentions. And, of course, we say that we need such a logic at first, but they are intentions. That is the criticism we make of you. Minister, I honestly cannot see whether you have any other viewpoint in practice in relation to this issue. In practice, I'm saying, because he needs another perspective. That's what I'm talking about. We have said so, and we have pointed it out. But have you made an incision to this matter, how do we manage recycling? We did not understand the incision and your speech. The problem is that, as in renewable energy sources, there is no provision for the protection of the environment in general. The economic crisis cannot continue to be an excuse for the fact that the dialogue on the major environmental issues, and in particular the shortcomings and duplications of our institutional framework, has been extremely unsatisfactory. Moreover, the economic crisis is not an excuse for either the way you legislate or the way you manage the various agencies or the areas you do not. You are restricted to fines and penalties. Okay, but these should only work in addition. That is what we should agree on. Only in addition. You're putting all your weight on the fines.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u213	Tell us an incision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u214	You're talking about a circular economy, about jobs. We with you in the circular economy for jobs, but we don't see exactly how that will happen. You refer, as I have said, to joint ministerial decisions or simple ministerial decisions, the substance of the bill. How sure can we feel about this? And public awareness and education? What are you doing about it? My colleague asks about divisions. Fields of awareness, education for the public, to make environmental protection an estate of society. Whatever legislation we may bring on technical issues, we will never proceed to give you an answer where a section needs to be directed, so that there can be a debate on the substance. In this area too, the government applies a policy without a realistic and comprehensive plan, that is, within the government - it is not just a matter of a ministry, you know, Minister, and you know it very well about the environment, it is a matter which is broader - and as in other areas of policy. The course of recycling in our country has never been an easy case. Some important steps have been taken in recent years, which should accelerate. The issue of the environment must not be linked to any political games, should not be confined to opportunityal solutions and to fragmentary actions. It requires an integrated and single policy. We're already late. There is no time for other errors. Unfortunately, this government recycles its mistakes in many areas. It's extremely effective in this. We had tabled an amendment to you at some point - and I spoke about it, Minister - to which, if you remember correctly last month, we had a specific extension. We asked for an extension of the deadline for Article 15(1) until 31 December. We were asking for it to go by December. We thought it necessary. And you replied to us at the time that 'we cannot do this', 'we cannot extend'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u215	But we're not giving an extension. Who told you we were giving you an extension?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u216	That's not what I'm telling you. I'm telling you why we're not extending this. The question I am asking you, Mr Minister, is why you do not give an extension until December, to something that the system is currently asking for, so that the system can go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u217	In the bill of construction, however, I answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u218	You'll answer me. I am talking about this amendment that we have asked for. It's not the intention of re-entrusting it to every bill. Why don't you extend this so that we can move on? Of course, in conclusion, on the subject which I think has been used up at first, at least in terms of Democratic Independence and with the placement of my own in Mr Pappas, we have been exercising a specific, responsible opposition to the issue of licences from the very beginning. We don't exercise a sterile opposition. You are bringing an amendment to the whole draft law with twenty changes. So we have asked you and have waited for the Minister to come here to say whether or not he accepts two conditions, two changes to the amendment: the first is the guarantee of good execution to be lodged in advance and not in retrospect, and the second, the second, where he had to be submitted together with the other conditions. These are two specific changes which we consider would make it easier not to present the mistakes that had been made a couple of years ago. So we are telling you that the Minister of State has not yet come to reply either positively or negatively to the two specific changes we have asked for. If they are accepted, we shall vote on the amendment that it has put forward. If these amendments are not accepted, we will vote'residents' in this amendment. This is our responsible attitude, calling for concrete changes. That is how it became a National Broadcasting Council, when the Conference of Presidents laid down specific conditions and changes, accepted, the National Broadcasting Council was set up and we can now move forward. Finally, with regard to television licences, where necessary, Minister, a class in an irresistible television scene which has existed over the past two and a half years, three and a half years now. The National Broadcasting Council now exists and can go ahead. But at last, changes must be made through a debate, as you accepted some changes a moment ago. In any case, the Minister of State has so far not even answered - despicable to answer - why he is making them or not accepting the specific changes that the Democratic Incorporation has asked for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Konstantinos Katsafadas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u220	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, an issue which could and could be a field of convergence and consensus is the extension and implementation of recycling mechanisms. Unfortunately, Minister, with your personal attitude, with your personal rhetoric, both in the committees and today in the plenary process, wanting to dynamise and discredit what the previous governments have done, with this educational role that you claim to us and show us what are the best ways of protecting the environment, wanting to privatise and possess the absolute sensitivity to the environment - like us, our children, our generations, the next generations, we do not live in the same environment and we do not care for the environment of the country - you have a strong force in this situation. You rejected any legislative proposal on the part of the Officerial Representation Party, and you fully bear the responsibility for the fact that in this bill, while there could be some serious shocks, unfortunately, we will lead to this result of the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, let us talk about the bill. Unfortunately, at the moment we are talking, the performance of our country in terms of recycling is disappointing. I am briefly saying that the rate of recycling and waste recovery in our country is marginally moving to 16%, when the European average is 70%. In Greece in particular, 15.81 kg of waste per inhabitant, when the European average is 10 kg. Our country, as the previous colleague from SYRIZA said - and I must stress this again - is in the 22nd place for a total of twenty-eight countries of the European Union. Negative position, negative record. It is characteristic that the collective system of alternative packaging management is active in the field of recycling packaging waste, but which accounts for about 20% of the volume of waste produced. It is clear, therefore, that it is not only necessary to improve our performance, but also to reform the regulatory and operational framework to strengthen recycling infrastructures and meet all needs. I say this, ladies and gentlemen, because today there is an incomplete framework, it is a fact. But the imperfections and weaknesses in this context, unfortunately, are not treated with the bill we are debating today. Just to point out that it is dispersed, unlicensed and uncontrollable, recycling companies that do not comply with the rules, do not respect the environment and create unfavourable conditions of competition. The Government comes and changes the regulatory and operational framework for the collective system of alternative packaging management. But how much is their viability and function strengthened, Minister, when the compulsory reserve of 35% is introduced? Don't you know that the country is under capital control, which your government has brought? Do you not know that all this overtaxation has created a suffocation in business and that companies and businesses are unable to repay their obligations? But let's also go to the question of the essential and efficient involvement of self-government first grade in recycling. We are talking about local management plans, and we are right to talk, except that these local projects should be based on realistic foundations, to set realistic targets and, above all, to address local specificities. I would therefore like to refer to the island regions, where the amount of recyclable waste produced is not large, and there is a clear question of costs, technical difficulties in creating infrastructure and transport problems, which are also combined with costs. These issues, especially for island regions, are not dealt with in this bill. The island municipality and the island region means something quite different, since they have quite different conditions. There can be no horizontal treatment, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, for these municipalities in the same way as we face a urban or continental municipality. There are also no arrangements that would give incentives for inter-democratic cooperation between the municipalities, as well as incentives for specific arrangements for inter-democratic cooperation between the island municipalities in what it has to do with recycling. But, ladies and gentlemen, that is where we should put our burdens even further, because the game for implementing and expanding recycling is won or lost in small sets, at the local level, at the level of the municipalities. To date, the municipalities have been restricted to waste collection for recycling, and now the bill allows them to become involved in management, but it is not certain that this can be done without any data on spatial planning problems, without incentives being given and without addressing the specificities that exist, such as the ones I have just mentioned. I do not, of course, understand, Mr Minister, where your optimism and your certainty arises from this draft law will be reduced by 50%. I would also point out that it is not possible for the National Recycling Agency to be supervised and controlled throughout the country. I believe that there should also be a delegation of powers to local government. As far as Article 6 is concerned, to restrict the use of plastic bags, of course we are all in this Chamber in agreement with this objective. However, a rationalisation is needed in the calculation of the imposition of the management fee on companies that produce these plastic bags. They are Greek companies, ladies and gentlemen, which operate competitively even against Chinese companies. They offer jobs to at least 12 thousand Greek citizens and the imposition of 4% of the turnover will lead to closure and thousands of people being at the threshold of unemployment. No one says there should be no end. The end, however, should be reduced to 1% of the turnover, given that the profit margin of these companies is really very small. A reference, Mr President, to the National Recycling Agency, which is being upgraded. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, of course, you think that you are stepping up this organism, by modifying its organisational chart and setting up a fifty-one position. We believe that the thirty-one posts which exist in the establishment plan are sufficient, as long as they are covered and staffed, since today the organization is under-represented. The regulation provides that fines imposed by the Agency on the environmental burden of non-compliance with the recycling rules will be collected from the tax and in accordance with the Public Revenue Tax Code. That is how we believe that the collection of fines will increase. The question, however, is who can assure us that this money will be attributed to the National Recycling Agency, given that it exists in the medium term. Who can assure us that this money will not go to close the black holes in the budget and fail the revenue you have. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that the country does not suffer so much from institutional intervention, but from the question of the implementation of these interventions. I therefore expect the government to make clear commitments about the time of adopting all these ministerial decisions in order to implement the law that will be passed. Unfortunately, I did not expect this treatment from the Minister, as I said at the beginning of my position, for all the proposals that New Democracy has made to the committees. However, we must all understand that the environment is not colourless, it is not blue, green, yellow, and black. The environment is heritage, which we have received from previous generations, and we must deliver it to the next in an even better situation. And this is what we should all work together, apart from our ideas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Mr Nikolaos Xydakis has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are completing the vote on a bill which has been debated extensively and which has been heard from many aspects - and from those who have come and have heard from the political parties too - many things. My impression is that, despite the individual criticisms being made, there is a general agreement and we are going to vote, with the agreement of many Members. This shows that we understand, at least in 2017, the huge economic, social and political importance of how we manage waste and how we recycle. We still need a few steps, a few steps of boldness. And the few remarks I will make selective are more insinuations and appeals to the Ministry's political leadership to become much more bold. First of all, which concerns all of us, is the management of solid urban waste and not so much of packaging materials, for which we have achieved a decent percentage - we are close to the European average - solid urban waste and organic waste, which we still bury in the HITs and landfills at 80%. It's a percentage that doesn't honor us like a winter economy and a society that wants to see ahead. We are also not honoured by the fact that we are paying millions of euros a year to bury waste, which is not useless. We pay millions of euros every year to the European authorities for illegal landfills. So this is also an appeal to the Left Government, which has an environmental conscience and to the MPs, who are aware of where Greece should move after the crisis, is to urgently ask the Ministry of the Environment to request the strategic plan for the development of organic waste for the years that come and how we will be engaged in the whole of society, what is the plan of the so-called 'coffee bin'. That is what we need to ask, and that should be our next debate. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased The recycling legislation has been in place for over a decade. It incorporated a European directive, which generally worked well throughout Europe and recycling into packaging materials, made it the responsibility of producers and importers, of those who have a product. It appears that the basic concept, it did not affect the public and it achieved relatively satisfactory recycling rates. However, we have some comments, which we have heard from the collective systems, which bear the burden of implementing this recycling. One observation, which has also been heard here, is that the law imposes a cap on the reserve, to be up to 10% of the administrative costs. This is generally correct and the Ministry's incentive is understandable. However, at operating expenses, you cannot have a horizontal criterion. We've seen this in other laws. In an organization that has 3.4 million revenues, 300,000 is over - enough. In a small organization, a small collective system that has 300,000 revenues, with 300,000 cannot pay either three employees, no power, no rent, no other functionality. I think that exceptions will be requested from the EEAN, the supervising body, but it will be good for some future thought, to see this more flexible. EOAN is another matter. The Act provides for aid. He's subordinated, still running at old speeds, slow. He was invited by the Minister on the 2016 report. It's not published, it's not posted on the site, Minister. I've been looking for her. They have not been approved either in 2015 or 2016 by the Governing Council. Not yet published. They are not available to every citizen. The 2015 and 2016 reports are valuable public data that highlight and support the supervisory work of the State. He should be at our disposal. It is a frustration, which is not justified. Because here we are using these elements. The Ministry's giving it to us. Therefore, with all the support provided by the law and the expressed political will of the Ministry, EEAN, the supervising body, which has decisive competences and control and sanctions, must play a decisive role. We have also been informed by operators that there is a very large proportion of tax evasion, a rate of about 40% to 45%, which brakes recycling. We also have a reduction in consumption and recycling, that is, the development of mechanisms. In other words, if half the persons liable for the collective packaging system do not pay and yet have their products, we have a serious structural problem. So the supervising body should be moving quickly and by means of legislative procedures, because it is unfair competition. There is a serious producer who pays his contribution and participates in the systems and there are producers, such as banana producers. On the banana packaging, they pay nothing, in consultation with the three, four big retailers, say, have been found. These are the issues, because we are voting for the best laws and, unfortunately, from inertia, frugality or other weaknesses of the administration, the laws remain on paper. Also in the responsibilities of the EEAN, which we support, is to monitor and control the proper functioning of the collective systems. We would like to know in some reasonable time if there are collective systems that have been checked, they have been found not to fulfil the conditions of operation and yet are working. Are there any of these? From the entire debate that has taken place, it seemed that all this recycling industry, which has been set up, is an industry which has a healthy economic picture, healthy elements, creates wealth, opens up many jobs, with thousands of workers and has an upward trend, despite reducing consumption in the years of the crisis. It's a profitable industry. What we need to see is, together with this healthy industry, how we will further support entrepreneurship, social and solidarity entrepreneurship, how we will give new opportunities, particularly in combination with an ambitious and bold environmental education programme, how we will create a new environmental consciousness, an active awareness, with a mark on the economy and everyday life, not a wishful one. It is not generally and vaguely an ecology for cute ones. It's an economy, it's wealth, it's an organization of everyday life. I will give you two examples and I will finish with them. I heard a speech from the Vice-President of Central Macedonia, Mr Utika, who spoke about hazardous industrial waste. It was thirty-four thousand tonnes in 2011 and 2020 with projections, according to today's figures, going to thirteen thousand. Is it just a reduction in industrial production, or are we disposing of hazardous industrial waste in hidden disposal, in accidental non-system disposal, or export abroad? It is such things that the competent supervisory authorities should check. I would like to mention two examples and make two calls to the Ministry of the Environment. I'm an islander, and I travel many times a year. Every day an average population of Greek is on board, about forty thousand people are on board. I've never seen a recycling system on board the ships. Can we give a pedagogical example to the Greek citizens that, in this easy, limited packaging is being recycled? Can we also give a course of treatment to tourists who travel to respect the country that hosts them? Second matter. You spoke detailedly of the nylon bag. You said we should dare. Maybe it's a little early. We're giving a margin. It is my opinion that we should dare to abolish the nylon bag, even now. We should be bold and ask for things. The nylon bag is not just a facilitator to the supermarket's client. It's a disaster of the most valuable resource we have for postponing the wounded Greek economy. When we estimate that tourism is 20% of GDP and the Greek and foreign tourist sees in the forest, in the rheumatia, in the beach, in the nylon bag, which the fish swallow, and that the whole or all of that, in danger, fish flora of the Aegean eats bag, what are we waiting for? Shouldn't the supermarket client be upset? Let's dare. That's why we're here. That is why we are the Left Government in the crisis, in order to dare such things, to proceed with the bag, to move on to such things, which, apart from a substantial environmental footprint, have economic gains and a huge message of political action to the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I really think that this bill which we are debating today is a long-standing bill which can, of course, improve and improve as long as the time goes. I agree with many of the remarks made by Mr Nicos Xydakis. I would like to say that this bill is really a cut-off, because it is fully part of a new development plan, which goes beyond this development model, which we have lived through over the past decades and which has brought us into bankruptcy in 2010. It is a bill that fully forms part of the logic of sustainable development, of development with a social and ecological sign, and that is how we need to see it. Therefore, it is not just a draft law implementing a European directive or revising a framework, which has been in place since 2001, but it has not actually been implemented. And it was not implemented with the co-responsibility of the central governments and the local government I and II levels, which had to have made much more specific and much quicker progress in what we call "alternative waste management". So in the area of alternative management, despite the fact that the legislative framework has been in place since 2001, little has been done. The 16% percentage of recycling says it all, as is 85%, which reaches the HYTAs, where there are HYTAs, because they are not everywhere yet. For this very reason, and also for the implementation of this draft law, and also for what will generally happen next, the role of local authorities is very critical. It is crucial for both the implementation and management of national planning, regional planning and local management plans, which have been voted on in the logic of integrated management at source, recycling, composting, re-use, operation of residue sites, which need to be minimised rather than 85%, but 15% in a perspective. It is also crucial that the role of OTAs and EOAN, the Greek Recycling Agency, for the dissemination, advertising, education of citizens and local societies, in order to create a new social consciousness and behaviour, so that citizens become co-responsible, both for the daily management of garbage, which we fly, but also as part of the public's participation in another model of development, which will raise the country's contribution to saving the planet. Because that is what this is about, and I think our rapporteur, George Diaras, has raised these issues in his prototype. I have therefore talked about the crucial role of the OTAs, especially in the islands, which are linked to rapid tourism development. There are still serious problems in 2017. There are still uncontrolled waste management sites, for which we are paying fines - the Minister said about 50 million - there is a problem of placing even landfill sites and continuing conflicts for the final selection of landfill, there is a problem with the placement of sorting centres, there is a transport issue. All these issues have not yet been solved in many of the islands and, indeed, in many of the tourist - developed islands. There is also a deficit in the collective management systems, which I did not hear. It is the deficit in processing the residues of metallurgy, and in particular in terms of us and in Syros, of the shipbuilding zone, where, for example, the issue has not been resolved: the residues of the sandblasting process, how they will be dealt with and where they will go. So, by returning to the OTAs, I would like to say that it is important that Articles 8 and 9, particularly for the islands, provide incentives, as are fines in Articles 17 and 18. Of course, it is important that, together with the OTAs, an important role is assigned to the economic and social partners as well. I shall also speak about the amendment to produce electricity from biogas and biomass, which is very important. In addition, it also meets the request of the Naxos Association of Agricultural Cooperatives, which unfortunately became a great spice. The SYRIZA MPs were separated - during the leadership of the SYRIZA - and the SYRIZA organisation to friends and enemies of farmers and NAH Naxos. I would like to assure you that, in today's vote, there are no enemies either of Naxos' agricultural production or of the farmers of Naxos. There are only friends who are currently implementing this request, which did not include their proposal, this biogas and biomass power plant is an extension of licensed agri-food establishments in a rural, productive and not other units, which are not linked to agri-food production. In conclusion, I would like to make a comment on the New Democracy attitude. Unfortunately, this oblivious shift of attitude from 'yes' to the committees in today's 'no' shows that, once again, the micro-party perception of the current leadership of the New Democracy has prevailed, which also proves to be unsatisfactory and superficial in this matter. It is clear, however, that the people will not follow these tactics, and certainly, ladies and gentlemen, they will turn your back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u226	Forgive me for a small parentheses, which has nothing to do with today's bill. Not even two weeks have elapsed - I was the one, Nikos Xydakis and other colleagues - we saw the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy - I do not want to believe that it should give political responsibility to the murder of Zafiropoulos. Today the guilty man has been found and confessed to this murder and has nothing to do with political motives. The ancients said: "Don't precede the language of the mind." And I'm stopping here because we've seen too many kinds of krone these lately. On the subject now. I would like to go back very much and remind you of something very important, which said at the 'Social Convention' Russo: 'Natural avenges those who violate its rules'. Some people were just saying, but come on, a philosopher is now, and something tells us. No, not at all. It took years, more than fifty years - I would say - to see, in practice, exactly what Russo meant at the time. And I'm explaining. On the altar of profit was sacrificed and the environment is sacrificed daily. Once, so we saw some archbishops, curious, with some vinegar, who had predicted almost with mathematical accuracy what will happen on the planet earth. Today, with mathematical accuracy, we collect what we did not follow. The Amazon forest, which is one fifth of the planet's lung, has remained almost half and less. We see these strange climate change - and it is not one and two examples, but they are dozens not to say hundreds - and we look at them like that and say it is a natural phenomenon. No, it's not! And, indeed, we have seen with incredible insistence that the President of the United States question the delayed sensitivity of Europeans to climate change at the Paris Summit and the people who had put their hands on it and told him what you are saying? Does this have anything to do with the bill? I say they've got too much. The European Union - we must say this - had a sensitivity, it was a pioneer in environmental matters. Really, he was a pioneer. And it is not at this moment that modern society, in my opinion, means that sustainable development and recycling are not part of this society. It does not mean modern society, where environmental education is a major lesson, a basic lesson. I was pleased to hear the Minister himself say: we as a country have done what? We have done little, and we must have the sincerity to recognize it. I saw a few hours ago, because I have the patience of watching everyone, Mr. Screka, supposedly asking the Minister a provocative question: 'What will you do in a year and a half? There will be no...» etc. An old proverb says "the house hanged doesn't speak of rope". We all know that, in the 20th century, the unreasonable use of natural resources and overconsumption was a sign. Not anymore! And we must confess. Post-war Europe has changed, it has adopted almost all aspects of environmental movements. Five days ago WWF made a calculation at the spiritual center of the Municipality of Athens. It was really, sensational about the evidence, and I was pleased to see these children, who have almost been vindicated, if not everything, to most of them had said. What do I mean? It's a step. It doesn't mean the bill solves all the problems. For Christ's sake! It is a step, however, which, unfortunately, no one was interested in decades in doing so, because political costs were great. No one then invested either in knowledge or technology with a long-term perspective. Recycling has been the victim of this culture and I was pleased to see an interview that the Minister has spoken this language. What does recycling mean, just Greek? Apart from raw materials, work, goodwill, quality of life, quality of the environment, we are a tourist country. What's the heavy industry? Tourism, agriculture, livestock. Immediately, Immediately. I have listened with great respect to both Mr Amyras and the spokesman for the Democratic Incorporation, but even a New Democracy MP, who I know has sensitivities, Mrs Rapt, and I am pleased. We can all contribute together. He doesn't take another postponement. And there's no luxury for fifty-four people. Minister, it had to be more. It's a little. It's a matter of life from now on. I would also like to say here that some people, on the altar of profit, despise almost everything. You have noticed at the metro stations how nice there is something ancient with a modern work. Like the ancients, for example, on the subject of the Greek. Yeah, well he did the Ministry of Culture and he raised his legs. Of the six thousand three hundred, about three hundred will also show the investment. What's the problem? Finally, because I will not use all my time, I would like to highlight a point that shows that something is changing in this country. This is the Electronic Waste Register. I'm so glad to see it. For some people, these look like Sanskrits. What's that? A few days ago, in another arbitrary bill, we saw the Electronic Building ID, Sanskrit writing. A while ago Olga Gerovasili passed the electronic signature, passed the electronic way of getting paid, the plastic money, as well as the electronic introduction of a Stadium Service. We needed six months and three hundred signatures, while in Estonia within eighteen minutes a company was created. And then all the time. There's been a big noise in the last few days about the online ticket. Wasn't it supposed to happen? What can we do? Any change, which some did not, for political costs or other reasons - I do not care - is a question of criticism. What happened? Why are we criticising? Could Spirji deal with it at once? Oh, no. They're on top. The question is, Mr. Screka and many others: Hey, you guys, you've had forty-five years. Most of these are conquests...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u227	Where were you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u228	Don't interrupt me. You're unfair to yourself when you interrupt me. I've never interrupted anyone three, three and a half years, who's been here. Where have you been? What prevented you from making plastic money? What prevented you from getting into recycling? What was it that prevented you from doing something to get the country out of front than you were only working for two or two families? These have carried 800 billion - I will keep saying it! - abroad! It's 800 billion! Read what 'DIE WELT' writes - I have it with me - in which economic heavens are 800 billion, on which offshore, on what Panama papers! A parentheses: a journalist who made real journalism and ate the mud of the century was recently murdered. Does that remind you of anything? Instead, what do we see lately? Did you see what Mrs Tsakalou said now that the 'SIEMENS' case is being avenged? I don't want to remind you, because I'm going to be a bad guy. How was this country governed? So let's all get out of the way. Electronic governance is waiting for us. Estonia has given the tone. A country, which was not even a country twenty-five years ago, currently has economic indicators, envy by the Germans, the French, the English and the Americans. Is this government doing it? Yes, he does. If you go through all the bills, you'll see something new. Come and help us all. We don't have the luxury, as a country, of fighting any more. Let me raise the tones of voice, I'm the first to recognize the good to my opponent. And I've done it. For example, I liked the statement by Mr. Mitsotakis when he counseled Kurts not to cooperate with the far rightists. I consider this statement to be positive, and I have no problem saying it, like many other positive things, which have been said to our opponents. And today, here, I heard Giorgos Amyras, my friend, who made nice and correct suggestions. I think the Minister has ears to hear them. We no longer have the luxury of leaving this country to two hundred families. So I don't want to remind you of any more unpleasant things, and I'm being bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty students and students and five educational attendants from the 2nd High School of Almyros Magnesia. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] In addition, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make another announcement to this House: the Ministers for Maritime Affairs and Immunities, Home Affairs, Economy and Development, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Finance, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Environment, Infrastructure and Transport and Tourism, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Home Affairs, Economy and Development and National Defence, have tabled 1-11-2017 draft law entitled ‘Social Staff Training of the Ministry of Shipping and Municipal Policy, Enforcement of Transparency and Religious Democracy in the fields of responsibility of the Ministry of Shipping and Defence, Strengthing social participation in Coastal Affairs, Issues on other personal provisions relating to ports and ports.’ It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Mr Alexandros Triantafylides has the floor for seven minutes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a necessary contribution. I intended to speak only on the subject of the amendment, which seems to have enjoyed the greatest possible - overwhelming majority - the one concerning the opening of procedures, in order to restore the status in the broadcasting landscape of lawlessness and apathy, and finally to obtain these licences, which are publicly owned. However, after I express my pleasure, because I am succeeding in the Thanasis Papachristopoulos in Step, I will make a necessary intervention. Mr President, you will forgive me and understand why. Because I was prepared to refer to the Committee on Ethics in the House. The very last time I was in the Stepma of plenary, when we discussed the Vangelis Apostolos bill on the pricing of products paid after seven, ten months with open invoices, etc. - after coming from the Step and leaving the Chamber and I heard Giorgos Amyras announcing the appalling event of the murder of the wronged Michael Zafiropoulou - I was charged with the charges by Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Javara, myself personally, no matter how strange this may seem to you. I won't make any descriptions at all. Absolutely no one. I will read only about the Minutes, testify and request. I read from his speech, which was made in my absence here, in the Holy Chamber of the Greek Parliament. He says Mr Javarras "I have heard a colleague who, by addressing our party, said that we are the middlemen's party". I give a parentheses, he forgot to say 'and not to farmers and farmers'. It was a purely political assessment - evaluation. I continue: 'This is not a political argument. That's an awkward! Anyone who does not have the guts and who does not have the power of the soul, the mind, and the scientific documentation that requires such an invoicing and such an address to his opponent literally directs the weapons of those who do not understand from democracy.' I make Mr Javarra's speech in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Immediately afterwards, the press offices came in for reproduction and a press release came out of the websites. They said “In particular, the blue MEP directly accused SYRIZA MP Alexandros Triantafylides, who had previously described the New Democracy as “broker party”, of directing the hands of those who do not respect Republic against specific political persons and parties.” This is a publication from the 'SKAI.GR', which I am also tabling in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] When I was asked the next day at “ALPHA” TV, I said: “I respect the memory of the wrongdoer Michael Zafiropoulos and my silence is the minimum leap in the pain of his family and I do not speak. I asked the Greek Police to speed up and do its debt immediately." Today, following the morning announcements by the Greek Police about the arrest and confession of the guilty of the murder of Michael Zafiropoulos, I address the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, my colleague Konstantinos Javara. If you want to seriously say that you represent the minimum parliamentary morality, the minimum parliamentary ethics, the minimum denominator of behaviour and ethos that, as you said, we teach through Parliament's Chamber, then I invite you to ask for an apology. I call on you, Mr Javarra, and the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group, who I see in front of me, Mr Chiara. Please convey our request, our demand of reality, eighteen days later. I have been silent for eighteen days, and I have not said a word. And I was waiting, at the moment, for Mr Javarras, our colleague, to come forward with his apologies for his cause to target a colleague in Parliament, to incriminate directly, in other words to say that my word puts guns in the hands of people. He is a man who, along with the overwhelming majority, all the colleagues, denounces all forms of violence, wherever it comes from. Thank you for your understanding, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u231	Mr. Colleague, we have to come to an agreement. I have listened very respectfully to your need to refer to this issue. But you've already spoken for five and a half minutes. At least on the other topic, please don't spend three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u232	No, Mr President, I will close. Already with their positions, I understand the necessity of the overwhelming majority of the House, i.e. almost all the parties of the Greek Parliament, to authorize and prescribe the National Broadcasting Council with legal, political, moral and scientific documentation and to support its choices. This amendment does nothing but bring these suggestions, which are no more than what, ladies and gentlemen? It is foreseen that the licenses for an information programme will be purely general. The subcategory of the subject matter is hereby repealed. This protects people who will claim and get permission, that is to say they will not have unfair competition. Secondly, it is set at 50% of 30%, which is valid, the employment rate of news reports on local issues. It shall be determined that the complaint also falls within the scope of the notice of the National Broadcasting Council, a guarantee letter of participation in the competitive procedure. Transitional provisions concerning the operating status of already operating content providers shall be laid down. So on this issue, I think there will be the greatest possible majority on this issue, which the National Broadcasting Council will do with the necessary real power to deal with all the issues, because I believe that none of us want to continue this unreasonable and prosperous landscape in broadcasting. Seven licenses. They were decided by the PSE. It is at least 35 million to 245 million. Decision of the PSE. So, luck? Oh, no. There's the documentation from the previous competition. Four hundred people are the minimum number of employees. Labour relations are being protected. Is it clear, as the Minister said this morning, that we need, as a political system, Mr Kefaliannis, to correct the wall together - I believe that and I express my full support - in this process, so that it will never be put again - with this I am closing down, Mr President, and I thank you for your tolerance - the dilemma: 'With the people or with the pimps?' Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fourteen American students and three Princeton University attendants. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] My colleague, Mr Megalomous Anastasios, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u234	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin my speech with one, not so unrelated to what we are discussing, but I think it is appropriate to mention it. A short time ago I attended a committee that ran alongside Parliament, which was entitled: "The space and its applications: A development opportunity for Greece", where the speaker who informed us about it was the academic Dr. Krimizis stop. This man explained to us what applications we can, through space, have, to make our lives easier. I have heard too many speakers - either the government or the counter-population - talk about the operation of an electronic database, about the electronic ticket. We have arrived in 2017, which we have almost conquered the space, which, by satellites, can even read the car plates and come to Greece to discuss the obvious things that should have been done yesterday. And this is not a 'category' to the government, but to the whole political system, which runs until now. When we do the self-evident thing, then, we should not be so proud, but above all we should be ashamed of the whole political system that we have had up to now in our country. I now come to the current draft law, which deals with an extremely important subject, the recycling sector, which is an area in which Greece is strong among the European partners. We are the poor relative to this European family, as none of the previous governments - and even the current one - dealt with this issue as appropriate. No one gave the importance of education in this regard. Youths should be trained and citizens in general respecting the environment and protecting it. Nothing like that happened. How many of the citizens today know what sustainability or a cyclical economy is? Who knows if in the neighborhoods there's a bundle for all the materials, plastic, glass, paper? Who knows if cds or hard disks should be thrown into the blue recycling bin? I invite you all in here to make some visits, even to the municipalities you are close to, and to ask the officials responsible for this, in which boxes we have to throw these materials away. I am sure that you will see what I have seen, that there are conflicting views and a lack of relevant knowledge. So we're talking about a lack of information. That's where we have to go. We must from kindergarten to administration, to all citizens either by television spots or by some very careful campaigns and by other a thousand ways that we can find, cultivate an environmental consciousness and finally, see something in practice, not just in words. It is also known by committees, but also by other positions in plenary, that the flag of the Union of Centres is the development of education on all issues. In particular, there must be recycling education. Therefore, we could, under no circumstances, oppose the theoretical principles introduced by this bill. In particular, we are very positive with Article 16, which provides for an organisation by the EEW of a national information and information system for users and consumers. It's what it takes, as long as it works properly. But we are now coming to the bitter truths our society faces. From the first Law No 4042/2011 in which the concept of recycling was actually introduced into the Greek society, but until the last Law of 2012 we were unable - or the governments so far - to promote recycling effectively. No one has achieved the goals. No one even tried to adapt to European directives. And I think that's everyone's responsibility. I will say that and I will say it again, because we all have to understand what mistakes have been made in the past. Reading the bill, I felt like it was about another country. I have heard the Minister very carefully say that we are very ahead and, perhaps, also a small problem. Why? Because we do not have the level that Sweden has in environmental matters. We don't have the briefing, as I said. We do not have the relevant education. I am afraid that very different conditions exist in Greece will not allow us to implement and implement these laws that - I repeat - have been taken for many years. Who would not agree with all the objectives set in this bill? We are in favour of Ottawa support. However, we do not know how these 10,000 000 will be enough to meet the increased obligations that are created. We all know very well that most recycling systems are operating under the surveillance of the TAs, which in essence manage most recyclable materials. However, they face significant economic and technical problems, as they have neither personnel nor proper equipment. Of course, we are in favour of incentives for Ottawa, which achieve high recycling targets set out in Article 9. But these are incentives, which we cannot assess and judge satisfactorily, as you allow too many decisive and critical details to be formulated for incentives by a common ministerial decision. In other words, you want to support a 'pig in the sack' provision. You say, take it, vote it and we will see how we do it." We must be very careful about both the presidential decrees and ministerial decisions. We continue to see what others are the tragic images that we are facing today in this country. At the moment, we continue to send 83% of our waste to HYTA, when the average in Europe is 31%. Also, despite the fact that European directives tell us to recycle 50% of the materials by 2020, we are asking for an extension by 2025. We belong to this small group of seven countries, which are calling for an extension, in order to achieve this objective. Also, with other elements, municipalities recycle only 4.7% of recyclable materials, while Alternative Management Systems recycle only 16%. It is a very small number, in relation to the average that exists in Europe. Since 1980, about forty years until now, no government has given priority to protecting the environment. It's tragic what happened. No government has drawn up a roadmap on which to go and not these plans we have given Europe, just to avoid fines so that there are no CSR in Greece. We are in 2017, we said before that we have conquered space and we still have landfills that have been closed and do not know where their waste is going. There are examples of these in the Peloponnese. I would now like to present to the Minutes a summary of the annual report, as well as extracts from the WWF, which show us what the situation is in Greece. [[At this point, MP Serres Anastasios Megalamoustakas presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The report identifies as a top problem the illicit disposal of waste. The solid waste in 2017 is marked by two sentences for Greece by the European Court of Justice, which concern the lack of planning for hazardous waste, which the court imposed on us EUR 10 000 000 fines and a penalty of EUR 30,000 for every day, which we do not adapt and do not comply with the judgment. The fines in Greece are, of course, used to them, because in recent years we have EUR 40 000,000 fines for such cases. And we find it difficult, Minister, - it is not just your fault - to find 1.5 million to continue the work in Tumbo Casta. It is a very simple example that I can mention from my everyday life, not having money to do very important work and pay fines. Some more of the pathogens that exist in the recycling sector in the Greek area are the lost funds, which we have not exploited, is the lack of planning, as I said before, but also the paradox that exists in the recycling area. We believe - we hope not to verify - that this bill does not provide any solution at all to this problem, according to studies. The 1 billion is estimated, according to studies, for the non-economy in recyclable materials. The Centro Association has some basic positions for this area. We are in favour of installing bins in all neighborhoods for any material. We want to motivate citizens, but also municipalities to participate in the prevention, creation and recycling of waste. We also believe that every municipality should be self-sufficient in the management of recyclable materials and there should be no first and second-class municipalities, while HYTAFs are created in sites such as old quarries, so that the adjacent settlements, where the whole process of composting and treatment of waste, are not disturbed. We consider it very important to promote cooperation between the LAGs on the collection of chemicals from the chemical industry, as well as planning to create special factories to process these hazardous wastes. We cannot send our materials, these dangerous waste to Germany to manage them and even to pay for it. That's enough! Once again, I told you before, we also see in this bill that there are too many ministerial decisions and that there are issues dealing with ministerial decisions. This is unacceptable to us. We stress it every time we see this in the bills you bring. There are seven we have identified in Article 2, Article 5, Article 6, Article 9, Article 17 and, in particular, Article 21. This is also a culmination, as everything you decide with this article is given the opportunity to change with a presidential decree. That's not something we want. That's nothing different from what you've been blaming for so many years. We are also opposed to the provision in a time of crisis, with which you are strengthening and extending the Greek Recycling Organization, when we cannot pay for the existing organic positions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need very little time to complete. It is very difficult for the ordinary Greek citizen to understand when we cannot cope with what is already in existence, to create new ones. We do not want to believe that you are doing so to create a field of party interest and increase the client state and that is why you will be accountable. We cannot understand why you are moving on to such a move when you are suffocating the costume for SADs and SADs. In conclusion, I would like to stress that because 80% of the environmental law we have at the moment comes from European legislation, proper transposition for the implementation of the relevant directives and regulations must be tackled with the highest priority. Unfortunately, your policy so far has not shown this, as you have effectively abolished the Office for International and Community Affairs of the General Secretariat of the Government, which came and corrected us from making mistakes in the process of implementing the pro-European directive. This office saved us 500 million and even awarded for it, and you came and abolished it, not today, but in a previous bill. There are too many things that can be done in the recycling area in general and in particular in the field of environmental protection. We must take advantage of all European funds so that we do not leave any hole in this area in Greece. We're too far behind, and we're not supposed to get in the way anymore. In fact, all this needs to be done, bearing in mind that there are small and medium-sized enterprises, which can be created in the management of these waste. We must not leave these outside, we must not leave all the economic benefit to large multinationals and we must rely on that. There will be too many jobs opened, there will be revenues for the State from the management of garbage or waste. We are in favour of creating such structures, we are in favour of bills which will help to leave a legacy for future generations, because if we continue in this way we will be destroyed. However, what we must all have in mind in this Chamber is that all of this must be done with consultation, with honest dialogue and with decisions on such important issues all together. We cannot support the fact that we are in democracy if there is no real dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, would you like to speak now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u236	Shall I be in after the secondary talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u237	We have the special speakers who, if they want, will be seconded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u238	Whenever you want to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Deiaras, I know that apart from you, and Mr. Bukokokouros wants to be placed. They're all special speakers here. I don't know if everyone wants to talk. We'll go in a row. I would just ask you to shorten the abbreviations a little, because in the prototypes there was almost all of them over time. Apart from Mr. Lazarides, I see that everyone else has exceeded time. Mr. Diaras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u240	Ladies and gentlemen, in my first speech I said that the planet is at a historic but critical and dangerous turning point. And there are two elements that characterize it. One is overpopulation and the other is overconsumption. If we see the charts on both of them, it's like they're going crazy. Where they go almost horizontally, overpopulation and overpopulation, both combined create what we all know, areas of whole forests to be cut off. Some years in the Amazon were cut forests as much as the size of our country. I don't know if this goes on, probably it's reduced to some extent. Also, we see areas that are converted from fertile to barren, the waters are degraded as aquifers by irrigation and a whole range of other elements that make the phenomenon dangerous. It is a given fact that we cannot continue living as we live until now. We need to do a lot of things and one of the basics, which we are discussing today, is the issue of recycling. This bill and this logic of recycling is a small stone in the circular economy, and the cyclical economy is a parameter in what we call a sustainable economy, which wants other elements. It's not just the cyclical economy. I was expecting, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, as was the picture in the committees that you would support this bill. We may disagree with some articles, etc., but the bill is obviously in a good direction, and that was also seen by the other parties in opposition. While you said to the committees that you would vote, you come today and say that you do not vote at first. Nothing really changed in the bill. Your position, gentlemen of the New Democracy, has changed. I think that two interpretations exist for this: One interpretation is that it is a central political choice that, although we agree on many things, we must therefore disagree on disagreement. This does not, however, help the logic and morality of parliamentaryism. The second interpretation is to go to the other theory that I said about Bouytin, that the system in question cannot be ecological or will be ecological as long as the crocodile can learn to eat grass or the lion live with the sheep. I do not know which of the two interpretations is true, but I find it unjustified that you have changed your attitude and I have waited for the issues that we generally agree and that we vote on and then support them. It will now be very important in the commonly accepted issues that we can move forward. I recognise and honour the honest and reasonable attitude of the other parties in opposition. I also appreciate the view of the JRC, although I am not convinced that we can vote against things that are obviously in today's, given circumstances, that they help to save natural resources, in the cyclical economy or even what we call a social economy, which classical capitalist companies are not, in the end, a social economy. They are civil partnerships with special conditions that are elsewhere, an alternative logic of production. It's not the classic capitalist business.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u241	The capitalism you said before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u242	Bomachin said so. How, then, can one be opposed to setting targets to bring European targets and successes, to giving municipalities incentives and counter-incentives to achieve the goals, to provide them with financial data to make local recycling plans, to strengthen EEAN, which, in fact, we all understand - with eleven people, cannot do the job, to do both controls and design and to help recycling, to how it is created - how do you record if it is not created? - The National Producer Register? Logic things come with the law. Quality objectives are set for upgrading recycling with the four currents in the barrels. Transparency and disclosure of their data shall be established in the TADs. Rights and capabilities are given to the EEW to carry out checks. There is so much good news of the bill that I would really expect all of us here together to vote and work together for the next time, because it is not enough to vote for the law, as many speakers have said. The law changes things in a positive direction. However, we must all mobilise society and citizens in this direction, for information to the citizen, for strengthening environmental education. We really need courage and action at local level, but also at a general, central, state level, to change things for our country, for the good of the citizens and for the good of the planet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd High School Sparta (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Bukkokouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr President. Generally for the bill, I would like to point out that no one opposes it - and we have told the committees, I said it in my prototype - by improving recycling, by improving its results. It has just emerged from the debate that this bill will not be operational and will not catch the targets. We blamed the bill for overregulation, for large state interventions, for issues that we believe will not work. The fact that seven joint ministerial decisions are needed, a presidential decree, a ministerial decision and an extensive decision of the board of directors of the EEAN demonstrates that secondary legislative work needs to be produced which will set all the objectives out of time. This, if you like, dictates the change of attitude of the New Democracy and not just. He overseen, Minister, today your bill from two to three things. The company, if you wish, exploit - within or outside the introductory word - the detection of a murder, which we all condemn unequivocally, the issue of Gender HYTA, for which you have not given any answer, and the Pope's amendment on the licenses of television stations overshadow the bill. As far as the change of attitude is concerned, we do not need to say any more. In 2020 we will see whether the New Democracy stance will be confirmed or whether the draft currently proposed by the government is confirmed. Then, Minister, we did not get any answers for the Gender HYTA. You have opposed opposition to opposition, and indeed, in intense tone, saying that we are accusing you of something that will happen, as if the elements of prediction and planning in the political process are foreign. So, what do you mean, Minister? That the eighteen months will not elapse, which is the duration of the Race HIT, or will Attica cease to produce waste? It produces half the country's waste. In view of this, it is not going to happen. It is happening now and we will be called to deal with it and it will perhaps be one of the biggest issues in the next two years. You tell us about a factory in Schisto, which is still in theoretical terms, nothing else has gone ahead, no placement, no study, for a factory that will process a hundred and eighty thousand tonnes of waste, a minimum quantity, and you tell us not to worry about it. We are concerned, Minister, and we are trying to give the Government a thought on this major issue of waste management in the Attica basin. Are our fears excessive when it is so narrow that the time is needed to deal with the issue? That is why we are telling you that the recycling bill will not work and will be put off schedules. I think it is clearly what we support. If you want my ambition, this is to be confirmed by you, but we do not consider it feasible, so we are voting against. And we do not consider it feasible in the vast overall view of the management of waste in Attica. You're being dramatically delayed, you're desperately delayed, that's what we're telling you. Is that a political exploitation? Unless the government badly thinks, it considers that "the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy will come within a short period of time and this slim bomb will break into its hands". If that is the case, and we are building it. I would now like to refer to an issue that arose during today's sitting, since more than one of my colleagues - in order not to be personal - found the opportunity to criticise our Parliamentary representative, Mr Javarra, for a comment he made on the day of the murder of the late Zahiropoulos. Our parliamentary representative also has the general knowledge and parliamentary morality and experience of not accusing any of our colleagues personally of such matters. However, ladies and gentlemen, we must all accept that verbal violence is also a feature of Parliament in recent years. What do you want me to remind you of? The 'prostitutes', 'German gypsies', 'intermediates', 'or with the people or with pimps' and myriad other expressions that poison political life? Do you have the impression that this verbal violence is not the prelude of raw violence that usually follows it either by political assassinations or by murders of common criminal law? Of course, we do not incriminate anyone personally. But when the atmosphere is poisoned, do you feel that we have no such painful results? Aren't we all working? I should like to tell you about the overall responsibilities of the political system, and our own, if you will, but also of all the governments and of today. When in this country, in the cradle of democracy, murders are being planned through penitentiary shops, are there murderers taking advantage of legal benefits that we have codecisiond or not, are they not general political responsibilities? So don't make some self-sufficient interpretations that Mr. Javarras accused someone in particular. But I think that, as we all condemn raw violence, we must also condemn the verbal violence which is the prepared man that poisons the atmosphere and often leads to such painful results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Georgios Arvanitides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u246	Mr President, I shall not go into second place. I just want to welcome the legislative improvements made by the Minister, for which I believe it is in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u247	My colleague Mr. Synthrakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make a few comments on the bill and on what has been said. The Minister raised a number of issues in his position, where the government's intention to deliver full recycling to small and, above all, large interests is most clearly reflected. He directly confessed that the draft law opens sail to entrepreneurship. That's what he mentioned. So the government beggs foreign capital for investments in waste management. Besides, in time, the Minister had probably said that the implementation of the existing legislation is so sufficient that it could increase the annual turnover by EUR 1.675 000. For who? For the people's household or for the monopolistic groups? Apparently for the second. In your position, two or three times you said that the draft law was welcomed by industrialists, management systems and the ESA. You're honest. It's a bill on order of monopolistic groups. As far as we are concerned, the role of municipalities will simply be the headline of the business groups for their pursuits and, at the same time, the link between the state and private partnerships in the public and private sectors. I think that all of this is revealingly also from the point of view of that during the consultation, but also during the debate in committee, you chose industrial and commercial capital and construction groups, while at the same time at the hearing by the workers and at the threat that they received from the employer for their jobs, for their rights, you did not have any talk at all! Minister, you blame the New Democracy for promoting public-private partnerships. That's right. It's an excellence chapter party. You say you promote public investment. No, Minister. You do exactly the same thing New Democracy does. The formerly condemned public-private partnerships by SYRIZA are now the hard core of politics. You are implementing the five public and private partnerships that had to promote PASOK and New Democracy, such as in Western Macedonia, Epirus, Serres, Elias, the Peloponnese where a programme contract has been concluded between FESA and the region. The sixth PPP has emerged for the unit in Thebes. It's already signed. As far as combustion is concerned, you didn't say anything. I put it on, and I'll tell you why. We were telling you in committee, but today, that on the pretext of a false reservation, the road to the incineration of waste gas is wide open, along with residues from mixed waste treatment plants. I'm not going to tell you about the FMD at Volos. We've talked to you in committee. You have unblocked the permit for port facilities and thus give the opportunity to "GET Hercules" to burn, in the first phase, two hundred thousand waste fuels and even imported from Italy. I will tell you about the amendment on biomass - in fact, it is a combustion of biomass - which we are of course voting against. It is a challenge to promote the burning of livestock waste in a bill that is supposed to promote and promote recycling, as you say. Indeed, as in the explanatory statement, the quantities of raw materials required come from agricultural, livestock or forestry holdings. What are you doing? This amendment allows areas outside Attica the installation of power plants with unlimited installed power from biomass, biogas or bioliquids. The only restriction is that the quantities of raw materials required must come from agricultural, livestock or forestry holdings less than thirty kilometres apart. This is an area of two thousand eight hundred and twenty-six square kilometres, larger than that of the Heraklion Prefecture, which is two thousand six hundred forty - one square kilometers. So the business groups will rub their hands. When we revealed with specific reports that through this bill on recycling the government's aim is to promote combustion, the Minister said: 'No, it is not so. It is a lie." This amendment confirms that this is a cannabis truth. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Allow me, Mr President, to use a little more time, because these are amendments here, there are too many issues. You are now aware that in five minutes all these issues cannot be said. You spoke of the counter-incentives as a pressure measure for the implementation of your policy. So let's see the matter of plastic bags. You incorporate a directive of the European Union and impose a squeeze on the plastic bag, so that the EEW's revenues can also be fed in this way. The JRC is neither in favour of plastic bags, nor will it advocate the logic of the anti-kinetics, i.e. the carpeting of the people's household to eliminate the plastic bag in order to promote any other option, extremely expensive, of the single use of biodegradable bags. So there are many ways to overcome this. We have made a concrete proposal to you in relation to the traditional dialect, which can be provided free of charge at points of sale of the products. You didn't say anything. What are you doing this way? You are appalling the destructiveness of many marine types of action of armaments capital. Mr Xydakis comes out and says: 'Let the Left dare apply it'. Don't spit the tail of the donkey on the left! What are you doing this way? In fact, you are acquitted, free the logistics, because the sea is not only destroyed by plastic bags. Indicate the fact that logistics acts inconsistently and pollutes the marine environment, as do industries. The JRC has developed its opinion on the issues of recycling. Let me just say that in relation to the amendment tabled by the JRC concerning the re-establishment of a provincial press mail, the Minister found nothing to say at all. On completion of his post, I found him the Minister, who said: 'The OECD does not allow us'. The OECD toolbox does not allow it. This has justified the refusal to reinstate postal duty, a very serious matter, and we believe that it is actually subject to the jewellery of the European Union and the OECD, in the name of allegedly strengthening healthy competition and developing healthy entrepreneurship. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] In fact, the government maintained the postal discount only for prefecture and local newspapers. Why? In order to serve the public sector and bodies records. This is an unfair and selective regulation. It's disastrous for many regional and local newspapers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u249	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u250	I shall conclude, Mr President. In relation to the Tritsis Park Amendment, we will agree to pay contributions and accrued contributions. But let's say it's a park of a thousand hundred acres with three employees. You realise that they can neither function nor maintain nor keep the park, so it needs the recruitment of permanent staff with full working rights. We are voting 'at present' for the staffing of the ESDP, because we are opposed to mobility on the one hand, but, on the other hand, we consider that there is this need for staff, which, in our view, should have been with permanent and stable work. That is what I wanted to say and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Lazarides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr President. As I said before in my prototype, the Independent Greeks are positive, because the bill is clearly positive, as we have said in the committees and as the institutions have been. What I wanted to say, following the analysis of the amendment by the Minister of State, Mr Pappas, is that some comments have been made from the Opposition, in particular from a colleague, that he must finally put some order into the broadcasting landscape after years, etc. And I was really surprised to hear that thing. For twenty-five years this government has been ruling and has not put the broadcasting scenery into order? In fact, ladies and gentlemen, I was surprised. On the contrary, this government for two, two and a half years has been trying to put the broadcasting scene in order, and those who are blocking are the parties of the Anti-Population, the Officerial Anti-Population, and also the Elosian Anti-Population, the two parties that have been ruling the place for so many years and have been in power, have also been partners. They were in the way. And they have lately made a lot of hurdles. Indeed, let us not forget that they were also blocking the creation of the PSE and the Council of State considered this blockade to be unconstitutional. Another thing I would like to say is the following. Recently, a few days ago, the secretary of the Christophores testified. What did he say? Points and monsters for the two parties that ruled and colluded in the end. Even a dowry for their home had taken care of Christophore for them, beyond what he gave the two parties. He gave - he says - 2% to the party he was ruling, to guarantee him jobs, and 2% he gave to what was in the opposition, so he wouldn't complain. I mean, so nicely taken care of, they had it! And he said too much, I don't want to mention names, the papers wrote them. And I'm asking now. I was amazed that the press, the media, that they should normally do all these days, keep a fish silence. Why is that? But for so many years they took care of them, cared for them, secured them with sea loans, etc., we've told them so many times. Tomorrow, on Friday we will discuss the question tabled by the Chief of Staff. Of course, there is another debacle for Civicism and its Leader. It will be - it says - a debate on increasing crime, because - it says - we have increased crime. Here I have some information from the PPE and Europol and it is worth seeing. Homicide: 2008 was a hundred thirty-nine. 2012 was a hundred sixty-five. 2016 was eighty-one. Let me repeat it. 2012 was a hundred sixty-five homicides and 2016 was eighty-one. Robbery: In 2008 there were three thousand ninety-three. In 2012 there were five thousand nine hundred ninety-two. The year 2016 was four thousand seven hundred thirty eight. Thieves: In 2008 there were sixty-seven thousand three hundred, eighty-seven thousand nine hundred twelve in 2012 and seventy-five thousand eighty-three in 2016. Rapes: In 2008 they became two hundred thirty - two, in 2012 a sixty - seven and in 2016 a hundred fifty - five. Terfiking: In 2008 we had three hundred eighty-six, five hundred ninety-nine and seventy-five in 2012. Where do we have an increase in crime? On the contrary, we have a reduction in crime and not only a reduction, but also an increase in police efficiency. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We see that what we have had, especially in recent cases, which have concerned public opinion - I shall end in less than a minute, Mr President - all this has been solved in very short time and the perpetrators have also been arrested. We had last and detoxified the case of the late Zafiropoulou, where, once again, the Qualifying Opposition raised the tons and was raped immediately to paint the crime politically, and had nothing to do with it. It was a crime of the Common Criminal Law, despite the fact that they tried to take advantage of it politically too. Mercy! And counter-population must have a certain context, have certain limits. We support it, as we have said, and as I said at the beginning of my position, the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. However, allow me to make an observation as President-in-Office with all due respect. Your dentistry was half for Christmas and half for crime. At some point, we have to show...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u254	Let me reply from the microphone, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u255	It's not a matter of answering, because...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u256	No, I will answer you from the microphone, because you have made the point from my microphone. Your remarks are recorded and my answer should also be recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u257	You know that the President-in-Office is not a wheelchair. He's not just giving the floor. I have never thought of myself nor will I do so, if one speaker escapes this matter, to interrupt it. But I particularly want you to deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u258	Sure. I'll answer you. Mr President, this morning, the President-in-Office - and I myself respected him, Mr President, but I see he is still going on and on - did not make any comment on the Vice-Presidents who used two thirds of their time to oppose the government and develop here...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u259	That's what they have to do. Don't get confused.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u260	Sure. I didn't blame them. And I have no right to answer these comments made by my colleagues? I have a right to say, by addressing the President-in-Office, that, if he observes me, because I spoke about the banks this morning, this issue was opened by my colleague, the rapporteur of the New Democracy. And I answered...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u261	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u262	Sure. You spoke of capital control.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u263	You referred to the banks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u264	You spoke of capital control this morning, you made a comparison of the Greek banking system with Europe, and I told you not to make comparisons, because no European country closed three banks. You shut the banks down. That's clearly annoying. The reality is disturbing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u265	Let us not repeat this morning's debate. To be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u266	And now, of course, I made a report, because my colleague, too, talked about...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u267	Mr Colleague, in any case, you would never report again now. And it's not a matter of condolence and opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u268	Oh, no. You won't comment on me...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u269	You know that if the President-in-Office applies the Rules of Procedure, then you must not escape this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u270	There can be no censorship.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u271	It's never been done, because usually we all understand...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u272	And you're going to start censorship from me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u273	Let me tell you, Mr. Comrade. Usually, there are derogations to this issue in the House and current issues are also mentioned. However, when a speech by a colleague entirely does not deal with the matter and does refer to other matters, the President-in-Office has a duty with all due respect - and I have done so with all due respect - to make this observation to you. What you were disturbed about, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u274	I, too, respond with respect, Mr President, and I tell you that we are Members here and we are politicizing. In my prototype, of course, I was placed for the bill, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u275	We are simply in agreement, Mr Colleague, that we do not repeal the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u276	I have a right to give political answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u277	The Regulation shall not be repealed. Derogations exist, but we are not abolishing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u278	Does the Rules of Procedure be abolished by me, Mr President? I answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u279	Mr. Saridis has the floor. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u280	Mr President, you told me that you would give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u281	We said at the end of the speakers, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Saridis is still Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u282	I asked for a short speech for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u283	Mr. Saridis, would you allow Mr. Xydakis to make an intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u284	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u285	Mr. Xydakis, please have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u286	I don't want to be second. I would like to comment on the intervention of the rapporteur, Mr Bukokouros. We're going back to an issue that was closed that night. We mustn't come back. The Opposition is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u287	You weren't here, Mr. Xydakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u288	Sure. Because I was here and I handled it, I tell you, don't come back. Do not speak of verbal violence as prelude to other actions. That's theory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u289	I'm sorry, who brought this back? Didn't Mr. Triantafylides bring it back?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u290	Please, Mr. Chiara. Please! It was a mistake. It was a felony what Mr. Javarras said. I honor him and I suspect him. It was wrong tragic. And that is why with great modesty, and with great seriousness, we handled his intervention that night.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u291	Did I do it with acidity?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u292	Please. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u293	Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be the case. Mr. Buquoir, I'll give you the floor for a minute later. Please let Mr. Xydakis say what he wants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u294	It was a mistake, at least it was an over-interpretation. Unfortunately, because I constantly see the discourse of the anti-politics about the eruption of lawlessness and about a situation that escapes from any reality, I want to say something. Mr Lazarides has already provided some evidence. Have you studied them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u295	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u296	From 2010 until today, crimes have been halved. I'll take a step further. I'm not saying that if the homicides were halved, Greece suddenly became a paradise. We may have other forms of violent behaviour, threats, reasons to fear the world, but this constant demagogic invoicing of lawlessness by the Dedicated Opposition and part of the minor opposition, is not being found in any element, is not being grounded in real circumstances and what is being done is a constant supply of morbid fear to the population. You feed the fear and the bambooes, the ghosts. You do not make politics like this and you do not offer any service to the Greek people and society. Please put the tons down, as we agreed, to remain low from the first moment. Please don't pull it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u297	Mr. Xydakis, thank you. I think you said what you wanted to say. The tons are going down. Be sure. Mr. Bukkaro, as soon as you can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u298	Mr President, I will need the floor for a minute. Honestly for a minute. I think I have approached the whole issue because a number of colleagues raised the issue and brought back the case that Mr Xydakis, the Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA, said he should have closed down. We did not bring it back, Mr Xydakis, but I think you also agree that verbal violence and that poison in the political atmosphere have offered nothing good. And that is why we are not responsible for it, Mr Xydakis. It is an exaggeration, Mr President, to accuse us of representatives of political factions who have used a certain tactic and phrase in recent years and to ask us for a mild opposition. It's too much! We all know each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u299	Thank you. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u300	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Centro Association has been placed to vote'residents' at the outset in this bill. It will support all those articles that open roads for the future and give its tolerance to most of the articles in the bill by voting'residents', the tolerance to see the evolution and usefulness of them. I shall therefore get rid of my second word in commenting on the five ministerial amendments that have been incorporated into the draft legislation in question. I will begin with Amendment No 1323 of the Ministry of Digital Policy with which the responsible Minister, Mr Papas, proposes to amend No.4339/2015 on the procedure for the licensing of private television stations. I understand that the twenty amendments contained in this amendment were proposed by the Independent Authority itself, by the National Broadcasting Council itself. If that is the case, then with this in mind, that Parliament is called upon to show confidence in an independent authority which, because of the way it has been set up, has already enjoyed - at least theoretically - the confidence of all of us, we can only deal with this amendment positively and supportively. We do not disagree with any particular provision. However, we shall vote 'at present', because on the one hand we want to get a class into the broadcasting landscape, but on the other hand we want to demonstrate our disappointment at how difficult it is to prove that it is solely to blame the domestic political system. It is true that the creation and functioning of the PSE has been the subject of micro-group exploitation and a cause of severe parapolitical conflicts, creating the impression that in our country a ruthless war is taking place, how they conflict strong business interests, not to mention the quality of citizens' information. This is a wound of our democracy. Responsible citizens can only be up-to-date citizens. And in order for citizens to be informed responsibly, they have to get a class on the channels. Will this amendment succeed? With the vote of those who support it and with the tolerance of the Central Association, the responsibility accompanying the PSE proposals is now transferred to us in the Greek Parliament. We are jointly responsible for ensuring the quality of the information they deserve to the Greeks. This should oblige us to cooperate and not exchange characterisations and irony, as they have heard in this Chamber in view of this amendment. I am going to comment on the other amendments. In Amendment No 1321, which deals with the production of electricity on high-quality agricultural land using biomass and biogas, we will vote'residents', with anguish to see the development of this very important effort by always saying that we are ready to intervene by exercising parliamentary control, whenever we consider it useful. We shall not vote against the amendment by a general number of 1322, which regulates issues relating to workers in the management of the Metropolitan Park of Antonis Tritsis. We'll give it tolerance. We will vote here too, but I will inform you that we will soon ask you, Minister, to come and tell us the details, which is what the Tritsis Park is today and if things have improved. Then we will find out whether we have done well to give tolerance, which, according to the concept of the Central Association, always makes us co-responsible. In the Central Association we are fully aware of our responsibilities and of the courage to take them. With regard to the other two amendments, Amendment No 1324 and Amendment No 1326, one with its first article amends Article No 4280/2014 in order to extend until August 2018 the operation of campsites which do not fulfil the conditions of forest environmental and urban law, while the second article extends until 11 December of the coming year the deadlines for the adoption of objections to the ratification of forest maps and the other, Amendment No 1326 amends provisions of the relevant Presidential Decree 325 on the organisation and operation of the ESDP and attempts to solve problems of secondment in various ways. For these two amendments, the Central Association is positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u302	I will not speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u303	All right, Mr. Amyras. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mr President. I will respond only to issues that have been raised by the parliamentary representatives and by speeches. I will not clarify matters, I do not want to talk much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u305	Minister, may I ask you, how much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u306	Give me five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u307	All right, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u308	I want to start with what's a union. We need to get this straight. Obviously there is nothing wrong with the union and the representation of unions and labour rights. But trade unionism - I mentioned earlier - is to use arguments which do not correspond to reality, to create a impression, possibly plundering or shouting loudly or creating a theatricality in your arguments, without referring to the bill. That's what Mr. Screkas did, that's what I'm talking about, and, if he comes, I'll say it now. You said, for example, that three years were lost. I described that in the three years there has been a new national planning, because it was out of the directive, all regional plans with their VETs and strategic environmental studies, at least ten projects have already been integrated into public funding, ministerial decisions have been made on green points, and recycling has become the law. You don't say that for three years, when we only had fines and dumps in previous years. But, Mr. Kefaliannis, I wanted to be honest with my scientific knowledge, if you want, to tell you that you made a huge mistake. You said - and you must also look at it as a party, I say politically - that this bill refers to 20% of the waste. It's a big mistake. Directive 2008/1998/EU has made it clear that there is a hierarchy of priority waste management in reuse and recycling. The obligation of 50% recycling by sorting at source and recovery is a European context. We are not talking about 20% at all. We are talking about a percentage that, based on national planning, may also be 70% and that must be the objective of our society. If you retreat so much to the targets of recycling, you will eventually ratify that we do well and bury 80%. Note this great technical and political mistake, which you have made. You asked, however, whether we were doing anything about the evasion. We really need to respond. Look. The National Producer Register, which we have done, has had five hundred new producers' records that were not registered and that government did so before the obligation to register the tax documents that we are now doing so is lawful, even before the obligations of traffickers who cannot move if they are not in the register. With this government in the past year, we have five hundred subscriptions to the EMRP, not to mention the twenty-four thousand entries in the electronic waste register, which we now control waste streams, which has not happened in the past, because all waste streams are now recorded. Not to mention the 13% increase in recycling in 2016, agreeing that obviously the reports already approved on the board should be posted in public. Let me say one more thing. You accused us of not telling what the plastic bag is going on. I'll refer you to FEC. In other words, if you have not read the relevant FEC of today's bill, which came out in August, I cannot do the smart guy or tell you anything more. I can't say anything different. So I say to you that in Article 3a of the FEK, which came out for the FEH of the plastic bag this August, it says that all resources go to promote, free disposal and the premium for reused bags or storage, which may also be the dial that Mr Synthetakis said earlier. We expressly call it FEK published. Don't ask me who you're gonna be...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u309	How do you calculate the resources?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u310	Please, Mr. Kefaliannis, I have not interrupted you. You also asked in a theatrical way why the Ministry doesn't say what will become of a plastic bag. It's written in FEK. And obviously the budget is from 40 to 50 million, although we do not yet know how many citizens will be prevented from using the bag, because our aim is to be zero, Mr Kefaloyannis. Yours tell us who he is. We know what our target is. Recycling and the environment are our goal. Now from there, however, I honestly cannot understand who made an observation and you changed your position. If a Vice-President, a shadow president who is circulating in your offices - from the LAOS, if I am not mistaken - has taken your ears again, you have changed your position, it is not consistent with a party that wants to become a government that says it will be government after three years to change its position within a week in Parliament. You, however, discovered an amazing scenario, what you experienced in the bags on the streets and in the trash, to blame the government and to justify that this is why you are not voting for the recycling law. Will you tell us what position you're taking for recycling? For a hypothetical scenario, which is not based anywhere, because we are also solving the problem of Attica, I answered my position. You still recycle a script. Mr Bukouros told us that he disagrees with the terminology of an intermediary for your party. I'm sorry, but why has your party still not answered the involvement of Mr. Aigenakis, Secretary of the New Democracy, who may have worked as he was in a criminal service ring? Tell me why you haven't taken a seat yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u311	Are you guys busy with the loaded guns?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u312	Perhaps for the same reason that you did not take a position on the free financing of 'SIEMENS' to New Democracy and the PASOK, for the same reason. You seem to have a selective relationship with legality. That's what you're doing. One week a week next week. It doesn't matter. Impressions are being created and some of our canals are playing the news that we are interested in. Now, from there, Mr. Danellis was right. We're transferring responsibility to systems. Indeed, those who manage the public social resource of recycling must also be responsible for the return to the extent of their contracts. But there is no burden on the state budget, especially on the functioning of the EEAN and on the new establishment plan. On the contrary, we create criteria for filling posts, that is, from the register of directors, the posts will be paid and they will be paid on the basis of the criteria of the register of directors. Alas, someone said on what criteria a president or CEO will become. Of course, from there on, the EEW had to be strengthened in the section of the control mechanism and of the OTAs. Do you or do you not want to strengthen in these two areas? We only want to strengthen these two. The rest of the organogram remains almost the same. Now with regard to what Mr Theocharopoulos has put in. The Committee's scientific committee's point says that it could be considered that further clarification of the plastic bag issue could be resolved by a ministerial decision. There is no such issue, however, because the ministerial decision has already been published on the plastic bag and you know it. It is the one I mentioned earlier to Mr Kefaliannis. However, there are indicators for evaluation of the TENs, and these are their plans and the annual report, because you have referred to them. There will be an algorithm so that there is no subjection in the wording of the fine and that is our obligation. And I'd like to say here if there's a lot of CIA or not, because you've put it many times. Look, the existence of a ministerial decision, to appoint the members of the consultation committee provided for in the bill, is not a CSM, which - if you like - refers to a ministerial decision something important. As well as the establishment of the EEAN Board when they send representatives to the bodies. They are completely practical ministerial decisions that do not in any way suspend the operation of recycling. Like the definition of remuneration, for example, of the board of directors of the EEAN. No issues, that is, which affect the bill and recycling or, if you like, the application of management standards to the Greek Standardisation Organisation. These are ministerial decisions. Let us not laugh, ladies and gentlemen, no essential issue of recycling is referred to CSR. With regard to the Presidential Decree, it is in the odds that we choose to change organisational structure and organisation of organs in the EEAN. We are therefore sending it to the President of the Republic as we owe it and we do not decide by ministerial decision. Therefore, it is not suspended, it is not delayed at all - if you like - the recycling by ministerial decisions or by the dubiousness of a bill, as someone has tabled. But there is another perspective, Mr Theocharopoulos - and I would like to say it - in the management of waste. The section you requested is the National Management Plan and the Ministerial Council Act 2015. That is where the big changes are, which are much ahead of the European strategy, as if we had to put the bar higher. This is the change that previous governments have not dared to make. And from that point on, I would like to agree that the critical, Mr Xydakis, is the issue of organic and our organic strategy. We have put compulsory recycling in the public spaces and in the ports, which you have also proposed, and of course, it is very important that the national plan for the management of hazardous waste - if I am not mistaken, you mentioned it, because the residue of sands and the dangers that you have seen - are reduced - on the substance of five hundred thousand tonnes of internal waste has our country - is one of the parts of the fine that our country pays to the European Commission and it is where the private sector must take the initiatives for their risk management units. We have given room until the end of the year to the undertakings that produce dangerous. They cannot take responsibility for the producer, because we will no longer do the wrong eyes, as was the case in the previous years, and they also burdened entrepreneurship. There are indeed controls on the systems, because you have asked about it. There have already been previous checks which have led to a proposal to shut down the system. We already have two checks. However, we have already ordered controls on all other systems, because I would also like us to be consistent with the criticism that is made of us for the best results. However, I would like to say to Mr Colleagues that there is no PPP issue in Thebes. I don't know where you heard from, but you probably had the wrong information. As well as the fact that this government has banned funding from the RDF recycling resource, so it is not financed from recycling. We separated it. Also, in terms of biomass and bioliquids - to understand something, because you probably did not understand - we reduced the exceptions that the legislation had so far. We didn't allow. We're limiting exceptions. In other words, there were windows to be located anywhere without permission and without control by the public, bioliquid and biomass units. Your own Member has asked me to make this intervention for Ioannina. So it's for your own benefit too. I want you to investigate it. We therefore limit the possibility of agricultural land being altered to a craft or energy land or to a reception area, because it must only correspond to local units. And check it out, please, because recently the Ministry of the Environment on his visit and in Western Greece committed itself to limiting this without rules and without control the placement of bioliquid units throughout Greece, which was left by previous governments. We are therefore limiting exceptions, Mr Syntagakis, and you have asked for it and your colleague from Atalo-Carnania. I would also like to say that this bill is not a monopolistic one. To allow'recycle' at the source of Patras a COMMUNICATION with a worker properly recycling is not a monopolistic policy. Having it - I have repeated - a unit of two workers who, for example, separate Thessaloniki plastics and give it to industry is not a monopoly. To have three chemical engineers in the industrial region of Heraklion is not monopolistic. Being four cow farmers in Coronea of Thessaloniki and having their manure and doing energy is not monopolistic. Do you think they're monopolistic? You have probably made a big mistake in your political view and we invite you to find a solution for the benefit of work and of small and medium-sized activity. Finally, I think I have answered what I at least have been able to note, clarifying that, for us, the issue is to find a common road to recycling. But you will allow me to say something that the Democratic Reconciliation expects and Mr Pappa's amendment. There are two issues which have been raised in your view. One is the "subjective" and the other is the guarantee of participation. I simply want to tell you that from some research we have done and with the evidence that my colleague, Minister, has given me, there are two controls on 'underground' in the existing legislation. One is as far as the share capital is concerned because it is conditional on participation in the tender. This is provided for in Article 6 of the EC Treaty. 4339. The second is that, following the declaration by a successful tenderer to cover the amount of the tender, Article 13 applies for the second time the ‘subject to’, as provided for in the legislation, because you cannot foresee a hypothetical ‘substantially’ on a general question. One is for equity, and the second is for the successful tenderer's offer. Therefore, the issue of 'outside' is twice covered. That is the proposal from the PSE, after all. Finally, as far as the guarantee is concerned, the law authorizes the notice to set the conditions for participation, thus guaranteeing participation. In Article 11, therefore, they allow the PSE to put the guarantee of participation in the conditions of the declaration and of the competition. This is also provided for in the law and is provided for in Article 11 of Law No.4339. Therefore, both the issues you have asked for, because we have also asked the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has investigated the relevant Ministry that it is responding to the guidelines already set by law and is not in any way limited to the question of the broad acceptance of the amendment we have put today. Finally, I close with the forest maps. Mr President, forgive me, but there is a post that can mislead the world. There is no extension with today's amendment to the posting of forest maps, which ended on 25 September, and, in my opinion, the Democratic Consortium was then requested. Because you asked me to answer why we refused this amendment, I did so in the construction bill. I'll say it again today. Let me give you an example. You ask, for example, that there be an extension of forest maps for something that has been closed, that is, on 25 September. You understand that there can be no extension for something that has been stopped. Secondly, if we do so, there will be no ratification of forest maps and there will be no start of the process of issuing construction permits, confirmation of the designer's topographics, so that some forests do not go. The development process won't break. Thirdly, you ask why the municipalities have not sent evidence. You are writing it in your amendment. I already announced that the hundred and twenty municipalities belonging to the first forest maps sent evidence. So, having been given eight and a half months, with personal information to all farmers with sms since June, with eight and a half months of prolongation of the post, should an extension be given for something that delays growth? What are we giving today? We don't extend to posting forest maps because it was written on a site and some may be misled. We are giving an extension of one month to the services to evaluate and examine applications so that the partial penalty that will be made is complete. Because by the end of the year, we want our country to have for the first time 35% of its area ratified on a map, but obviously against the objections that want to be examined for six months. Therefore, the one month that we are giving today is only about examining the obvious errors, the mistakes of the administration and the redemption applications made for farmers, in order to ensure their subsidies, which we have created as an institutional framework. This will enable all procedures within the agencies to be completed by the end of December. The citizen can no longer raise objections to the already posted areas. It's closed 25 September. We've already started this week. New areas have been raised, new maps are beginning to be examined. It is now our interest in the new areas. So there was no feasibility or any municipality wanted it. There was no reason for that amendment that you tabled, apart from the fact that it expired from 25 September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u314	Mr President, I would like to speak to the Minister as a parliamentary representative. I haven't taken my dentistry anyway. I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u315	We have finished and we are entering the vote. In any case, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u316	I was very careful in my location. When I spoke to you about 20%, Minister, I mentioned that packaging materials - in fact, I used information from your Ministry - mainly seven hundred and fifty thousand tonnes of waste totalled 5.7 million tonnes. That's why I said the bill actually only concerns 20%. I have not mentioned the organic or fermentable fraction at all. I have, of course, also asked you a number of questions, which, of course, have not been answered. For example, for your position in the waste mechanical and biological plants or in the waste-use plants. Of course, I have not received any response to the waste management plan in Attica, which, as we all know in this Chamber, relates to 50% of the waste. No reply, of course, I did not receive from you about the complaints that exist in the EIA from 2012-2013 and subsequent years, where, unfortunately, the proceedings are being delayed. As I said before, it is not about the staffing or subscribing of this body, but about the poor functioning of this body. Also, as far as the VET is concerned, which refers to how you will manage as a ministry the money that will come from the plastic bags, unfortunately, your answer confirms my worst fears that unfortunately, there is no plan. You have confirmed to me that it may be between 40-50 million, but unfortunately there is no planning. Invoking the FEK on its own does not indicate that there is any design. And I close with a phrase. You have been tempted, Minister, and I am sorry that you have done so, and you have referred to matters which are irrelevant to the bill, which at least I personally, but I think none of the party has touched on. You referred to the publications of a Sunday newspaper. Unfortunately, until first we knew that Mr Vaxevanis appeared as, almost, a spokesman for SYRIZA. Today we have seen that SYRIZA appears to be a spokesman for Mr Vaxebane.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u318	Although, obviously, I cannot change your mind, and I think I have answered all the issues you have raised, and obviously, because the rest of the issues have been raised by the Government representative, Mr. Janakopoulos, about the involvement of Mr. Augnakis, but you still did not take a position now, because you did not dare take a position, the best thing would be, since you accused us of being a spokesman for Mr. Vaxvanis, to tell us what Mr. Aygeakis has done and what he has done. You have not taken a position on this, nor on SIEMENS. Good. So I'm gonna leave this for Friday. However, because I have to respond to the amendments - which is why I have taken the floor, Mr President - I would like to say that one amendment, which concerns provincial press issues, is the responsibility of Mr Pappas, and I cannot accept it. If he wants the Communist Party to come back to another process. He said himself about a private conversation he had with the Minister. I would like to refer to the amendment by Mr Lazaridis on animal and pet accommodation issues or stray animals. There is another amendment. I have asked for this proposal to come to a next bill that will be for the NATURA regions. There I would ask you to look at your point, because it concerns the Directorate-General for Urban Planning and other issues that do not fall within my competence. So I pledge that we will look at your own proposal because it is an important issue that can solve issues of pet accommodation. Let's see this together with the stray-ass area. It is an arrangement that needs to be made, but to look at it on the basis of the opinion of the agency. I don't have time today to get the right process. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u319	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy is hereby concluded: "Amendment to Law 2939/2001 on the alternative management of packaging and other products, adaptation to Directive 2015/720/EU, regulation of issues of the Hellenic Recycling Agency and other provisions". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u321	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u323	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u324	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u327	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u328	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Amendment of Law 2939/2001 on the alternative management of packaging and other products, adaptation to Directive 2015/720/EU, regulation of issues of the Hellenic Recycling Agency and other provisions’, was accepted in principle by a majority. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Can Rule 1, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u332	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u333	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u335	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u336	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u337	Article 1 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u341	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u342	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u344	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u346	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u347	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u349	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u350	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u351	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u352	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u353	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u355	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u357	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u358	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u359	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u360	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u361	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u362	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u363	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u364	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u365	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u366	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u368	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u369	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u371	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u373	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u377	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u378	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u380	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u381	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u382	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u384	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u386	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u387	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u389	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u391	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u393	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u395	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u396	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u397	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u398	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u399	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u400	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u401	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u402	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u403	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u404	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u405	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u406	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u407	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u408	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u409	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u410	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u411	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u413	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u414	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u415	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u416	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u418	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u419	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u420	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u421	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u422	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u423	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u424	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u425	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u427	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u428	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u429	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u431	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u432	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u433	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u434	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u435	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u436	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u437	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u438	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u440	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u441	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u442	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u443	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u444	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u445	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u446	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u447	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u449	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u450	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u451	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u452	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u453	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u454	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u455	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u456	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u458	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u459	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u460	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u461	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u462	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u463	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u464	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u465	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u467	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u468	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u469	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u472	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u473	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u474	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u476	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u477	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u478	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u480	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u481	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u482	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u483	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u484	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u485	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u486	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u487	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u488	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u489	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u490	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u491	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u492	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u494	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u495	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u496	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u497	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u498	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u499	Article 19 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 20 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u500	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u501	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u503	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u504	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u505	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u506	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u507	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u508	Article 20 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u509	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u510	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u511	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u512	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u513	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u514	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u515	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u516	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u517	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u518	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u519	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u521	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u522	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u523	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u524	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u525	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u526	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u527	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u528	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u530	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u531	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u532	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u533	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u534	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u535	Article 23 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u536	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u537	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u539	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u540	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u541	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u542	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u544	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u545	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u546	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u547	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u548	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u549	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u550	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u551	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u553	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1321 and a specialist of 156 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u554	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u557	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u558	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u559	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u560	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u561	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u562	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1321 and a special 156 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1322 and a special number of 157 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u563	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u564	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u565	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u566	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u567	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u568	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u569	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u570	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u571	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1322 and a special157 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does this House accept the amendment with a general number of 1323 and a specialist of 158 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u572	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u573	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u574	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u575	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u576	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u577	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u578	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u579	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u580	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1323 and a special 158 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1324 and a special number of 159?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u581	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u582	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u583	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u584	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u585	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u586	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u587	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u588	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u589	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1324 and a special 159 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same articles. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1326 and a special number of 161?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u590	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u591	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u592	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u593	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u594	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u595	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u596	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u597	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u598	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1326 and a special number of 161 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u599	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u600	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u601	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u602	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u603	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u604	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u605	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u606	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u607	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Amendment of Law 2939/2001 on the alternative management of packaging and other products, adaptation to Directive 2015/720/EU, the regulation of issues of the Hellenic Recycling Agency and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and on articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u608	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u609	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u610	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u611	Golden Dawn is absent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u612	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u614	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u615	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u616	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: ‘Amendment to Law 2939/2001 on the alternative management of packaging and other products, the adaptation to Directive 2015/720/EU, the regulation of issues of the Hellenic Recycling Agency and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u617	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u618	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-11-01-S1-commons.u619	With the consent of the House at 18.00 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 2 November 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
