ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We all wish our Prime Minister a lot for years! I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the room "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, forty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the 4th high school of Heraklion Crete. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the No 595/25/23-2017 topical question by the President of the Group of the European Parliament, Mr Leventis, to the Prime Minister, on 'Health problems'. The Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, will answer the above-mentioned question in accordance with Rule 129(2) and (3) and Rule 132(1) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The President of the Centro Parliamentary Group has the floor for two minutes in order to develop his timely question. Now the time will not be two minutes, but it will not be two hours - I mean for the whole process - because then the topical question is followed by the debate. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, President of Parliament. I said it completely backwards, but it's okay. In the parliament of supreme rulers, you know, for me, and the Prime Minister will not misunderstand that, because he is also a Member of Parliament. It has led me within a month to make a second use of the Rules of Procedure of this House the need to be informed by the Prime Minister on certain things. Of course, we are also concerned about what is happening in the economy with the negotiation. We are very concerned as long as it does not end and while there are tens of thousands of them, and in the matter of health the world is a resurrection. When people arrive in my office and tell me to put in an emergency, what can I say? Does it take an instrument in 2017 to get into intensive training? Aren't there enough seats, beds? What's going on? Are there positions and leave them on purpose empty, so that friends can serve? It's a big deal. Are the posts sufficient, or does each commander do whatever he wants and leave space to do his political career? About the drugs: we've reduced them. But are there drugs on the list that patients need? Did we do any damage? Are we absolutely sure there was a proper evaluation on the drug list? Doctors are afraid to prescribe expensive medicines, while patients need them. This is also very important. It is a danger that overlaps society. Another major issue on which the Prime Minister is also invited to answer us, and it is important, is that there are institutions that they owe the IKA. For example, the Volos Home Foundation owes the IKA some money, but the Foundation also owes the EEAY and does not give them insurance information so that they can collect money. Basically, we close these institutions. Also, there are private hospitals, where there are large debts of insurance funds and because people have taken bank loans, they are asking for a set-aside. In other words, they ask a committee to see what we owe you, what it owes you, because this man may not owe himself and may appear artificially in debt, because the state is insolvent and does not pay him because he has become an internal payment stop. Should we turn them all off? And they continue and offer work, swells the black hole for themselves and are at risk of seizures. I know the cures to which the government's insurance institutions have a great deal of debt, and the debts of these hospitals to the banks are much smaller, but they are at risk, with confiscation, of shutting down. There's no one to address. They sent a letter to Mr. Stournara. They didn't get an answer. They sent to ministers. They didn't get an answer. And it's not one and two. They are hundreds of them, who are in bankruptcy, bankruptcy because of the insolvency or inability of the state to pay them the due. There's that, too. The "Volos Farm" Foundation, however, is desperate, because it cannot obtain insurance information. I am tabling the relevant document on the Minutes. [[Mr Vassilis Leventis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Zakynthos Hospital, Prime Minister, is the only hospital that the city has and for three and a half months has no surgery. It's your day of celebration and I'm saying unpleasant things. Excuse me. There was an incident of a fatal infection, and since then all the patients of an entire island - it is also a constituency of Zakynthos - go either to Patras or Athens. There's no surgery in Zakynthos. I would also ask that this be included in the Minutes, because it is an important shortage. [[Mr Vassilis Leventis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The therapists and the physico-therapists come to my office constantly and ask me for a regulation, because the Minister has placed them under another regime. While they were first paid by customers and the customers were going to take them from EOPYY, from EOPYY, now they said, "No, you will offer the services to customers, you will gather the evidence and you will be paid." So people are afraid that payment will be delayed and in despair. This change may be intended to reduce vulnerabilities, but such a change does not take place within a day because a minister decides. Let's explain. That is to say, from a system of austerity, which was indeed at risk of taking decisions, to go from one moment to another in a system which is particularly at risk for children of special needs and special situations to remain without reason, without physical treatment, these are dangerous things. He needed consultation. The big changes are not because a minister decides on this, with a bill. The major changes take place with a debate with society. That is the success of the major changes. And what changes have been made by Parliament - some changes have been made - because there has been agreement, not because the Minister has seen a dream and an amendment has been passed. I was sent a letter, Prime Minister, former MP Ioannis Varvitsiotis, father of the current MP in the New Democracy, who accuses all of us of going through last minute amendments irrelevant to the draft law to be discussed. And there's an article in the newspaper "Kathemerini", "Drumbling all the time". Of course, my question is this: Mr Varvitsiotis, who has had the upper hand in the governments of the New Democracy, why has he not gone through such an article in Parliament's Rules of Procedure that you cannot introduce an unrelated bill of law? Why did he leave it now to ask for that? Mr. Varvitsiotis overrides that. However, with the amendments this Chamber has exceeded every tolerance, it is true. We cannot, under the Rules of Procedure of this House, totally prohibit the introduction of amendments, because some amendments may be necessary and Mr Varvitsiotis recommends that the amendment be invalid. We cannot do such a thing, that is, get to an extreme point. But he has a point in what he says, namely, that the Chamber has exceeded tolerance. A bill cannot come and come in double-size pages A4. It is devalued by the Chamber and by the Members themselves of the ruling party, who take responsibility for voting on the bills more than all the rest of us. I'll ask you something, Prime Minister. You will, of course, answer all of these issues, and in particular the issues I mentioned. When a government owes it to him, and he owes him to agencies, why shut it down? It is an issue that the government needs to find a committee to control humans, to control the company and, accordingly, to do so. I think that's right, not to be in danger of confiscation. Then you did some councils at the last minute, the TOMY. You did it last minute, night you brought them right before the bill was closed with votes. These aren't nice things. I think that the bills should be taken seriously, that the opinions of the other wings of the Chamber are heard and that is not the way in which the dictator is elected. This is my place. And because the Prime Minister is new, but also the Chief of Officerial Response is young, these two people could improve a bit of morale in this Chamber. Mr. Stathakis presented - I heard him one day on the radio - who for one who did this - for one who did this, a Nika, to some public company, said: "Nothing has happened. The Governing Council decided to promote it and did not get EUR 100,000, it took EUR 27,000." Why didn't you intervene, Mr. Tsipras? The EUR 27,000 is a sum that can be donated to each other? And how Mr. Stathakis talks like that, when pensions are cut, wages are cut. You should have brought him back to class, no matter how valuable he is. At that time he spoke indifferently about human pain. It hurts politics the way he acted. I would ask you to correct such misplaced movements of Ministers, because you, Mr. Tsipras, if you leave, will suffer the mistakes of all your partners on your back. I said the same thing yesterday at a meal. I said I've made a lot of mistakes, and I'll pay for these mistakes. The politician must be willing to take his mistakes and assume his responsibilities. I do not often hear in politics saying 'insecure' because they are not brave. So Mr Stathakis' behaviour at that time for the 27,000 euros, while others eat at metropolitans, is not a nice thing. He had to not answer at all. In the meantime, why don't you interfere with public corporations, so that things can't be done. He said Mr. Stathakis at the end that he was a law of the New Democracy. But you're here to fix some things in the New Democracy. You cannot use as an alibi that the law was made by the New Democracy. And another topic: What pay does some people get? Stournaras, what's his salary? I heard him the other day at a meeting with pharmaceutical workers, in an hour's time, trying to convince us that we must immediately go to sign, otherwise it will be a disaster. What pay does that man get? So, can they take whatever they want? Sounds like numbers. I want to know yours, the governors of PPC, the Bank of Greece, the National Bank, where the government has a say, what wages they get. Because they sound like terrible wages! I would also like to raise another point. Since there are very large wages in the private sector too, we should do this: the EUR 4 000 for every employee to deduct from tax, but the rest should not be deducted. Does he want a private company to pay 30 thousand euros? Give it. From the EUR 30 000, the sum of EUR 4 000 will be deducted from its costs. The rest of her giving it like that, not getting tax. With the high wages the state loses taxes. Isn't that right? If they take 30 thousand euros to a company, this company is over. When will she pay taxes? Never. So put a stop to what the governing agencies, the bank governors, are getting, because there are 20 thousand euros, 30 thousand euros, 17 thousand euros. This is an insult to the Greek Parliament too. SYRIZA is a party that tried to do some things. But he has the hooks of a left party, at work, at work, at work. For example, you know what damage trade unions have done in Greece with their attitude. Besides, most of them then become MPs. I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and also for the excellent work he has done. That's how the economy stays back. With regard to New Democracy, while it is a party that is supposed to be in favour of the free economy, why has Samaras failed to bring a single investment, too? Because they're more entangled with interests. We are talking about the two parties, namely, who have had the first word in Greece in recent years. And SYRIZA is the successor of PASOK, I don't see you as a new party, to tell the truth, because you got 3% to 4% while the Centro Association gets and you went to 35%. This cannot be done without a number of voters and officials moving. MPs and voters have moved. To tell the truth, because many times in the channels you say you're a new party. Don't get too much of that because it's not true. We know each other in this Chamber. The right is more entangled with interests, and that makes her not to offer and be suspicious in the business world, because she has her own businesspeople that it promotes, and you have the tendency to be afraid to say something, to say something else. So you keep, wheel the economy at a time when the economy would like gas to move forward. You both do damage. I want you to know why the Centroon Association doesn't vote. I want to tell you. I'm not voting for bills. Some bills may be fine. Do you know why I don't vote for them? Because I sent a letter on 20 September 2015 to Mr Tsipras and told him the nine points. In other words: MEPs of three hundred to become two hundred. The Congressman's wage from 7,000 euros to 3,500 euros. I told him we'd locate the slow payroll in the public eye. Because if there is a slow payroll in the public, as I count, of 20% to 25%, imagine what it would mean to have 25% less wages. Do you know what the amount is for the payment of salaries to the municipalities, to the CEC and to the public? It's monstrous. I said that the pensions would merge them all into one - because there are three hundred thousand triple, one million two thousand double - with a ceiling of 1,500 euros. I also said about the pensions of the rich, which in advanced Western states have been cut out in the interests of the public interest to be subsidised, such as single-parent mothers, multiples, unemployed and all the other categories that are essentially unfounded today. So I sent that, and I said first, you house your house and then you put a hand on loan to get memos if the money isn't enough. And if they break off bonds and you're in danger of having a credit event, then go out and borrow. But first you house your house. I was ignored by George Papandreou and Samaras and Mr. Tsipras. They go with traditional policy to cut wages and pensions and impose taxes. I can't vote for anything like that. If I vote, I fail my philosophy of the household and I reward your policy. What policy is that? It is the policy of the type: cover all pathogens under the carpet and apply the hand for borrowers. That doesn't lead anywhere. The country will never come out of the memorials, no matter how much effort they are paid, when you are constantly borrowing and when they are invested.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Leventis, hurry up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u4	I will speed up, Madam President. It sounds like you're going to reduce the Members' wages by 1,000 euros. Instead of doing this, I think that a reduction in the number of Members is a more honest thing. The Netherlands has 18 million people and has a hundred fifty seats. What's going on here? Germany has 80 million people and has six hundred thirty seats. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, You know, I love everyone in this Chamber. If I could now sign up for all of us to be again, I would do so, although it is the people's case. But if we really want something better - because with the grand five-dollar, we need to reduce the number of Members. I believe that the parliamentary work will also be more productive and that the people will be much more careful where it puts the cross - as long as the number of seats are reduced, the voter will be careful - and 33%, one third, a reduction in expenditure. We have something important. Don't think I'm saying it in some mood against someone. But that would mean a real reduction in costs. I am therefore appealing to the Prime Minister, before bringing in a bill that reduces a thousand to impress and tell the world 'let us, as a political world', to look at reducing the number of Members. The world has heard on television that it is 18 million Dutch and a hundred fifty seats. Don't think he didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u5	And seventy-five senators.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u6	Okay. You want Senators too? Okay. In any case, I will say a couple of words on the negotiation, Mr Tsipras, because it is good to answer. In order for there to be health, there must also be an economy. I don't get it. Mr Skourletis and various partners say of an increased number of Members in the votes. Do they act on their own, or do they have your consent? Is what I'm saying important, because if they have your consent, what does that mean? That within you have not matured the view that negotiation can be a success. I will not tell you what the New Democracy says, 'Sign it quickly', but it does not vote. The people hear that. The New Democracy and the PASOK indicate: "Get it fast, sign it all," but the gentlemen are not voting, while until August of '15 they voted it all and 3.5% of the surplus for 2018. I won't tell you that. I said that the Centro Association is an opposing philosophy. First you house your house and then you go loan, but you did exactly the same. One question: If you come to power, won't you sign? Are you going to change them? [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Yeah, all right. Listen: Since 2009, George Papandreou said "there are money", Antonis Samaras said about "Zapipea" and Tsipras was tearing up the memoirs. This is the situation, but listening to the people, to the voters of the New Democracy "vote quickly, while we are losing"...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Leventis, you have a second. Don't run out of it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u8	"As long as we are destroyed," says the New Democracy, so "vote everything", don't you? 'But we' - it says - 'we will not vote', i.e. all the betrayal that SYRIZA has made - the New Democracy is ready to do. Then they say another thing: 'if we come' - it says - 'because the state keeps up, we will implement them'. Then after you're going to apply them, how are you going to change them? Or are strangers stupid to admit to changing them or did you go to Merkel and make a deal? Listen: Foreigners now, because they have seen that we have not been making reforms for seven years, they have decided to be serious. One last word on labour: Mr. Tsipras, because you need privatisation, take away from your mind whether you should restore collective agreements. I know that as a party you would love to be consistent with your audience and voters. Remove it from your mind to facilitate the negotiation. As far as I am concerned, there is no way that foreigners should go back to work, because they consider them to be a very important issue for investment. Don't put that term in. Retreat. If you retreat to work, I tell you that the negotiation in this case is close. If you stay adamant, we may soon have elections, because foreigners, as far as I know, will not retreat at all to work, because they think that the solution to the problem lies in investment. So, at the time of the investments, there is a ruling party that is subject to ill trade unionists, that is not what the Europeans will accept, nor will they accept what Ahchioglu is trying to do, that is to say, to move it forward. This will not be accepted either, because the need for investment cannot go any further. The need to invest is a direct request that, as long as it is delayed, we shoot our belly, our stomach. Thank you and we're waiting for your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u9	Thank you. Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras has the floor for his prototype. Prime Minister, I'll put you 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u10	Madam President, I shall, at least, try to stay on the subject of the topical question. Not that all the things that have been put forward are not interesting and important. Perhaps, if time is found in dentistry, say some things about them too. I will remain on this subject because I believe that Mr Leventis's timely question is an important opportunity to say some important things about a sector which concerns each Greek family, which is the health sector. It is an area that has been diagnosed, particularly in the years of the crisis that we have had a terrible decline in the quality and level of services, especially in the field of public health. I therefore think it is very important that this debate should go ahead in depth so that it can see what is actually happening in the health sector. I was saying before that the years of the crisis suffered a terrible attack. And I do refer to the five-year 2010-2014, where while the memorandum was the public health expenditure was to be 6% of the Gross Domestic Product - and while the public expenditure you know that in 2009 before the crisis was 6.8%, that is, the memoranda itself predicted a reduction of 0.8% - we received public expenditure at the beginning of 2015 at 4.7% of the Gross Domestic Product. Of course, it is not surprising that it was even lower than the memorials itself when I would remind you that there was a controversy about who would take the glory of'reforms': our lenders, Mr Tomsen, or the ministers who went through the health sector. I say'reforms', because cutting costs - and even ruthless expenditure - are not reforms. What did we do when we received? There is no doubt that we have received in a context that you all know was a framework of financial suffocation. Nevertheless - and I think this was a small miracle - we went up in 2015 - remember the very difficult year - state funding to 5.1% of GDP. For the first time, we increased it after the crisis. While the market threshold in public hospitals in 2015 was budgeted by the Samara government to a EUR 1 billion 388 million, we finally reached EUR 1 billion 556 million, that is, almost EUR 200 million more and I repeat the difficult year of 2015. And we increased spending even more than EUR 200 million in 2016. I must also tell you that, despite the pressing budgetary situation, we have managed these two years to tackle the debts in public hospitals. In December 2014, public hospitals had a deficit of EUR 936 million. Today they have stopped creating new debts. The old debts, created in the days of the previous government, are normally repaid in December 2016, our hospitals had no deficit but a surplus of EUR 36 million. In short, we received bankrupt hospitals and managed to bring them into a state of economic sustainability and even without any new cuts, but with increased spending. The question is: how did that happen? We're neither miraclemakers nor magicians nor squared in any circle. There's an explanation for how that happened. This was done by taking careful and persistent saving policy where, as you know, for decades, a large party has been held, in supplies, spending and overpricing. This is how we achieved another great achievement - in my view - and especially if we consider it to be a success in the time of the crisis, of the Memorandum of Disciplinary discipline. We have managed to incorporate 2.5 million uninsured fellow citizens into the National Health System, which was the most important or, if you like, one of the most important measures in the so-called parallel programme, which some have smuggled, questioned and considered is not there. And yet that, today, is a reality. There is not a single citizen, regardless of whether he is insured or not, who is deprived of access to public hospitals and does not leave them with buyourdi, as was the case before. Of these citizens - 2.5 million - about 1/3 also has zero participation in the medicines it needs. And it is pointless to say that this self-insured energy was incomprehensible before 2015, but it was not only incomprehensible during the period of the memorials, it was incomprehensible before the memorials, when the insurers, of course, were much less and could be an absolutely reasonable intervention. I am referring to the years in which money in health has flowed abundantly, but unfortunately it has flowed into the pockets of some scientists. You can understand, ladies and gentlemen, that the issue of the proper functioning of hospitals, first of all, is related to the adequacy of hospital staff. So I have to tell you that we have received a system of scary gaps. In the Greek public hospitals no intake had been made since 2010 and for the whole of 2014. For five years, we've only had redundancies. Because for some it is very easy to baptize cuts and, of course, when they start cutting them to start with hospital staff. Since we took over to date, six thousand fifty-six recruits have already been made, one/3 of which is two thousand two hundred are permanent staff. Another three thousand six hundred, half of whom are permanent, have been chosen and served at the next time. There are already another thousand single seventy-four seats, of which the thousand seven hundred nine will be permanent and the next three thousand more jobs will be opened, two thousand three hundred fifty and three thousand workers will be permanent for local health units. They are doctors, nurses, EKA rescuers and other personnel. In total, therefore, at a time when the country's budgets, as we all know, are moving in extremely narrow contexts, over six thousand staff have been covered and are scheduled to be filled in the near future with another 12 000 jobs, eight thousand of which will be permanent staff. The figures speak for themselves, and I am sure that in very short time these figures will not just be numbers, but will be able to understand them by every Greek citizen, every citizen in a public hospital. I do not claim that there will be a paradise for hospitals, but it will be quite clear to the citizen who was going to be hospitalized and who was in chambers of twenty and thirty with a nurse. Now he'll see nurses and nurses. He'll find out in his reality, in his everyday life. Let's go down to comparisons. Mr President, Mr Leventis, you referred to the question of intensive care units. The number of beds that we received in 2015 at the ICU was four hundred thirty-seven. You know, the largest number of beds in intensive treatment units that ever worked in our country was during the Olympic Games and were five hundred fourteen. You know, how many beds do we have today in the IFs that operate? It's five hundred sixty-eight. Not only more than we have received, but more than we have ever had in operation in the National Health System during the crisis. Do you know what programming is until June? That figure will reach six hundred seventy. What exactly do you want to compare? Let's talk with evidence, talk with numbers. Not with communal lanterns. Of course, you won't hear that in the news releases. There you will see videos made by various carcendaurs who are cozy on the health system, which have nothing to do with the workers, because the workers see them and support these efforts. And you know what? What bothers me most is not to be criticised, because I repeat there are still problems in health, what bothers me as a citizen is that those who are currently criticising, for five years who have been sinking the ESS, had not said a word, while they were the first to say. Of course, the record is that health was fine, but now that we're here, SYRIZA has blown off the health system. It is the famous: "the thief cries to be afraid of the housekeeper." However, let's go further: on the EAW. Already ninety EMCDDA ambulances have been delivered to the regions of the country, and the next time a new competition is opened for another hundred twenty ambulances. Seventeen small ambulances and a mobile unit will have been given to our islands shortly. We gave our islands for six months 50 rescuers to balance the burden from the refugee crisis and we opened the ACB Aerospace Base in Syros. It was requested for years by the residents of the Cyclades and today from this basis that more than twenty-five urgent incidents can be carried each month, reducing transport time by thirty-five minutes and thus saving lives. I also think it is necessary to focus myself on a practice which is self-evident, but which the political system has not succeeded for for forty years or wanted to adopt, in a self-evident manner. I'm talking about the electronic surgery list. For you said, Mr Leventis, and for the units, which I have explained to you that they have more beds than ever, but that there is a prioritisation of the incident. The list of scheduled surgery of each hospital will necessarily be posted on its website, of course without the names of the patients being made public. Thus, the time series of operations will be determined on the basis of the urgency of each case and on the basis of specific objective criteria, so that all patients are treated fairly and equally, on the basis of the needs of their treatment, and not only on the basis of whether they have any acquaintance with the management of the hospital or the political system. It is a self-evident intervention and we are moving on. At the same time, we are setting up the Patent Protection Offices. Each patient may be informed of his or her rights and procedures and may file complaints in order to interfere with the office in the competent services of the hospital. Ladies and gentlemen, you will rightly be asking yourself and the people who are listening to us because it has taken so many years to do this. I would like to tell you that we obviously won't stop here. We have a plan for major reform steps, but these necessary reforms have already come forward. The next major steps, let me say, will be in the field of medicine, where all citizens will have access to quality, safe, effective medicines without heavy burdens and, above all, it will be accompanied by the necessary rationalisation of the pharmaceutical expenditure. At the same time a major reform step in my view is the establishment of a transparent system for the supplies of hospitals. You realise that we are talking about areas where, as we hear and hear more and more recently, in previous years, it had become an unprecedented 'part of' to the detriment of the public interest. But I would particularly like to refer to the perhaps more important than all the reform initiatives that we have taken. This concerns primary health care, which completely changes in our view the image of the National Health System. Our aim is to make up one unit for every ten thousand inhabitants. Primary care units will operate with extended hours and stable staff, and citizens of general doctors, pathologists and pediatricians, as well as nurses and social workers will be able to find them. Each unit will monitor the health history of the people in this region as a whole, not only will it organise the treatment but also the prevention and, of course, its operation will also have a beneficial effect: it will significantly dismantle the large hospitals so that they focus on serious incidents and the treatment and provision of health services to citizens are even more effective. The planning predicts that by June we will have opened fifty primary health care units in urban areas in the country. The aim is until the end of the year another two hundred thirty nine. Thus, three million citizens in the urban centres will have been covered by the end of 2017. This is a truly large section, a large section which is taking place during the crisis period. You know, this large section is not a partial intervention, but a major change in the model, a change in the model of the health system, is a huge and real rationalisation, modernisation and upgrading of the health system. So, this great intersection, these primary health units are here in the House the Chief of Health of Officers, Mr. Economou, in his passion and in his exile, said that the New Democracy would tear them out one by one. Why? Because, he says, they're soviet residues and rock fields.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u11	He's right-wing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u12	I don't know if he's far-right, I guess they have other people's privileges, but we stayed speechless. We're speechless! We don't know if it's the power deprivation syndrome. We don't know if it's the fact that man is irrelevant or whether the motive is passionate. You know, if the motive is the worst possible, because Mr Economou said other things, revealing with excellent naivety - I would say - the political programme of the New Democracy and of Mr Mitsotakis himself. He said that if the New Democracy comes back to the government again, it will immediately dismiss the hospital cleaning and storage staff, which is currently working under contracts of indefinite duration, and I remind you, he was working with the famous contractors. It is a system that, you know very well, how much it was taking advantage of the workers. It was a commitment we made to finish with the contractors in hospitals. Our aim is to end for another reason: not only to defend employment rights, but because the contractors' system imposed 20% more on the public fund by offering the same services, and I would say worse on the basis of what the workers currently offering hospitals with recruitment and contracts of indefinite duration, to which we have made progress. However, Mr Mitsotakis' party has revealed to us that these people will fire them in order to restore the contractors. He's still revealing he's going to fire-- he's gonna put X, like he said -- and hospital administrations. Be careful, a little here, because I want us to understand that. Which administrations, which people? Not those appointed by the system '4-2-1' - do you remember that? - but those who are in place following serious and improper evaluation procedures that have been carried out for the first time under the continuous monitoring and the institutions and the consultation - for the first time in Greece - a process involving both active governors and candidates. That is why it took six and eight months for this procedure to be done and for it to be completed. We did not put party adorables there, as the previous governments did. We have placed people who have quality and the criteria that are required are fully fulfilled. Three out of four young commanders have postgraduate and doctoral degrees in Health Administration and 70% serves in the wider public sector. And so the New Democracy health officer comes along and says "If we come back to power, we will put them X, to bring the party volunteers. Because all these years in power...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u13	Mr. President, you have lost the court. You know you lost the court?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u14	Don't interrupt and we don't yell. There is a Bureau here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Georgiadis, the House has rules. It's not a teleshopping studio here! Don't interrupt the Prime Minister. The House has rules. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Madam President, I should like to end by pointing out this to the people who are also listening to us, of course, to Members. They wonder how we manage to implement things that have not been done in the health system in the years of development. We cover thousands of empty posts, we increase the hospital budget, we reduce their debts, we ensure pharmacy, we cover two and a half million uninsured, we get ambulances, innovative organs and technology equipment to hospital. How is that possible? I'll answer you straight away. It is made first and foremost because our concern is neither to set up client networks, nor to let or to tolerate continuing this party or much more of our own people to put their hands on supplies, "toes on honey", nor to make the good students of creditors. Let me give you an example. When the lenders asked us to keep the five-day ticket in public hospitals, do you know what we were doing? We did something simple, which could have been considered by the previous ones. We gathered the blood serological control in only four centres. From this simple move, we have only saved EUR 15 million, just as much as the equivalent to abolish this burden on the citizens. And I wonder: Didn't this happen to previous people, or did they even have the incentive to think of an alternative and put it at the negotiating table? We, only from the transport of existing primary health care units from rented private buildings to areas of the wider public, save EUR 5 million each year and give them back to health. And yet, why haven't we been doing the self-evident things now, like the O.R. List, the patient protection offices? It wasn't for two reasons. Firstly, because factors of parties that ruled the country before us - and I will say things with their name - had developed in public hospitals, networks of mutual services. Party rulers and friends of ministers were persecuting health and exchanging services with votes, so it did not help them to dismantle the corruption networks in the hospitals. All this has been happening and people have known it for years and I don't have to explain it. But there is one more reason why they did not make the self-evident. And this is that many of the officials of the previous governments did not have their minds at work, but in their enrichment and in the scandals. Because I don't have a year, maybe I'm talking about my dentistry. I want to close my first speech by saying this. I do not claim, I repeat, that the health system has now become a paradise. I say, however, that there are very important differences over these two years, which appear to be visible. We are working hard on what we call 'the moralisation of the system'. And moralization is a prerequisite for making the system stable and efficient. We are the ones who can make profound reforms in the system. Firstly, why are we not "tie" in no interest? Secondly, because we've put people with technocratic competence. The two ministers are health workers, with years of intervention and honesty. All we do in this direction, the things that we change, are our own parallel health programme. Some people smuggled it, but now they see it in front of them to bear fruit. It's okay. The world, the populace, the vast majority of citizens, who do not have the financial opportunity to go to private hospitals, day after day recognizes this. It's their hope of this parallel program. And we're here for them. Because health is the place where the most extreme class choices can be made. Toxicity there is, unfortunately, measured not in quality of life, but in life expectancy. We will therefore be successful in getting every citizen sick not to get bored in the mind of the hospital, not to be bored by his soul, his presence in a public hospital, not to be filled with additional fears and uncertainties, but to give him an elementary sense of security. And we are here not to give this away - we are not giving the people anything - but to ensure that they have a return, that is, to rejoice, what they have been building for so many years with their own blood. That's our target. He wants a lot of work. We are here to move on with these profound reforms. And I am sure that in a very short time the Greek people will judge this, welcome it and begin to show the different situation in public hospitals. I feel for everything we have achieved in these harsh budgetary conditions, in these hard years, in the area of public health, extremely proud, but also optimistic that the final work that we will be presenting in two and a half years from today will be an incomparable project in relation to the demolition suffered by the public health system during the five-year period of the crisis and the PASOK and the New Democracy governments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House and were toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", forty-four students and students and four teachers from the 4th High School of Heraklion Crete (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] It is also known in this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they have previously participated in the educational program "The Workshop of the Republic" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-one students and two teachers from the 3rd Elementary School of Eukaryia in Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. I hope that we will be brief now. Mr. Leventis, you have the floor for your dentistry. Normally it's four minutes. I'll give you six minutes, because in the previous time, I've got the Minutes, you've talked about six and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u17	Well, the Chamber will not lose if I speak a little more. I heard the Prime Minister. He said he's going to hire, he's going into surgery, he's lowering the costs. Then why is the world complaining, Mr. Tsipras? How's it going? You know, when a prime minister is convinced that he produces a great deal of work, that he does the right thing, and the people do not understand it, then there is a problem. Or communication this government does not pay off or the Prime Minister lives in his world. The whole world swears, indignates, appeals to parties, MPs, to enter hospitals, to do one, to do the other. Doctors who now see the channel of the Parliament sent me a message and told me, "EOPY owes us money, and EFKA demands us to pay. If the EEAS does not pay us, let the ECA make a dose prolongation." He tells you that since EEAY's not paying us, how's EFCA making the money for us? These are tangible, everyday things, which can't be all lies. This whole society cannot be against you. Know that when you came in 2015, society was well placed to you, but slowly, with your mistakes and inconsistencies, you turned society against you. For the New Democracy, I say that what it does is not nice, that is to say,'surprise, sign the negotiation quickly, make it quickly, but we will not vote'. In a country like Belgium, like the Netherlands, if there was a party that was urging the government to sign quickly, but the same party did not vote for a vote, because it felt it would harm him in polling or elections, in another European state it would be oppressed. I will say to Mr Samaras one more thing: Samaras, before making the government Papademos, had 33% in a poll. Making the Papademos government get 18% in May in the pollen. Samaras put the country over the party at that time. We must confess. I ideologically disagree fully with Mr Samaras, but we must recognise that if one behaves patriotically. Because if only the party counted by Mr. Samaras, it had to say "elections, they should all go to cut their necks", partyly to be justified, and let the country be destroyed. If there are some people in this Chamber who do something right to recognize it. Cheers, Prime Minister, rub your teeth to your ministers to try, it's not bad. Because there are laws on internal control of doctors, such as the activation of an internal control unit of the Ministry of Health. Why, while the laws have been passed, have they not been activated? It has become a law since February 2016 to assess all health workers. Why has this law not been activated in order to combat corruption and complications within the health field? The House has passed laws which prevent corruption within health, but the monitoring committees have not been enacted. So whether we've passed the laws or not, they're the same. I didn't know, he didn't get it, and he didn't get it that badly that these laws had been passed. So that you're bringing them in - amendments, I honestly hadn't taken it. And Mr Saridis has now brought me laws with which there is evaluation and internal control of everything. Why don't you activate them? It makes sense abroad that we pass laws without intentional implementation and that is defamation for the country. Meanwhile, I told you there was no surgery in Zakynthos. It's an important omission. Your Minister should bend to give you an answer. What happened? Is the information false? There's no O.R. in a law all over. I would like to say a few words, because I saw the intention of the Prime Minister, to whom, on the occasion of wishing many years since he celebrates, on the subject of negotiation, it is crucial. I told my prototype at work that SYRIZA would do back, because for strangers, it's a red cloth. In other words, at times when privatizations are needed - I know that you are a party on the left and you will feel debilitated, it will be like you have lost your contact with the earth - you cannot and will remain in power as hostages of the trade unionists who operate sickly. That's your decision. You either leave decently and tell the people "We have not been able to do the way we counted" or stay and you retreat to it. I tell you straight away why foreigners will not give up on this and you are wasting time. Don't take it no more, chewing for June, because Symble said "until June you have time". I don't want this to happen, because then we're gonna sign it all, and if we're gonna sign it all in June, why should we go June? In other words, negotiation is of value when it improves on something when it gets away with something. The other thing you said is that there are measures and there are countermeasures. Listen to what the countermeasures are: improving the meal for children in schools. Do you hear the countermeasure? Are you satisfied with these countermeasures? On TV they were called countermeasures yesterday and I felt bad. Why did you say that, why did you rush? Why should we, when a difficult decision has to be made, have an excuse, an alibi in front of society? Honourableness is everything, ladies and gentlemen, in this Chamber, honesty is everything! The honesty would be more appreciated by society than by telling her the difficult things and telling her "And we have some solutions" to gold the pill. I call for honesty! I have also asked the polls to have an independent authority. Because in the Netherlands you saw what happened with the polls, they said that this pigman was going out first and went 12 to 13 points down. The paper 'Le Parisien' does not publish polls because it is - it says - serious - that the newspaper and the polls are not serious, they are all paid. We need an independent authority. One who does - not to say company names now - to provide the independent authority with the information, if the ballots are, if they are from phone numbers. To say "I did these measurements, I had these findings and I found this, the independent authority controlled and "KATHMERINI", the other newspaper, "AFTERMINATION" and I don't know who else there are. While here everything everyone gets out, the next morning all the channels say "both each other, both the other and the other." Why don't you fix this, Mr. Tsipras, on your day? Maybe it's the only thing you're really gonna have to offer! Unless you want to fall and then the New Democracy falls and with the same immoral tactics to come back, with stunned polls again. Because for fifty years New Democracy and PASOK played this ball. He says, "Let him fall, who else will come? It's me. If the other one falls, who else? He's the one." And this "Annas and Caiaphas" played fifty years and the country went bankrupt! I have no more to add. I don't know if I was useful, Mr. Tsipras. Happy birthday to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u18	Prime Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u19	I will thank the President for his wishes and all those who have wished me. I'll just make two small remarks. The President of the Centroon Union raised a great deal of issues. I think it's not the time to answer everything. Maybe I should say we don't have to hurry and get ahead of ourselves. Didn't you like any of the measures with a positive financial impact you heard? You consider, for example, that school meals are meaningless. I'd tell you it's not meaningless, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u20	I didn't say that, but it's not a countermeasure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u21	Okay. I'll tell you it's not meaningless, unfortunately. Because we are in a situation where the years of the crisis, in the five catastrophic years, poverty has multiplyed in our country and we are unfortunately in a situation where children are going to school, even nowadays, without the possibility of giving them a full breakfast. We've been piloting, for many thousands of students, school meals, which aren't lunch, it's a regular meal. And this is a very substantial intervention in the years of the crisis, unfortunately. I wish we could get to the point where these are unnecessary. Where it is implemented, we have evidence from the Pedagogical Institute that the learning capacity and performance of pupils have risen - because we are applying them in particular to those areas where you are aware that they live in low incomes in the people's regions - it is multiplier and, of course, the contribution, if you like, to the family budget, is important. The decision, therefore, to extend these programmes and not just from 2019 onwards, which will apply measures and countermeasures, as is commonly said and to reach the three hundred thousand primary schoolchildren, that is to say, half the learning population, is not a negligible intervention, in my view. Just as it is not negligible to take care not only of the elderly, who of course all the debate is about pensions and it is very important. Why is it important? Because in our country, unlike abroad, Mr Leventis, where this concept of the 'nuclear family' does not exist and when you become eighteen you leave home - the pension of the elderly does not go for his own needs. He goes to the unemployed child, to the grandchildren who stays until thirty-five in the baby room. That's the reality. We will design programmes that eliminate child poverty and deal with the major problems that have to do with the new families, the young people who want to have children. And here we are only subsidising the third child, not the first and second that is the overwhelming majority. There's no rental allowance. That's why they stay in children's rooms and don't get married. There's no possibility for all children to go free to kindergartens. These are not funny reforms to underestimate them and say, "What countermeasures are these? It's fun." You're wrong. So wait and you'll see. Wait and you'll see! Okay, here's a difference of perception. We want to build some infrastructure, not fireworks. We've reduced the VAT a little, big deal! And to reduce the VAT, from the big supermarket chains, it won't go to the consumer, unfortunately. To build some infrastructure permanent, stable and targeted, where Greek society needs, this is an important thing, and this dialogue should also take place between us, but unfortunately it is not taking place. I now come to other issues. I would like to say to you that I hear your opinion and your proposal on the matter of the independent authority on polling and I consider it reasonable. If there's a cross-party consensus, let's move on. But I am coming back to health. Mr. Leventis, I repeat, I have not claimed that there is a paradise situation. I have argued with figures, with figures, not with air words, that where five years of redundancies were being made, we are recruited, that where five years have there been no planning for reforms, we have important reforms for primary health care, and to stop this horrible story with the ruffles about who will get into the ICUs. We've increased the number of ICUs, streamlined the system, fought day by day. We opened the hospital in Santorini, where some wanted to give it to individuals. They didn't open it up, ready building years, with facilities inside, because some had private interests and wanted to open up side privately and go to privately. We are fighting, as we will fight for the medicine, as we will fight for and for the Greek people to know what happened all these years. We don't have any vengeance. It is not a personal matter, but here all these years, especially the years of fat cows, but unfortunately the years of the memorials - and that is worse - some with one hand knotted pensions and the other continued to party. The Greek people need to know what happened. So I want to close with this. In recent times the clouds have been dented in the field of health, with publications, public prosecutors, processions, one scandal behind the other. And, of course, they are causing the common sense of a people who have lifted their shoulders disproportionate over the years. Obviously, I'm talking about the case of CEDEFOP and everything that they saw in the light of publicity, the "black" of money, that went in the form of ads to friends and dissidents. So why didn't the great media say anything five years and everything was good in health and now, when five things are done, there are problems in health? Why? Have you ever wondered, Mr. Leventis, about that? I refer to the Novartis case, which, like Siemens, has come from abroad. He's involved the FBI, prosecutors in the United States. It is a multinational drug that, for years in Greece and not only, but in Greece, had set up a overpricing party. And why in Greece? Because the price of medicinal products in Greece also set the price of medicinal products in other countries of Europe and some may say - I do not know, I hear, I am not an expert - to be a scandal that in terms of damage to the public may be greater than 'Siemens'. I read yesterday in the case-file on Henry Dynan, which comes to Parliament, on how this hospital was found in the hands of individuals for great damage to the Greek public, which is also investigated in court. The case-file comes to the House because it runs counter to the political faces. That's why he comes to the House, like other procedural documents, we don't put them in the drawer. Of course, we are not going to create a situation where there is a risk of defaming people for no reason, but we cannot put Papantoniou's file on the drawer, for example. We did not put it in the drawer, and that is why we took the initiative to set up a preliminary investigation, and I saw, in honor of all the parties, that they agreed. But all these years, it's been this scandal. Why? All these years! Should we have come, Mr. Leventis, for that? How many years do we know there's smoke in there, I say, to see if there's a fire? Has the only Chohatzopoulos ever done everything in this country? In any case, I'll tell you something else. If I'm a Prime Minister and one after each other, my ministers are going through pre-inquiry, I'd have had a problem, wouldn't I? I wouldn't play it wise, go to Delphi, give advice to the Delphi Mundio! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] So, for Mr. Papantoniou, we'll talk about it here. But as far as I know, man lives in Switzerland, he's fine, he has no problem. As far as I know his son is advisor to Mr. Mitsotakis, and despite the fact that all parties said that he would become a pre-examination, he made a statement and said "buried the PASOK and the Democratic Compact". Really? Shouldn't the Greek people know? Shouldn't the House investigate? So I'm coming back. Pollutant smoke in the health sector. ‘Novartis’, CEDEFOP, Henry Dunan, overpriceds, publications, pleadings, public Prosecutor's orders. I want to say one thing. This government has made a commitment to both the first and second elections, that it will not let a pin fall down. The party held in previous years in health, which is mostly for the sake of great and strong interests, will come to the surface until the last decimal place and the responsibilities, wherever they exist, whether political or criminal, will be attributed. We don't care about the point of limitation. It's a terrible law, which we all have to decide to change. But that is not the point. The question is to pay justice. It's not the rematch, it's justice being done. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that in the next few days Members of Parliament, both from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and from the Group of Independent Greeks, will present to Parliament a proposal for a committee of inquiry on scandals in health. There will be nothing hidden from the sun! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] That is where we will have the opportunity to assume our responsibilities. And the smiles and the scars, not the windows, here, in public. Some may lose their smiles, publicly, when certain responsibilities are being blamed for what happened all these years, where this money went, how the Greek public was damaged. I do not know, Madam President, whether this will increase the view of the Parliamentary channel. I am sure, however, that it will create a feeling in Greek society that there is a political will to clarify all the dark cases, that nothing remains in the shadow. And this commitment we're going to do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u22	The debate on the current question to the Prime Minister has been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in this House on Monday 20 March 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Ms Mavroudi Voridis, Member of the Republic of Attica, to the Minister of the Interior, on the granting of a five-year obligation allowance to a firefighter. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Athanasios Bardalis's Question No 603/14-3-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Athanasios Bardalis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on measures to stop the situation in 2017 by the members of the OGA insurance which has been suspended as a result of retirement insurance. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 593/13-3-2017 by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the design for the abolition of the Antiquities Literature Kilkis. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No. 604/14-3-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity regarding the reconstructing of the Labour Housing and Workshop Organisations. 3. The Question No 560/6-3-2017 by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of the Interior about the restoration of natural disaster damage in the Municipality of Eurota. 4. The Question by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of the PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the "anti-constitutional and extra-academic criteria for the selection of the candidates of the PPC at the Greek Open University". 5. The question raised by Mr Georgios Vlachos on the proposals and requests from the Mediterranean municipalities for the renewal of the Athens International Airport Convention “Eleftherios Venizelos” with the Greek State for the period 2025-2055. 6. The Question No 575/7-3-2017 by Mr. Attica of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Cassidyri to the Minister of Finance, on the "provocative reduction of the special solidarity contribution for political persons". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Health about the weakening of the Centre for Health of the Municipality of Sparta. 8. The Question No 414/30-1-2017 by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance about the state of the investment in the former airport of Greece. 9. The Question No 409/30-1-2017 by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance about the sale of the "National Insurance". 10. The question by number 400/27-1-2017 of the Z' Vice President of the Parliament and MP of the Athens I of Potamios Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister of Finance, concerning unexploited properties for which the public pays high rents. 11. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the 'publishing of presidential decrees for the recognition of professional rights of TEI graduates'. 12. The current question by MP Magnesia of New Democracy, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of Economy and Development, concerning the increase in the unemployment rate in Magnesia due to deindustrialisation. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The Question No 504/20-2-2017 by the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Pappas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about "the fulfilment of the Order of the Nation". 14. Observed. The Question No 530/24-2-2017 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on "the retention of part of the OPEKEPE grants due to the failure to pay contributions to the GEOI". 15. The Question No 552/3-2017 by Z' Vice President of the Parliament and Mr Spyridon Lykoudis to the Minister of Health about the degraded state of health. 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development about the integration of sewerage networks and sewage treatment of Kontovasina, Levidi and Calliani Arcadia. 17. The question by No. 538/24-2-2017 of the MP Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Haras Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "in the air the task of extending the National Gallery". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of its Rules of Procedure). (Parliament adopted 1. Question No 3223/7-2-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGlou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the announcement of the results of the Social Tourism Programme for workers, unemployed persons and their families. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 446/18-10-2016 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the serious problems faced by farmers. 3. The question by No 2746/20-1-2017 of the Independent MP from Athens Mr. Theocharis (Haris) Theocharis to the Minister of National Defence, concerning the decommissioning of the Greek Defence Systems (ESA) by granting the destruction of old ammunition to a private person. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point we will suspend the topical and urgent questions procedure to come to the debate on the topical question, as decided by the Conference of Presidents in yesterday's sitting, and at the end of the topical question we will return to the topical questions. In order for there to be peace and regularity in the transition to the agenda, we will be taking a break for two, three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 10/14-2-2017 by Members of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR etc. Ioannis Manitis, Odysseus Konstantinopoulos, Georgios Arvanitides, Ilhan Ahmet, Evangelos Venizelos, Leonida Gregorakos, Vassilios Kegeroglou, Charalou (Haras), Kefidou, Yannis Koutsoukos, Dimitrios Kremastinos, Dimitrios Konstantinopoulos, Andreas Loverdou, Theodoros Papatheodorou, Konstantinos Scandalidis, Michael Jeleni, Paraskevi Christophilopoulou, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “In the deadlock, the energy, the dangers for society and the national economy”. The floor will be the first questioner, MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos, for ten minutes. Then we shall proceed with the other questions, in the order given by the Democratic Alliance. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you must probably come from the negotiation. I hope that PPC matters are going well and we have no problems. But since you were not here before, we had a debate on health issues, I heard at some point and I remembered that Mr Tsipras and Mr Leventis were fighting in a foreign barn and I am talking about meals in schools. I would just like to remind you, if it has a value for the children who are listening to us, but also for the people who are listening to us from the channel of the House, that this was about the European Aid Fund for the Disabled, children's meals and child poverty. The 330 million came to the country on December 16, 2014 and was responsible for Mr. Kegeroglu. Sometimes, within the framework of the parliamentary procedure, we must speak clearly, not change history on all issues and tell the people who have fought a good one. Unfortunately, Mr. Tsipras decided to fight in a foreign barn with Mr. Leventis! Now we've heard of exams. Bring as many as you want, there's no problem. Did you hear Mr. Varoufakis the other day? Mr. Varoufakis said he needed an examination. He sent a message "Together we took the country to the inappropriate memorandum". Since you're conducting an investigation, aren't we going to do one for Mr. Varoufakis and one for the five-year Karamanlis? Anyway, make up your mind, check it out. Minister, you are the third Minister to take over from the Ministry of the Environment. First it was Mr. Lafazanis - you will remember him - then Mr. Skourletis and now you. This is a ministry which plays an important role in investment issues. As far as I'm concerned, a master stops the Greek investment! And there are too many environmental studies in your ministry. Let's go to the issues that concern our question today. You will allow me to begin by speaking of PPC. Where is PPC today? What phase is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Constantinople, I will keep you time, but not to delay the children, to make an announcement. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-seven students and students and three educational sessions from the 4th High School of Heraklion Crete (Third Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Kegeroglu, I have interrupted Mr. Constantinople!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u26	We should welcome the kids. So where is PPC, after twenty-three months of government, Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Kammenos, with Ministers, Mr. Lafasan, Mr. Skourletis and now you, Minister? At the end of 2014, the unrealistic was at EUR 1.2 billion. Today it is at EUR 3 billion. The 2014 equity value was EUR 2,5 billion. Today it is at EUR 600 million. He went down four times. She lost 12% of her customers, on the presumption - for we are sincere - well-paid, when indeed, Minister, on the basis of this information provided by PPC, in 2015, the first year you took, you saved because of the fall in oil price of 380 million euros. Today we need to speak clearly about the two different projects that the previous government had and the PASOK proposal. And I would like to make it clear here that the proposal put forward at the outset and the additions and amendments which have reached the last moment in this House were - you will allow me to say this with an excessive amount of intervention - from a mere salesman to a development and investment project. That's our difference. And I want now to see what we were talking about. What you were saying is that the citizens, the trade unions, the world, the market. Then there was a project called "Small PPC Plan". Let's see what this plan said, so that the citizens can assess it, we can all assess it. Was it based on a model? It was based on the model of the Italian ENEL, which had many problems and then, with the similar plan, you know better than I do - I think you know it - that it made progress in its work, went to twelve countries and solved all its financial problems. Why did we go there? We had the same objective problem you have and you have to solve it. We have had problems with the European Union and the European Court of Justice. What for? We were convicted, because private individuals don't have lignite and hydroelectric units. And we made a choice. It probably wasn't the best possible one, but let's report it to see what we did and what you suggested. There was a balanced distribution of PPC's customers and units with a ratio of 70% -30%, 70% under public control, 30% with the private sector. But it was a balanced distribution. Did PPC put money into its funds? He put money on it. He put close to 2 billion euros. So there was the new unit and its private development plan, a programme - not to say too much - especially big for western Macedonia. You, like other matters, wanted to abolish it by a law, with an article. And you told the citizens and young people that they wanted to sell PPC, get over with the public, while we basically upgraded the public. Let's see your suggestion. What is your proposal, the proposal you have put forward with the negotiation that you have made? You brought the NOME process. What's that? It's a wholesale electricity auction. What did you say? We said 70% - 30% to the private. In 2020, how much will PPC have customers and production? So, what did you agree to and sign the company's production and clientele? 50%. In other words, we - the young people - are listening to us - were saying about a ratio of 70% - 30%, bringing 2 billion to PPC, which we would give to develop, invest in order to be able to compete with PPC and the new government, which was more philosophical and thus the world understood it, says, "I sign up to 2021 for PPC to lose 50% of its customers and production of energy. Fair enough, huh? Awesome progressive! To say the worst thing is happening. You hear the governor of PPC - to be perfectly honest and clear, you weren't at the Ministry and I don't know if you would do anything else - to say, "We're selling cheap energy with NOME". Who is it to? To us? Isn't he appointed by SYRIZA - ANEL Government? Didn't you sign this plan? Are you also oppositioning each other to survive? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Secondly, may I ask you, Mr Stathakis, this: Since you too have signed KISYP, in the annual PPC reduction targets of 12% in 2017, 13% in 2018 and 13% in 2019, where are we today? Maybe we're at 89%, and in the end we have to go to 75%? I'm saying that because I hear about the president of PPC that he's putting some sales. Is that true? Will you reach your goals, or will you reach the final vendor, which will be much worse, not from the previous one, than from anyone else? Where is the negotiation today? Were you in the negotiation today? I don't want to say about the articles, because PPC isn't a thing we should play. PPC has the image of the country. And we really want PPC to survive, because it concerns the country itself and the development of the country itself. But, Minister - and I conclude with this - the PPC case breaks down all the myths of the government and proves your lies, your ideas, your inability and the alleged social person that Mrs Christophilopoulou will speak about. And the big question is what you'll leave behind when you leave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u27	We shall now proceed to the second honourable Member, Mr Dimitrios Cremastino. Mr. Kremastino, would you like me to join you and your dentistry and have eight minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u28	If necessary, Mr President, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u29	Okay. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u30	Mr President, Minister, the question today is on the table: 'In the deadlock of energy, the dangers to society and the national economy'. Indeed, the question is, what are the factors, what are the components of the national economy? A basic component, which is also called the 'industrial of the national economy', is tourism. The question therefore is how much energy tourism is covered today and especially in those regions which are sensitive to tourism. And I mean the islands where tourism is also very sensitive, but the reasons are that we should pay particular attention to them. Unfortunately, the evidence I have at least is not hopeful at all, because there is indeed a great problem. So how can these islands and tourists feel safe when there are power cuts and when PPC or, if you want, energy supply is unable to cover these problems? I am tabling a report on the Minutes from the community of southern Rhodes, where it is described - it is addressed to the mayor - exactly what I say to you in the following words. "This year, apart from scheduled holidays, we also have other holidays, which lasted for more than fifteen hours. Also.’ - as he says to the mayor - "...you must be aware that in our community there are people who use 24 hours of oxygen who are transported to the Gennadi hospital for their needs". [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Dimitrios Kremastinos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I stop at this point in the humanitarian. But humanitarian is self-evident. But I'm going one step further, too. You know that the southern Rhodes right now is the main source, if you like, of Rhodes' tourist current, which is one of the largest components of tourism along with Crete. So you understand when these tourists come and see this situation, what advertising they do about our tourism. So it explains why the numbers of tourists prosper and their tourism ministers are enthusiastic about numbers. However, when they come to the end to see what the figures have produced, they see that there are virtually no more profits, because quality tourism, as you know, resorts to Spain, Italy and not to us. So while we are favouring the climate in Turkey and the other neighbouring countries - Egypt, etc. - and tourists come, these tourists who come are economically weak and they don't leave money, and that's because we don't have infrastructure. Infrastructural, of course, is not just energy, PPC and others. Infrastructure is to have facilities such as we have in Mykonos and Santorini and in all the other small islands of the Aegean. Then one could think of raising Greece as a centre for quality tourism. Unfortunately, however, today we are confined to figures only and, unfortunately, the figures are not favourable to us. As they inform me, there is a delay in the implementation of the first phase of the electricity project of the islands of Cyclades - Syros, Paros, Tinos, Mykonos and Naxos - with the mainland system of Lavrio. The relevant contracts for the implementation of the project were signed in September 2014. The costs were determined, following an international tender, at 238 million, with eighteen months ending, that is, April 2016. According to the Convention - as you can see - it should have been completed, because we are in April 2017. So people wonder what will happen. The delay causes multiple negative consequences for the economy, the environment and the overall development of the islands. It goes without saying that the project will create an economy of 100 million a year, eliminate the risk of blackouts, strengthen investment and improve the natural and the investment environment on the islands. Finally, the delay in the first electrical interconnection of the islands is pushing back the next phases of the project, which relate to the interconnection of the remaining islands of the south and west Cyclades. The people of the northern Aegean are also wondering. Can you tell us - and tell Parliament - what is the planning for the energy coverage of the islands of the northern Aegean? We would very much like to hear it. Minister, I will have to focus again on the Dodecanese and bring you an example that I have experienced. Located in the summer on an island near Rhodes, Halki, we had a power cut for several hours, and as a result the tourists go out on the streets, the refrigerators will not work. You realize what prevailed. The situation was tragic. The answer was that there was no electricity from Rhodes, because the electricity in Halki comes with an underground pipeline from the sea and, when the southern Rhodes has these problems I mentioned above, you realise that it is impossible to channel electricity to the islands that accept the provision of services from Rhodes, so that the whole country is exposed in terms of tourism. I repeat that it is the tourist ambassadors in Europe who see these phenomena. It should therefore be understood that the problem is a major one. It is not a matter of opposition that, at the present moment, every party brings to the House, because tourism is indeed a source of life for Greece and should at least, at least, be supported in such a way that we believe that, apart from the figures, the Greek economy will prosper. Because it is unacceptable that the numbers of tourists are growing each year, that the tourism ministers in question - not only the current ones - be taken for the increases and that the economy does not collect the appropriate amounts. I would therefore be happy - at least I - to give us a positive answer on these issues that I have raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u31	Until the third question, Mr Chelelis Michael, comes to Stepma, I would like to say to my dear colleague Mr Constantinople - although I am sure the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy will answer - that our speakers and other colleagues in the two and a half years of coexistence have repeatedly asked for an examination of how we entered the memorandum and not just for the five-year Karamanlis, but from 2000 to 2010. Then it was not because your party was reacting. So we don't forget.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u32	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u33	So I am pleased that we will be going 2000-2010 to find out about the first five years. So start the initiative. It is certain that we will sign.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u34	He's been filed. Our party has proposed...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u35	He's been filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Cheleigh, would you like me to put your dentistry on?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u37	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u38	Good. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. I followed the debate earlier on the Prime Minister's time with the Chief of the Union of Centres, Mr Leventis. As a major issue, the Prime Minister raised school meals, that they would be from the compensatory measures against the agreement. Let me tell him that the management failure of the ministers forgot about the 3 million euros of food aid for schools. This was the case with the Ministry of Rural Development. I think that's well known and the publicity he got. We have today taken the initiative to have this debate on an important and vital area, such as energy, which is involved in every economic activity that is taking place in our country, each Greek household, and on the other hand it is a big chapter for our country, for its geostrategic value and a useful tool for its foreign policy. I would like to stress, speaking today in the House, and with more than two years in front of us, SYRIZA - ANEL, that the word 'energy' brings me two alternative interpretations. One is related to the technical term of energy production and the other, which has come to me more and more often in mind in recent times, is that with all your energy, with your governance, you are causing damage to the country. In this second category I include both the lack of energy or your inaction in the face of the country's vital problems, particularly in the energy sector. Minister, I cannot understand, for example, why you are not going through a series of actions to reduce the smuggling of oil. As you know, a number of technical issues to combat smuggling have been solved, such as the input-output system in service stations, GPS in transport cars, input-outs in wholesalers, refineries and others. Tell us, Minister, at the time you're in the government, what changed in the input-outs system? What measures has the government taken to protect legitimate undertakings with CEDEFOP controls? What is the frequency of the checks carried out today by the CEDEFOP? They do checks, and, if so, what are the results? I would like to tell you here that, according to information submitted by the previous Deputy Minister of Finance to the House in 2016, Mr Alexiadis, in 2014 there were two thousand two hundred and eighty checks every month in the offices, in 2015 we fell to the seven hundred and thirty-eight checks and in 2016 there were only two hundred eighty-five checks. What are the sums that you have brought to the country today, which you were saying in an election, that you would smuggle smuggling? We'd like numbers on them, Minister. Two and a half thousand litres and you've all caught illegally moving fuel in smuggling. The solution for you is to increase taxes on mineral oils, excises, to pay them by the citizens who no longer have them. I will raise specific issues for the primary sector, because it is a question of wondering why you do not go ahead with two simple things that we have proposed and will benefit the primary sector, which is the main pillar of the country's development and will reduce the cost of energy by at least 40%, when the cost of energy in production has been around 30%. The first is the amendment and the proposal for a law which we have twice tabled to the House on agricultural oil. We have worked it out and can act immediately, without any administrative costs and without any problems of smuggling. The second is that you do not go any further on net metering for farmers, for GMOs and TWGs. We have said before that that the survival of agricultural holdings and the competitiveness of Greek agriculture today depend to a significant extent on the formation and reduction of production costs. In order to reduce costs, and electricity, by Decision 24461/2014, on the basis of Law 4254, the possibility of installing photovoltaic systems for self-production in the primary sector is granted. Why don't you move on to them, when they have subsidies on the small islands 75%, in the less developed areas 50% and in the other regions 40%? To young people, and not farmers, it reaches up to 75%. In fact, the Prime Minister in 2016 promised the farmers, after they were cut down... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. ...with the new tax-insurance, he played the delegation of farmers, saying that this solution for production by means of photovoltaic power, to make first use of the farmers and then to give it to PPC, would promote it with a direct institutional framework. Yes, the institutional framework came with Law 4414/2016, a little more improved than the one it existed, which could work. The Ministerial Decision, which is necessary for its implementation, has not been adopted for six months. It is true today that every farmer who sees us at the moment when he goes out of production with the tax-supporting policy imposed by that government on him, with taxation policy as well, with the increase in VAT, with the inefficiency of the excise duty on oil. A vaterlo, on the part of the government, that you received a refund of excise duty on oil to farmers to reduce the cost of 250 million. You tried to give 120 million, and that's still not what the farmers took. Finally work and face today, at this critical moment for our country, our reality for the benefit of Greek citizens, for the benefit of those who want to produce. That is why we have taken this initiative today to have this debate in this House, to show Greek citizens that we want to be useful in problems that are serious about everyday life, regardless of whether your Government is, unfortunately, in a lack of seriousness in dealing with these issues and doing serious damage to the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u40	Thank you. I have the floor to ask Mr Christophilopoulou on Friday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will raise another aspect of energy policy, which is both social and developmental, because it is precisely aimed at combating energy poverty. It is the Econ omic Programme. The Domestic Economics Programme with EUR 500 million started at the beginning of the crisis, and fifty thousand households joined it. They were created by the program "I save at home" then 12 000 jobs, within the crisis. The households who have been able to make use of this programme have really not only benefited from having more heat and saving energy in their homes, but of course saved an average of EUR 300 a year. For poor households 300 euros a year is a very serious amount. We have had the continuation of this programme ready, Minister. You found her ready as government SYRIZA - ANEL. In your drawer, therefore, it was a continuation of the programme for another thirty thousand applications, with a sum of EUR 1.2 billion, so that both housing and public buildings and business buildings could benefit from this programme. This could be part of the Juncker programme, to lever private capital, but you have canceled it, to reorganise it, you say, and to "baptize" it, because in baptism it is perhaps the only area, like lies and propaganda, which Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos really run laurels. So you stopped it, and it remains stopped, Minister. What about this program? You said he'd take the generator, then you said February. We have March and the new date you gave is June 2017. Have you only thought of this delay in what it means to poor households that could join? What does it mean to young people who could have found a job in the energy service undertakings that would have taken part in the programme? How many new places could have been created? In fact, as you are well aware, for these jobs, construction work, summer days are more appropriate than winter days. You know that very well and, however, you are late to take off "I'm saving by house". Why, Minister? Beyond the two years, thirty months in fact, the government is sleeping. From month to month and kicking the ball a little below. Just as it does, ladies and gentlemen, for evaluation. Late to delay. Extension to extension. "Won't you get bored? We must be well and be in the chairs of power." In fact, ladies and gentlemen, this is a programme which Mr Juncker himself praised for in the case of France had been praised for being a pioneer and very important programme, because, as we have said, it combines the development dimension with the social dimension, it is at the heart of our policies and our values, and you have thrown it away and we are still waiting. Let's hope that maybe with this question we can help relaunch it a little more quickly. However, I come to another dimension, ladies and gentlemen, of the social tariff action. I'll start another show. This time it's a little old. We had a show now with Tsipras Leventis. We also had a show just before the 2015 elections of Durus - Tsipras. So what did they say? They said that at last three thousand households will have cheap electricity, the region gives the citizens cheap electricity. I'll come back to this nice announcement. We said that you get excellent on that. The PASOK government was the first government in the European Union to introduce cheap electricity, with a discount of up to 42% on the poor households. It is something that you, as a coalition, voted against together with the 'GENERAL' and other reforms. Ladies and gentlemen, seven hundred thousand households had benefited from this reduced electricity price. Keep the number: seven hundred thousand households. This policy continues, complemented by us and with another policy: we have introduced 70% cheaper electricity for PPC, for poverty management structures, social grocery stores, piles, all forms of poverty management services, for institutions certified through the National Centre for Social Solidarity and for ecclesiastical institutions. This regulation was, therefore, a regulation, too, breathing, because these institutions and the most vulnerable groups of the population would have been able to make it even cheaper. Of course, the third dimension comes to complete our social invoice package, which is the free supply of electricity through the application - decentralised, because we believe in decentralisation, because they were aware of what deprivational family really needs from completely free electricity - and we started with a possibility for the head of the municipality's social service in consultation and agreement with the head of PPC locally to be able to integrate households into free electricity. At that time tens of thousands of households had joined. What really happened to the Douru - Tsipra announcement in the meantime? Look at the publications of the time and you will see that only ninety-eight households out of the three hundred thousand benefited from this large and bold announcement of the supposed first time left. I would therefore like to see, Minister, where they are - and I believe we have answers as democratic inclusion - these initiatives today. As far as we, as opposition we are trying to do a documented work and essential one, and as colleagues have said, we are exercising opposition on the substance by criticising, but also by proposing and weighing out where you are going, how it is implemented, because, as Mrs Fotio said, 'Financial' does not implement it, but, let us see, from the measures I mentioned, it is only the case of free electricity that I mentioned, it is a free initiative that was taken by Mrs Fotio, again free of charge, with public resources. I want you to tell us where this initiative is, because we are not populists and demagogers to zero. The only one of our three initiatives that goes on is this. So tell us, Minister, in your answer how many households have so far benefited and how much you aim for the future and what you will do with the institutions and the free provision of the future. I think that these responses are intended to enable the House to have information on how social policy can be combined with the fight against energy poverty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u42	In this world, Mr. Christophilopoulou, there is nothing free of charge. We pay all the others - steel - to have our particular abominable citizens free of charge. But not that the government pays. The citizens are the rest of us. Hallie, I repeat. The reason for this is that my dear old colleague, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u43	Favourable treatment, Mr President, for our Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u44	Sure. May I, Mr. Kegeroglu, and the dentistry, have eight minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u45	For now, five and we're seeing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u46	Okay, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, two years SYRIZA - ANEL, two years lost for energy, as well as in many other sectors. In the hydrocarbon sector, however, the government's inappropriateness is impressive. Although it has received specific design and actions in progress, unfortunately it has not completed the evaluations and contracts that have arisen from the competitions it has found in progress. It has not yet brought a single ratification agreement to the House, it has not proceeded with the procedures for new land notices, with negative consequences, of course, for the State's revenue and the creation of new jobs. As a miracle, of course, following the determination of the debate on our question, the press was given no paper: "Green light for hydrocarbon research in the Ionian Sea by ELPE, “TOTAL” and “EDISON”". It is also a method of preventing the debate by the Ministry for the inappropriateness it demonstrates. After 2009 we have to say that it has indeed entered a serious, realistic and visionary basis the issue of the use of hydrocarbons. The plan, the institutional framework and all initiatives to develop are, of course, the work of the PASOK government, but it is mainly a demand of times and of Greek society. When we proceeded with this design, some of the current rulers - it is not difficult to remember - were talking about carbohydrates. Others, such as SYRIZA MPs, in which Mr Stathakis, too, voted against. It is characteristic that Article 156 of Law 4001, which further guaranteed the country's national sovereign rights and the economic interests stemming from the use of the Exclusive Economic Zone, voted against them. Unfortunately, this is SYRIZA's prehistory. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is, of course, taking advantage of this article at every opportunity and, of course, when there are violations of territorial waters. It is this unspeakable admission of the current SYRIZA, which, otherwise, is cursing on others. But let us, in particular, come to the initiatives, to see the inappropriate government. We proceeded to four competitions. It is known that 2012 was entrusted to the Norwegian "PGS" the geophysical survey on Ionian and Southern Crete, the first official survey, free of public costs, and the country first acquired secure research data, which are, of course, available for use. Secondly, a competition was opened for Patraikos, Ioannina and Katakolo and his appointment was completed by a law ratified by the Greek Parliament, which SYRIZA, as he did for the rest, voted against. Thirdly, we proclaimed in 2014 and submitted offers and folders in February 2015 for the land plots of Arta, Preveza, Istanbul and Achaea. So far nothing has happened at all. In October 2014, the large tender for the twenty-sea plots was also opened and tenders were submitted in June. Since then, the government has only given extensions. The last one he gave is until June 2017. We hope it's the last one. Here is now the report to which I referred at the outset and I hope that this procedure will go ahead and that a ratification agreement will come to Parliament for the use of this particular land. I should also like to remind the Minister that they have even voted against Law 4162 on the establishment of the Solidarity Fund, which is a huge need and the only road, I would say, in the coming years, if things go ahead, to support the pension insurance system. What's she predicting? It provides that 95% of the resources from the recovery of hydrocarbons go to the insurance pension scheme. 5% goes to finance postgraduate programmes and doctorates, in areas related to the use of hydrocarbons. Of course, I must remind you that it is already predicted that from the profits of 20%, based on Law 4001, it goes to the region concerned, in order for economic and social development projects and actions to be carried out. Ladies and gentlemen, with our initiatives at European and international level, the country's participation in large energy pipelines has been ensured. They're acquaintances. I want to remind them in summary. It is the pipeline linking the Middle East - Crete - Italy, which is a project of common interest for the European Commission, is IGB, the Greek-Bulgarian pipeline, which is a co-financed European programme, is TAR. And, of course, we must say that for EuroAsia Interconnector Israel - Cyprus - Crete - Attica, which has been proposed to join and finance the Juncker package, there is nothing younger and we want to know why this effort has been left in the middle. I close my first speech by referring to the issue of Crete's energy adequacy in the medium term and remind the Minister that there is a letter from PPC, which refers to the obligation to reduce the production of electricity from oil plants in Crete in the years to come, in the application of European directives, which means that the procedures that have to do with Crete's energy connection must be speeded up. Otherwise, neither will the small link for the Peloponnese - Crete of 50 kilowatts be able to meet the needs nor, of course, the largest Attica - Crete, which is expected to be ready after 2044. I close by presenting for the Minutes, Mr President, the proposal from 22-12-2015 to set up a committee of inquiry, all over the period, as you have identified and the reasons for the memorandum. And I have asked the other groups to sign it in order to move forward. Only one Member, independent, has responded to the signatures of the Members of the Democratic Alliance. So here it is, I'm tabling it for the Minutes. Anybody who wants to sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u48	You should testify. I, of course, referred to the period June 2012-December 2014. Find me a public statement in favour of this position. We are moving on to Mr Constantopoulos - he has asked himself to unite, because there is little time for protology - for five minutes, with a little tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, two years of government SYRIZA - ANEL and no energy plan, no substantial initiative, no results. There have been three energy ministers so far, no strategy, no development prospects. And the government, 'don't turbulence me'. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the RAE said that by chance we escaped the blackout in January and pointed out the country's serious energy shortage problem. And here the government is "voodoo voice in the wilderness". Gentlemen of the government, drag the country into an inappropriate second and third memorial. You're tied up. As a result, PPC has lost 50% of the electricity generation market over the next three years. You have signed PPC's conviction with Law.4336/2015. And I wonder if this isn't a sale of national property, then what is it? Let me remind you of the invasion that has been suffered by fifty thousand families. For how long? For two whole years, 20 million euros were retained by two hundred, seventy, two mountain villages in the country, established wind parks. And you're constantly postponing credit to their accounts. DESA is the ultimate shipwreck. A mature privatisation was thrown into the trash, depriving at least EUR 400 million of public funds and at the same time tens of jobs. What's left? Suffice everywhere and lack of credibility. There is no policy in hydrocarbons. Result? Zero. We had formed a nationally proud energy policy in a troubled geopolitical environment from Ukraine, Syria and Iraq to Egypt and Libya, with a compass of regional cooperation, peace and development. And you came with Mr. Varoufakis to report to the troika about the investigations into Greek deposits. Gentlemen of the Government, we had foreseen by Law 4162/2013 the establishment of a National Social Solidarity Fund. We demanded that you commit that the revenue from the extraction of hydrocarbons will strengthen the social security system of the future generations of Greek insured persons. However, you gentlemen, have preferred this money to go to the militarisations. So, gentlemen, it cannot be the Left you are evangelizing. Minister, the Convention was finalised and the way for the implementation of research work in the Ionian Sea region was opened. The lease agreement for the right to search and exploit hydrocarbons was signed. Where? On the sea plot 2 west of Corfu. We will, of course, make our contributions when you bring the convention for ratification to Parliament. But, Minister, the signing of the conventions for three land areas in Western Greece, Arta - Preveza, the northwestern side of the Peloponnese and Itolokarnania is pending. And I ask you, will signatures be dropped and when? And I come to the farm oil. We have tabled to you, gentlemen, a proposal to reduce energy costs in the primary sector. We have brought an amendment to the House on agricultural oil that can be applied directly without administrative costs. We have proposed that the agricultural oil card should be introduced, incorporating the quantity that the holder is entitled to. We have proposed that there should be objectivity, that the right should be determined on the basis of the OSE declaration, by crop type, area and livestock. You, too, deaf. You have forgotten your commitments. You forgot about the tax relief that you promised in advance. All you have achieved was if you bring farmers to despair. And I come to energy clearing. There is no ministerial decision, Minister, to implement Law 4414/2016 on energy offsetting with TWG beneficiaries and other collective bodies of farmers. Minister, we are, in fact, simply talking about an amendment to the Ministerial Decision 24461/2014. Energy clearing will lead to support for the competitiveness of Greek agricultural products and a real reduction of 50% of energy production costs. I close with the programme 'I save at home'. You have received, Minister, a programme that has been successful, with forty thousand interventions in homes of a total budget of 400 million euros. It is a programme that created 12 000 jobs in the private sector and stimulated the construction sector that is now falling apart. In view of the new programming period 2014-2020 you have had a good job. There is a complete programme of 1,2 billion euros with private sector participation and co-financing from the Juncker package. However, Minister, and here are turtle steps. It is complete and this programming period and you will not have brought results. Of the thirty - five thousand ready - to - make applications, you are still in the five thousand. It is a shame, gentlemen, that resources and jobs have been lost. Minister, reassess your current government work. Act your election commitments. You disguise every day the expectations of Greek citizens. Because all you can do is shape a climate of fear and indignation in society. And a climate of inconvenience and insolvency in our European partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u50	The last question is raised by Mr Ilhan Asmet. Would you like, Mr. Colleague, to unify the time for you too?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u51	In any case, I will not use dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u52	So I'll give you five minutes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u53	Minister, we are discussing an important issue today, energy poverty, which concerns the economic recession in Greece and concerns the Greek society. You know, Minister, that corresponding indicators by EUROSTAT in 2016 show that 29% of Greeks are at risk of relative or absolute poverty, unable to maintain their homes at an adequate temperature. 42% is unable to pay off public utility accounts in time, while 15% are faced with material damage within their homes. Furthermore, a recent report on energy poverty in Greece highlighted the absence of any plan to tackle the phenomenon in Greece on behalf of your Government, Minister, unlike the other European countries, who are planning actions and absorbing European funds to deal with it. The government, however, committed itself to privatizations in particular not only did it not go ahead, but it destroyed the already mature privatisation of the Treasury, creating first of all a major trauma to investors' confidence in the country, but also losses of revenues in the public funds, since they would in total have flowed to the national economy of EUR 400 million. Minister, I would like to remind you that with Mr Skourletis' amendment in June 2016 you reduced the regulated asset base of the National Gas System Manager, so you automatically reduced the value of the company itself. While in the recent past, with reliable energy diplomacy and political stability, we have managed to make Greece an energy hub and a destination for large investments such as TAP, SOCAR and IGB, your manipulations show a feasibility, an ignorance and a clandestineness. The TAP is undoubtedly not an acquisition of your own government, but it is a conquest of our own governance, which has given compensatory benefits, which you, I remind you, have easily voted against and then. Mr Minister, however, on the occasion of the question, I would like to ask you to answer the following questions: Firstly, why is the development of new gas infrastructures being systematically delayed, as well as the opening-up of the market? Secondly, what does it mean to you generally social policy on energy? For we, when we talk about social policy, are talking about numbers and implementation rates, so as to reduce the daily problems of citizens in cities and villages. I would like to remind you in particular that we have anticipated a billion cubic metres for the Greek market and especially for the inhabitants of northern Greece for gas. We opened three tenders for gas distribution in northern Greece, central Macedonia and Central Greece. For us, the creation of the gas pipeline initially aimed only at distributing natural gas to cities in northern Greece, because we also incorporated this into the Juncker package. But what did you do? Instead of continuing with the Juncker package, you incorporated the project into the ESRB with the various problems that are created. But, today, what measures and measures in the short, medium and long term do you intend to move forward in order to prevent such situations from recurring? What changes in the institutional framework do you intend to make to prevent distortions, which only have society? And I wonder, Minister, how can a Minister of Energy finally have so many wrong political and strategic choices in the field of renewables and energy in general?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u54	The Minister has the floor, Mr George Stathakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. I am really surprised today by the questions of the Democratic Alliance, because they suggest that in the energy sector there was a full system with national planning. We are obliged, I think, to submit the national energy plan in December 2017. I have looked a long way to find the national planning we have received from previous governments and I am still looking for it. Secondly, they suggest that there was an excellent policy in individual areas. What to do first! The PV policy? May I remind you of the explosion of the photovoltaics on Mr. Burbilis with off-site and time prices and the need for a pressing correction with the famous new deal of 2014? Is this called ‘planned development of RES’? May I remind you of the gas infrastructure? How many miles have been built useless for ten years? Where should I begin, from Central Greece? Where do you want me to start? Can I talk about the hydrocarbons policy? For the "ELDORADO" announced by Mr. Maniotis and Mr. Samaras, with the billions that would immediately enter the Greek economy from this terrible "ELDORADO"? What should we want to do first? Detectivity, lack of planning, policy without any vision of perspective, without any cohesion, institutional shortcomings. That's all we received. I now come to the main area of political and political conflict. Mr. Constantinople said so. I was listening to him, and I thought I was listening to the institutions. Are you talking together? The same arguments that I have been hearing for weeks are being said by you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u56	But I had gone earlier than you a week ago!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u57	Well, well, we won't forbid it, but let's not interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u58	So what are the same arguments? That there was the grand plan. What was the grand plan? Full privatisation of the energy sector. That was your plan and it was voted on. Full privatization of the energy sector as a whole, to leave 30% of PPC directly, the small PPC to be sold to private individuals, to be sold at the same time as 17% of PPC, so to lose the public sector any influence on the Public Power Corporation, to sell the PPC, to sell the share in ELPEs, to sell it all. That was the strategy. Yes, sir. That's a great strategy! You have a problem with numbers. We have agreed that there is another way to the energy sector, simple, understandable, understandable. The other road says the following. Obviously, markets in the energy sector need to be strengthened and we have taken a great deal of steps towards that. The country is committed and must import energy markets. Since mid-2018, therefore, the target model will be introduced, energy markets will operate in an institutional way. It's a little paradoxical. How much is PPC currently producing in the country's energy? 54%. And it's in retail 87.5%. So it produces 54% today, which is the 2020 target we held, that in 2020 PPC will produce 50% of the energy. We didn't differentiate that. PPC, if we follow your model, beyond double and triple privatisation, if we follow the "little" PPC model, in 2020 would produce approximately 25% to 30% of energy. We are now keeping PPC a key pillar, producing 50% of the energy. It is a huge difference and arithmetic is a simple one. It's very simple. On the other hand, the central problem remains, the discrepancy between its production and its retail market position, which in practice means that PPC is the main wholesaler of energy, that is, what the others produce, the private, the RES, natural gas, etc., goes and buys it all in order to be able to cover its customers. This must be changed and changed in a coordinate way. We must go safely to a system in which PPC will have a smaller market share, markets will work much better, everything will work within a regulated and institutionalised system and create a different operating framework. This is our strategy. Other solutions had to be found against this. NOME is a tool to reduce PPC's retail shares. PPC’s initiatives, too, are legitimate in reducing its shares. We are also open to discussions about any restructuring system that ensures that PPC remains a key pillar of our energy system and at the same time to have a much more regulated and competitive framework for the benefit of consumers primarily and environmentally. But let me also turn to other side effects of this fragmentary policy. As much as we discuss it, the explosion of energy poverty and the problems of increasing debts to PPC, citizens and businesses cannot be attributed to the inability of a government. There must have been many more problems, which created a pressing, both social and economic situation. And I would say very simply that in circumstances where you have a rapid deterioration, a huge recession in the Greek economy by the end of 2014 of 25% of GDP, it would be paradoxical to think that all this pressure would not be transferred to an energy sector, which is a key cost factor. And if I would add other deficits to this policy we have received, among other things, I would add the issue of industry, which has dealt with and dealt with a very pressing situation and in which the energy issue should have found ways to regulate it better and, of course, energy poverty, which is a major issue, against which the government has also supported the social invoice policy and its policy of free electricity to the poor and other individual initiatives. But let me focus on the central issues raised by the questions and on individual issues. So let's start by privatising the TECF. What did the government get? A privatization, which on two crucial points had been cancelled by the European Commission. I repeat: the European Commission, not the government. The European Commission has come and said that it must be a complete division, that it must be a producer who is only a passive shareholder. This forced a complete redeployment on the part of the company, namely, firstly, to sell a significant share of the shares that had been secured and, secondly, to become a passive shareholder. The third point was, of course, the alignment of Greek legislation with European legislation on how tariffs should be calculated. The issue was therefore raised that 68% agreed to increase tariffs was out-of-real and rationalised somewhere in the middle. So the problems were more than one and it can hardly be assumed that it was the government's job to cancel any privatisation. Today, moreover, the new round on this issue has been announced. I would like to return to the issue of hydrocarbons, which is a major strategic sector in the economy, and I want to make it clear what has been done on this issue. The first thing I wanted to say is that there is a rapid development in individual sectors of all hydrocarbons-related issues. Let me remind you that the negotiation was only closed this week, after a very tough and long period of negotiation, for the concession of the well-known Plot II with “TOTAL” and “EDISON” and ELPE. We have the signature of a draft contract, which is sent directly to the Court of Auditors and I stress this contract, because it will also be a model contract. On the basis of this convention there will be a possibility - I repeat as a model contract - of a new contract cycle that they will follow. There are known, exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in land areas (Arta, Preveza, Ioannina and northwest Peloponnese). The selected applicants have been appointed. In Arta, Preveza and North-West Peloponnese, the company ‘English PETPELAIA’ and ENERGEAN OIL AND GAS was designated as the selected applicant. The projects to be signed have been finalised and sent for preliminary review to the Court of Auditors. Also - not to go back to this - Catalo has moved on, as have the others in progress, the Patraikos Gulf, Ioannina, etc. the open door. In addition to this, there is also a large number of other developments that show the image of inertia. It is the lease agreement for Prenos, South Kavala, recently amended by Law 4409/2016. So that's where we're in the new development programme. At the same time, a comprehensive institutional framework is being prepared, which includes three things. Firstly, a definitive institutional framework, which will have covered all the gaps, which this present institutional framework has concerning the specialisation of the method of use - this is done in close cooperation with Cyprus too. Secondly, the institutional framework, which will give an entity to the company, which on behalf of the public will assume this function. I would remind you that this company has been institutionalised but is a ghost company and has no function, full growth. And the third and fundamentally, the whole fund mechanism, which will enjoy the income of generations, as has been established, will be developed with full legislation in the next few months. It is therefore a complete institutional framework, along with the adoption of all environmental conditions and other initiatives, which we have taken, which we have done and will create a safe and complete framework for the functioning of the development of hydrocarbons. I repeat: Away from us the "eldorados" and all these announcements. The measure is important, the steady steps and the need to make full use of the public interest. The issue of 'I'm saving at home' is an interesting debate. "I save at home" was a project against an area in which Greece is lagging behind. And that's energy saving. In other words, there has been significant progress, even in a distorted way, even with many problems, which are the penetration of the RES. There has been a definite delay in the issue of energy savings. I say this because the country's strategy, the current government's strategy is fully integrated into the 2020-2030 European options, as they have recently been finalised or some of their aspects will soon be finalised, with regard to both the energy mix and the objectives of the pollutants, and as they arise from the Paris Agreement and as they are specified, I repeat, in the European context in which we are moving. The main two pillars of this strategy are: One is the energy mix and penetration of the RES. The second pillar, however, is energy savings. I repeat, in this area we are talking about a wide range of interventions, which will cover all of the energy savings: obviously the 'I save at home', which will continue with a much improved framework - I can stand by it - but also include major initiatives to save energy in a wide range of activities - transport, tourism, industry, production, public buildings and a variety of other activities - which will be the second basic pillar, on which to concentrate and cover, I repeat, a gap that has been created. For "I save at home" the same applies. As you know, the first "I save at home" committed resources. There was a bad design. Because at the end of the day a percentage was covered by those who had applied for and joined the programme, but left behind a very large line of people whose plans had been approved, but they had not taken money because they did not exist. We from national resources managed to incorporate a significant number - I think six, six and a half thousand - of these people, who in the old programme, while they were in, were out of order. At the same time, we are planning a programme which, firstly, will be very simple, refresher, very competitive. It will try to minimize or reduce bank financing by finding resources that will facilitate and at the same time have an objective selection procedure as possible. So there is a development that will be activated in the first half of the year. That is what we are committed to, and that is how it will be done. I repeat, however, that there will be many additional initiatives. I turn to the issue of interconnections, which is crucial and decisive. The interconnection of Crete has two stages. One step is progressing and the project is being licensed. Crete - Peloponnese is the first priority. This will ensure a significant supply of energy from the station under construction in Megalopoli. The second stage is more important. The IPTO has guaranteed the project, but at the same time there is exceptional private interest in this project. It is under discussion to find the perfect solution. I am referring to the great work of Crete - Attica. Remind me it's not 2040, it's 2023 based on the design of IPTO. So in this area too, I repeat, there is a private interest. There will be developments - I suppose - relatively soon. The third issue of connections concerns the Cyclades. It's moving on in the first phase. The second phase will follow. In the islands, however, in cooperation with the Commission and the Commissioner, we have already made the announcement of the initiative we took together in order to have a large energy programme for the islands - thirty-two islands - we want to include in it - in the context of strong energy autonomy. This is a major initiative that aims to bring new resources and, at the same time, to be an important development for the energy problem on the islands with all the problems identified. Next June it has been decided that the relevant broad meeting and consultation will also be held at the initiative of the Commissioner and the Commission in Chania, where there will be a large meeting of all Mediterranean islands focusing on this initiative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u59	As a Cycladic I ask, what is the timetable, Minister, for the Cyclades?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u60	I look at it and I will try to recapture some of it, coming back to my original wording. I repeat that the government has clear strategic objectives. It seeks, firstly, in the context of the European choices and ambitious objectives set for 2030 and by the Paris Agreement to align and adapt all strategic choices of the country to these choices and objectives. Secondly, we are calling for a step forward - step by step and with stability to reorganise the entire energy sector, bearing in mind the need, firstly, for there to be a strong change in the energy mix of the country, so that it meets these objectives. Of course, I am referring to both the specific weight of lignite and the penetration of RES and the role of natural gas. I would remind you that today's starting point is about 1/3-1/3-1/3. This needs to be adapted to these strategic objectives. We are also called upon within the framework of the security of the system to activate the local interconnections system, and this is, of course, about the relationship with Italy and Bulgaria, as well as all the plans for cross-border interconnections of the Greek energy system, which is part of this strategy. At the same time, the strategy for the use of hydrocarbons goes through the institutional integration of the framework, as well as the re-engineering and re-engagement of procedures, so that there is better interest. So far interest, as you know, has a limited impact on all the land declared. So the next step is to reconstruct and redesign the notices in a way that will be of interest to move forward in the next step. At the same time, we are very positive about the transformation of Greece into an energy centre. We therefore have an absolute priority in all programmes. It is the LAG, AGB, Alexandroupolis, the East Med discussion. I would remind you that for East Med, not only are we not overlooking the work, but three meetings have been held between the four Italian, Greek, Cyprus and Israel Ministers and followed by another one in April. So there is a mobility in all matters relating to this area. In conclusion, I would like to say that the objectives are very clear. We shall proceed to rationalise our entire energy system. We will be creating a much more competitive environment. We will formulate strong regulatory rules. We will form a strong protection to deal with energy poverty. At the same time we will open up the entire energy market in social institutions, energy cooperatives and others, which will give new impetus to the most critical sector, which is the possibility of interconnection, production and consumption decentralised and with a model that is absolutely more environmentally friendly and consumer-friendly. This is our strategy, and I think it is a long way from the idea presented by the Democratic Integration question, whether inaction or lack of objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after taking part in the education programme of "Kissist" twenty-two students and students and two teachers from the American College of Pierce. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Parliamentary spokesman for the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr Ioannis Maniotis - who I saw keeping notes, so many interesting and interesting things to say. Mr. Manatis, would you like me to count your tritology?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u62	Let's take some time, so that I can answer the Minister's dentology. You know, ladies and gentlemen, I have a problem now. I had prepared a hard confrontation with the Minister. For example, I had prepared to tell him that it's a government of delusion, that you're on a runway, and you're counting vice versa. I was prepared to tell you that while the country is thirsty for investment, you are watering it with lies, splitting, with a society that is lumping into collective depression. I was prepared to say that we are living in a hideously intolerable reality. I was prepared to say that we live in a thick of ugliness, cynicism, incompetence and political vulnerability. I think, however, that it may be better to change it and behave in the way the citizens behave when the regimes break down. You know, when the regimes fall apart, the hardest and most effective opposition is a joke, it is to start to "root" a government, which actually seems not just based on the make news, the post-truth, but, worst of all, seems to believe it. Minister, because you said you were looking to find out if there was a strategic energy planning, I urge you to make a call to your government- appointed new president of the CAP and ask him: The CAP, the Renewable Energy Centre, for three years, in 2012, 2013 and 2014, was it or was it not the scientific consultant and the person responsible for the strategic planning of the country, which had been prepared to a full extent - I had received the analytical text and the accompanying text - and were they ready to put it on public consultation? If you haven't found it, ask your partners, because they have hidden it from you. This energy design was a very useful tool, it was done by the institutions, with the responsibility, I repeat, of the CAPE and, if they haven't given it to you, look and find out who is to blame because they are exploring you. I'll be back in details. You said something else about PPC. I accept that everything you have said is right. We've done it badly, you're making it "godly." Question: This appointed commander of PPC, Mr Panayotakis, why constantly in every public speech says that PPC is in bankruptcy and continues to say at the ECONOMIST conference: 'You know, Greek citizens, that countries do not go bankrupt when banks go bankrupt, but countries go bankrupt and when the energy sector goes bankrupt?' Does it have in mind the political model of Mr Tsipras, Venezuela and Argentina, which were really bankrupt because the respective energy sector went bankrupt there? In fact, I would like to ask you - and I would therefore ask you to answer this - why this morning the news has been widely released that your troika has asked you to sell units and that you have requested Mr Tsipras' intervention. Is that true, Minister, or isn't it? And because we are here in the national Parliament, your position obviously also involves the seriousness of the step from which this truth will be said. I shall not mention at all, ladies and gentlemen, in SYRIZA's 'golden boys', in SYRIZA's 'golden boys', those who, you know, gave IPTO an increase of EUR 20,000 per month and EUR 200,000 per month, or in the other 'golden boys' of DESCA, which alone gave them two, three administrative positions above themselves and then come to cover it with a collective decision of the Supervisory Board. These would perhaps have a political meaning - because I do not know what will happen - if society continued to believe that SYRIZA has the moral advantage. Sadly, SYRIZA has lost that. I don't know if he ever had it. I would also like to ask you this, Mr Minister. I'm glad you understand that the country can play a great geopolitical role. Listen to me, please, you fought the LPD, but it's running. IGB, the Greek-Bulgarian, you fought him, but we incorporated him into funded European programmes. East Med who connects the deposits of Israel - Cyprus with Crete - Peloponnese - Italy you fought him, but he was also included in European programs. The floating natural gas plant of Alexandroupolis, which you were across and at the local level of SYRIZA, and we incorporated it for funding. The Upgrade of Rethyssas, which we had across you, the LNG unit, we had it also okay. The electric cable, which, for the first time, connects Asia with Europe, Israel - Cyprus - Crete - Attica, was integrated into the PCIs, the funding programmes of the European Union, and that is what you were against. To give you, Mr President, an indirect answer to your question about the Cyclades. We launched the electrical interconnection of the Cyclades. The corresponding contract with the European Investment Bank had already been signed with my presence. The program is in progress. I hope that the current government does not destroy even this. Why did I read to you, ladies and gentlemen, these pipelines? They are some large, great pipelines that upgrade the country. SYRIZA has been ruling two years. Is there even an extra project he did? I mentioned seven geostrategic upgrade projects in the country that we handed over. My dear Minister, can you tell me one or half new work you brought to support the country? I now come to the issue of Eldorado. I liked what the Minister said about oil. I haven't used it as an expression. Mr President, please, I do not know if the Conference of Presidents has been informed that I have been putting a question every Friday for ten weeks to Prime Minister Tsipras to tell us what is going on with this important issue of hydrocarbons research. Evidently Mr. Tsipras prefers to take part in the 'Levent day', only to reply to Mr. Leventis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u63	There has been a protest from your representative, Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u64	I'm glad. I hope that this protest will also have a practical effect on the behaviour of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, do you see that? Mr. Minister, do you see that? It is an extract from the February issue of "Greek Petroleum", ELPE. Three days ago, it was released. The ELPEs - the one appointed by you two years ago's administration - have an article. I'll testify for you to be informed. The title of the article is "Greece, you have oil". And the ELPE continues: “Under the endless blue of the Patras Gulf there is black gold, untouchable and of great value. By exploiting the last word of technology and fully respecting the environment, the ELPE Group has undertaken to locate and bring it to the surface.’; You know, this is the contract you voted against, and you and all of SYRIZA, when I brought it to Parliament in October 2014, and you accused us of selling national wealth. What's he saying here? They say that the ELPEs, ladies and gentlemen, and those of us who are listening to us, are saying that only one plot, from that of the Patraikos, will the country's annual income be EUR 150,000 000. Mr. Minister, do you know how many "Patranics" have all Greece, when assessing the experts? At least ten, and that's why we called the competitions, with your disagreement. Does this or does it not recommend a proposal to support the winter national economy? I'm presenting the report for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Because you want to play a communication game again today, I just read that because SYRIZA and the SYRIZA government are attractive to invest. Total's coming in, it comes 'EDISON'. Mr Minister, the proposal, the offer of 'TOTAL' and 'EDISON' took place in our competition before you take over. You take out a competition of yours, to see what the credibility of today's government is and how many investors it will attract. I'm tabling this for the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm on the subject of the D.C.D. There's a problem here. The government has to do it with itself. It is ready for an international convention, which was in progress, 66% of the ETUC at 'SOCAR' and in the Italian 'SNAM'. We all knew. The market knew it, and the accredited journalists who watched the alleged. At the initiative of Mr Skourletis, the competition is being cancelled, it is being dissolved and, obviously, the strategic relationship with Azerbaijan is being dismantled. I read today that the TEAD decided yesterday to reopen 66%, so the same percentage again for the DASF. Minister, the EUR 400,000, guaranteed in the previous competition, would have entered the national economy. If your competition gets even 1 euros below the EUR 400,000, 000, which was the official offer, the responsibilities will not only be political. Consider it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u65	It's gonna be criminal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u66	I come to the last, most important. Because you are talking about committees of inquiry and you like them, and because Mr Tsipras likes the Committees of Inquiry, and today we have heard of another examination, do one, the one we proposed, about how the country went from 2000 to 2016. Do this only if you have the political courage, to say it all, to bring everything to transparency. I'm coming to PPC. Its stock exchange value was 2.5 billion in 2014 and today is 0.6 billion. Because you're also a professor of finance, Minister, to remind you of something I don't know if you've followed it. In the spring of 2014 PPC comes out for two bonds in the air, one of 200,000,000 and one of 500,000,000 and takes them at a very good interest rate. Can you tell me today, if PPC publishes a bond, how much interest will it borrow? Why? The answer is being given indirectly by something else. It is given by the demand of the four Greek banks, which, in order to lend 200,000 euros to PPC, require contracts of up to 300,000 euros. Never in the history of PPC and never in the history of a large company of the Greek State had required Greek or foreign banks to be granted future claims by customers. This is where the current government of PPC became. To finish with this story, the "little" PPC said something simple. Masmo d'Alema said so. I guess you'll remember him. He is the former Communist Social Democrats Prime Minister of Italy, who thus made the privatisation of ENEL. You know, it's this door to social democracy, which you keep hitting, but it's never going to open, because you have no ideological and political relationship with social democracy. What did D'Alema do? It took 30% of 'ENEL', gave it to the air, took all the money, invested in the rest of 70% and opened new roads to 'ENEL'. It doubled its turnover. He went to forty countries. What did we do? The "little" PPC. 30% in competition, for there to be competition in tariffs, for the citizen to have two good competitors to have a cheaper invoice. And all the money from these, 30%, goes to "ma" PPC. A total benefit for the national economy, ECU 3 billion, will be provided by the European Investment Bank (EIB) and the European Investment Bank (EIB) (EIB). PPC, ECU 1.5 billion For the market, ECU 1.5 billion has been allocated to the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of a new plant for the construction of Thirty percent, then, pays 5 billion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What did you do, Minister? Give 50%, half of PPC - not "little" PPC - with 0 euros. Zero! Why in the question, the previous ones gave 30% and took 5 billion dollars, you who give 50%, how many billions do you get, what's the answer? I reply directly to you, ladies and gentlemen: zero! This, in your view, is what it recommends?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u67	I hope that we will also have the Minister's answer to that, because it is not simple what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u68	We'll come back to what I said. We have secondary and tritology. Here we go! And hang up with Mr. Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u69	But close it, Mr. Maniotis, because tolerance is overtaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u70	Yes, Mr. President. Mr Tsipras yesterday invited Mr Kamine to Maximou and told the Athenian citizens "I will do great things" - Minister, because you are also the Minister of Planning and Spatial Planning - and he has announced various interventions in Attica. Because, obviously, Mr. Tsipras is a citizen of the Municipality of Athens and does not know the basics of his municipality, I am tabling for the Minutes the Regulatory Plan of Athens - Attica, which has in place and the development proposals for the entire Attica basin, which SYRIZA voted against. For the Minutes, I also present the joint ministerial decision of seventeen Ministers of our own government, which have the plan for the integrated urban renewal of the Athens Centre, without Mr Tsipras showing that he knows that even in fact. And finally, I submit to the Minutes and draft law for the upgrading of abandoned buildings, the thousands of eight hundred abandoned buildings in the centre of Athens, which have been sprinkling in the drawers of the Ministry of the Environment and Energy for two years. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I hope, at least, that these remarks were extremely useful to a government that has an obligation, for as many days as it governs the country, to assume historical responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u71	In any case, there seems to be no cormorants in Wade, Mr Maniatis, because double refreshment with the signature of an open city has been cancelled, no matter whether after seven years the Council of State has justified the then municipal authority. And now we're going to make a court in the incubator of the Municipality of Athens, to take out thousands of trees, thanks to the cormorants, who I don't know if anyone's seen them in the Botanic.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u72	We agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u73	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Ioannis Sifakis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it really gives rise to the time chosen by the Democratic Compact to present this question and not because the energy issues are not very serious and do not need discussion and exchange of views at the National Representation. Not at all! [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] It is also very useful to highlight the different policies, the main contradictions, the attempt on the one hand to safeguard the public character of basic infrastructure in universal human rights and social good - let us not forget that it is energy - and, on the other, to subject ourselves to specific interests and the entanglement of violent privatizations. It is, however, surprising that at the time of negotiation with the lenders, exactly when the government of the country is struggling to complete the second assessment and to close the loose ends that still exist, some of which concern energy issues - now end - the opposition has chosen to bring back issues, finalised in July 2015, for the so-called "little" PPC and the persistence and persistence - I would say - in reasonable privatisations, even where it can actually be exploited, in the interests of the public interest. We are saying this at the same time that the government, as the Minister mentioned earlier in his first speech, has specific results - despite very difficult conditions - on all energy fronts, trying to deal with delays and the effects of a long-term and long-term energy planning of many years and, of course, in conditions of rapid change in energy internationally. Honestly, if Mr Denktash says so, given his neoliberal ideas that we all know where they lead and where they lead Europe, we must understand that. This is the ideology of his party and the European People's Party that is involved. However, to lead Mr Maniotis and the Democratic Assent at this time of negotiation, fighting within Parliament for the reintroduction to the agenda of finalised issues imposed on the governments by the creditors and the current government managed to walk otherwise in the negotiation, that is a great deal. Mr. Mitsotakis accuses us of ideologies in labour and collective bargaining, while Mr. Maniotis for ideas on safeguarding the public character of basic energy infrastructure. Rather, if we gave it all up, as they did, then only we would not have any ideals. And they also become honourers, because the government manages to salvage the public character of strategic tools for productive reconstruction, such as the high-voltage networks - IPTO - and because there is a great effort to get 17% of PPC into the over-exploitation facility, instead of staying at the HIPI and driving for immediate sale, and even in the current situation, which is certain to be sold half-price. They therefore had to make a hard self-critic about their governments' policy, because for their days the distortions in the energy market were giving and receiving, and because they created a huge debt crisis problem for PPC too, by taking the basis for the excessive increase in the due amount of their customers' debts, and to the private producers of RES. They had to make self-criticism for the policies of the new deal, the new photovoltaic stock exchange, when construction prices were in the god, just to serve the interests of certain chambers and others around the governments, creating the huge deficits of the special account that we are still fighting to balance. They had to make self-criticism for the policy of graceful arrangements to the oligopoly of natural gas producers with various mechanisms, for the policy that systematically took care of PPC's depreciation, identifying it exclusively with lignite production, so that it would be an easy objective given the international environmental protection trends and a substantial ban on it being resolutely banned from entering the RES and/or gas market. Instead of making self-criticism over decades in hydrocarbons research, for policies where oil smuggling has become a party with incalculable effects on public finances, they are today also coming to a government of a total of two years, which, in the midst of the most serious economic crisis of the last decades and in the midst of a commission, is fighting for the stability of energy supply, for the smooth entry into conditions of complete liberalisation of the energy market, but also for the creation of a new energy policy, with the aim of reducing the cost of energy for households and businesses, and the promotion of energy investments that will result in a multiplier effect on the economy. The security of the public character of IPTO by the agreement passed in August 2015. Withdrawal of the project of "small" PPC, i.e. the sale of 30% of lignite and hydroelectric plants fully depreciated - especially in northern Greece - and their replacement by NOMEs with which an equivalent result can be achieved, but without losing the ownership of PPC's units, laws that can be achieved, as evidenced by interest and prices in the first tenders. The attempt to transfer 17% of PPC to the supermarket for recovery and not necessarily for sale by the GOI. The non- favor of the Government for privatising the PPA since it does not mean that the State does not receive any revenue from the sale of natural gas and from ELPEs with the impressive results obtained by public management. The completion in 2017 of the 3rd tank of liquefied natural gas in Revithousa. The change in the EIA support scheme so that sustainable investments are as well as to protect the consumer and their further development with ambitious targets for 2020 as well as for 2030. Let me remind you that this is the first time that we have had an approved support mechanism for renewable energy sources. Over the years we have not had any approved support mechanism from the European Commission, so we cannot get any extensions, and so ten months could not be signed for electricity sales contracts with subsequent market effects. Let me also remind you of the second competition for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons in twenty maritime areas in Ionian and southern Crete, but also the competition in land areas that are progressing - of course with delays, but which are always delaying - for the benefit of the public interest. I would also remind you of the reopening of the 'Security' with the necessary adaptations based on the experience of the first phase, the harmonisation of Greek legislation by incorporating the Energy Efficiency Directive and the decision to address any distortions in the electricity market by completing the relevant reform, so as not to present any problems in the mechanism for determining quantities of imports and exports, which, in addition, played their part in the recent energy crisis, as well as the need to take measures by producers for alternative supplies of production units even if not provided for in their permits, the start of the vital Net Metering that we hope will start until June for farmers and, as the Minister for Rural Development said, will be part of the programmes for improving the rural development programme. All these policies therefore represent a substantial change in the model in the energy market in the interests of the country and the final consumer. Expansions of the natural gas network within the country - direct and future - contribute substantially to the isopolitical process, with the possibility of every citizen having equal access to cheaper and less polluting fuel. The gradual reduction in lignite production by applying anti-pollution technology to the new plants, which replace some of the old ones which also pollute but also produce little efficiency, and the increase in the penetration of RES by all technologies, is the direction, in substance, of strengthening the position of PPC Renewables within the RES. Strengthening domestic added value in production and promoting production in whole or in part technology for energy and our country are important demands that require our attention. The question we are debating today, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, demonstrates the ideological obsession and passive acceptance by our predecessors of the entrepreneurials of the lenders of the country, shows the deadlocks of those who brought us here with their policies, which only aimed to serve specific interests. And they are the same who have destroyed the country's productive base, which created a million additional unemployed, who have laid the foundations of energy poverty that experiences a significant part of our people and which we have to stop with the social invoice, with new regulations, with discounts for those who pay on time and keep the regulations properly, with a strategic economic development plan that will bring the country and society into regularity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u75	You're done properly, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u76	In seconds, Mr. President. The generalized catastrophe from the Opposition and the interconnected media falls day after day into void, no matter irony, no matter where Mr Maniotis is being retired here today. At the same time, the question will have this question, which alone did beyond the filing of credentials by some to the lenders at the time of the negotiation, was to give us the opportunity to remind the Greek people of our actions, our programming and our clear differences from the old political system and the energy sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr George Lazarides has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mr Colleague, for your understanding. Before I begin, I would like to say, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that I have heard the representative of the Democratic Integration, who has said real interesting things to which the Minister will be listening. But he was very aggressive, and within so many things he said, he let it be understood that the Democratic Partnership was doing so well. Democratic Reconciliation is the new name. The old name of PASOK. And I say. Since the party is so proud of his past, why did he change his name? When a shop goes well, you don't change the name of the shop. Instead, you're lighting it up more so people can see it better. Since you were so proud, why did you change it into a Democratic Compact? Why? You changed it because you have the responsibility for the country's destruction. That's the reality. For what we are experiencing today, to the greatest extent you and the New Democracy are responsible for the Samara - Venizelos period.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u79	Karamanlis from the outside?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u80	Sure. But Karamanlis is entitled to the numbers, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u81	You guys are caramanlic.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u82	And I am addressing the New Democracy colleagues by telling them - I have tabled my complaint - that they have not defended any fora during the Karamanlis period. In any case, however, the figures justify him, because at the time Greece had the highest growth rates from all over the Eurozone and what it tried to do, what it did at the time, the country was to pay the loans from the Simitis period. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Why? Wait a minute. What period was it? During the Semite period, didn't it? What became the stock exchange scandal? The case with the Olympic Games that from 6.7 billion came to cost 45 billion, wasn't it from PASOK? But I'm still asking a question and let it be rhetoric if you want. Since you are so proud of your past, why didn't you leave the name 'PASOK' to know what the world has in front of it, and you changed it and made it democratic? To hide reality. It's usually like that. You know who's got a lot of names, usually out there on the street. Anyway, I used my half-year. It was even your period when you put us in the IMF. Mr President, you have already made a reference to bonds, etc., and I remembered George Papaconstantinou. After the Karamanlis period - and confirmed by what I'm about to say, how well the economy was going at the time - the spreads for Greece were in the height of Germany or even lower than Germany. And then Papaconstantinou came out abroad and said that Greece is "TITANIKOS" and travels rapidly towards the iceberg. He did everything possible to upload the spreads so the country can't borrow. And then he chose the idyllic Kastelorizo to put us in the IMF! Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of a coordinated plan, our country integrates environmental priorities into its energy policy, focusing on the development of RES, gas penetration, energy savings and energy efficiency with environmentally compatible actions. We have a great deal of potential, but the energy sector in our country has its own peculiarities. Let's go to PPC first. Lignite holds the highest percentage of the Greek energy system and must be supported, because it is a key element in the security of energy supply, in the independence of the country from imported fuels, in improving the trade balance, as well as in the employment and development of local communities. PPC's contribution as a single and public body to the post-war production of the country and the evolution of the industry is huge. In fact, lignite is the most important energy fuel for the Greek economy. After all, the electricity of the country and to a large extent its economic development has been based on it. Unfortunately, however, the PASOK governments and then PASOK - New Democracy used PPC to serve their customer interests and at the end they repudiated it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President. I'll be done in a minute. In the past fifteen years, the political system has pursued a policy of depreciation of lignite, in order to promote the consumption of natural gas in electricity, by changing the balances in energy policy, at a time when natural gas in our country is considered to be one of the most expensive among the countries of the European Union, and while it is delaying the extraction and exploitation of the real rich natural gas deposits south of Crete, which could guarantee us energy adequacy and economic prosperity. The previous government had legislated "little" PPC. What did that mean? It meant that 30% of the company's production capacity would be allocated to private individuals and at the same time 17% of the 51% that the state has, would be allocated to the privatisation package of the GOI. These two were the previous government's strategy on PPC. Reducing its production capacity by 30% and losing the majority of the public. With mathematical accuracy PPC was delivered without any flexibility or anything else in a shrinkage at the level of production. With its policy, the present Government annulled PPC and introduced a mechanism that enables PPC's suppliers and competitors to open up the retail market, including to open up competition because of European policy and all those that did not take place in previous years. This does not mean, however, that parallel support measures must be stopped. In this context PPC's investments focus on replacing old and polluting power plants with modern and more efficient, which will significantly reduce emissions in line with the spirit of the European Union. And because it seems that we are going to live with lignite for a long time - and rightly so - we need to promote projects to upgrade the environment, infrastructure and development, so that the country faces any adverse effects, but also to ensure working normality and jobs in the private sector in the regions of western Macedonia. I had other things to say, but I'm going to stop here, so I don't misuse the time and kindness of colleagues. I'll wait for the Minister's answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, too. Mr Nicholas Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, please speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u85	What's the objection, exactly?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u86	When we reach an agreement to precede a party towards others, we should consult everyone. The consultation took place between ANELs and the New Democracy and bypassed all other parties. New Democracy should speak in position...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Comrade, excuse me. You may be right. I didn't know. I went up to the Step now after that consultation. But I think that with a relative tolerance and goodwill, the world is not gone now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u88	I would like to point out this because the conciliation has taken place between them. Can't in a tail come the last one in front and stay back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u89	Okay, you're right about that. Anyway, let's move on. Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to raise this issue, but, as the debate has evolved, I am obliged to do so. I am referring first of all to the position of my dear colleague, Mr Constantinople, but also to the last exchange of views here, in relation to the period 2004-2009, between the Government of New Democracy and the government of Kostas Karamanlis. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be aware of this. I understand the needs of the PASOK, the Democratic Alliance, to sanctified any past of George Papandreou, after his return to the Democratic Asylum, in PASOK. From this, however, to the point of attempting to alter the periods as a whole, I think there is a very long distance. To be clear and informed, we have an absolute quantitative and qualitative measurement of the impact of the Karamanlis period. There is the position of the former Prime Minister, Mr Simitis. Because if we're talking about positioning executives, like Yannis Papathanasiou, of the then government, you'll say they're unreliable. And they're looking at something less than 30 billion. It was about 24, 25, 26 billion. The rest - in order to reach 120 billion - was to meet the commitments of the period of the Simitis governments. That is the case and there is no other doubt. Anyone who does not dispute this, I would ask you very much for this: there is wherever Mr Ignatiou's book is sold. The book by Mr. Ignatios contains all the telegrams and documents of the period since 2007, which warned Mr. George Papandreou about the economic situation of the country. I am not talking about the invitation from the then Prime Minister, Kostas Karamanlis, in March 2009 at the Maximos Mansion, to whom he told him where we are and asked him for support, so that we, New Democracy, could take the measures. I refer to the multiple warnings from all official lips, in writing, to George Papandreou, before even taking over the government of the country. These result, first of all, from a series of telegrams by the then American Ambassador, Mr Spockhardt to Washington, where he explicitly wrote what he said to George Papandreou and what measures George Papandreou had to take in view of the takeover of the country's government, because it was obvious that PASOK would then win the elections. So, ladies and gentlemen, coming back now and saying 'do it', 'do it', 'do it other', 'not our fault', is not serious. And can I tell you something? In any case, in a simple phrase, the whole concept of the Papandreou government is embodied in what could be done in the country at that time. I would remind you of the two magical words 'there are money'. These are not forgotten. They'll never be forgotten. And if you want, in any case, to have this conversation, to do it at any time, in whatever context you want. First of all, I would like to say that I do not believe in examinations, so that we can be informed. And you know very well that a process that leads to twenty-five different findings, with twenty-five different considerations, is not a solution. Make a public debate? It's done. We have nothing to fear. I think, however, that George Papandreou, as a member of the PASOK now, of the Democratic Partnership, would be advisable at some point to assume his responsibilities vis-à-vis the Greek society. His victimization that, supposedly, some previous evils are to blame and that he has calmed the cross of the testimony, I don't think he can withstand any logic. In any case, we do not want to tolerate it. There's something else that we didn't like and I want to say that. Kostas Karamanlis doesn't need the defense from the ANELs. My fellow Member, the Parliamentary spokesman for ANELs, understand why he is trying - and he is not the only one - to put his party under the wider range of caramanism. There is no need for such additions to caramanism. To be informed. We have clear positions. The ANELs have burgled their relations with centre-rights, as we understand it, with the tradition of Kostas Karamanlis, with the tradition of Constantine Karamanlis. And only their attitude in 2015 in the referendum in which the fate of the country was cast and we almost all went to the cliff, that's enough. We don't have to say anything else. So Kostas Karamanlis does not need late supporters. You don't have to. This role is played by the New Democracy party, which is its party, which supports both its fascination and anything else it needs. Thank you very much, we won't take anything else. If they want to offer something at the place, there's something very simple they can do. To stop voting for the legislation of the present government and to send it, in any case, where it belongs. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I come to the rest of the year on questions. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, first of all with regard to the general context in which you were placed before, there is a reality. The reality is that you have not shown any new important work in the debate on this subject all the time. Mr. Maniot told you. Nothing. What, as a government, have you offered throughout this debate? Let's get the big picture. The big picture is to make the country an energy hub. What is this government's contribution to this? We'd like you to tell us sometime, if you want. As far as your management is concerned. As far as the DESCA is concerned, you canceled a contest. Very nice. We didn't get the 400 million. You're reopening him. Can you tell me what design this is, so we can figure it out? As far as PPC is concerned, you reported that you did not follow the design of PPC "small". That cannot stand up to common sense. I would understand the position if you said, "No to "little" PPC we keep the great PPC in its entirety, with all its activities." However, to reject the 30% ‘little’ PPC to limit PPC's supposedly large PPC to 50%, by handing the remaining 50% without any remuneration, can you explain to us what makes sense, so that we, too, can understand it by identifying us, neoliberals? To understand that, too. For hours - any political analysis also runs counter to the common perception of average human beings. What you're telling us doesn't stand anywhere. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As far as I am concerned, Mr President, and I am finishing, Mr President, because I abused the time - the situation of PPC is bad. I am presenting the question that our present sectoral, Mr. Skrekas, had done in November 2016, which clearly explained, with figures, the deadlocks facing PPC. It faces a risk of bankruptcy on a confession and of its administration that you have appointed. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Dendias, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If you read Mr. Screka's question, you will see that he tells you a simple thing. In 2014, PPC had profits of more than 100 million. In 2015, PPC had losses of more than 100 million. What changed in this year? The whole crisis occurred in 2015? So we can figure out a little bit what's going on. And all this, of course, while oil prices are under $50 a barrel. Minister, you are relatively new to the Ministry, so you have the luxury of not having personal responsibility. And we don't personally have anything to count on you. It's not personal. I'm sorry to tell you that, unfortunately, the government ship is being taken to the shipwreck as a whole and collectively. It is our hope that the shipwreck will only concern the government and not the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr. Treasury. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to this House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how to organise and operate the House and toured in the exhibition of the "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS", thirty-six students and students and four teachers from the 3rd Eukarpia Municipal School of Thessaloniki and the Municipal School of Ano Castritsi Achaias. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] It's Mr. Hajisavva's turn to speak. But since the Minister has to go to a teleconferencing, we'll give him the floor. If he leaves, Mr. Famelos will be in his place. Here, Mr Stathakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u92	I think that from the positions, it has shown that there is a relative retreat in the criticism of total failure and is now focusing - I am referring to the whole of the things I mentioned in my speech - on the country's energy strategy, on the European context, on how the country moves, a step in this direction, on our policy on hydrocarbons and on many others. So I assumed from the position of the spokesman of the New Democracy and from Mr. Maniotis, that obsession and insistence are that what would be nice that PPC would be today if we had sold 30% in 2015 I think. And I would like to directly ask you questions concerning PPC itself. So the government came in 2016 and automatically PPC collapsed! That's an excellent economic theory. First, what was PPC's investment plan and how was it decided? Secondly, what was PPC’s lending, and how was it attempted, to deal with this short-term loan of 200 million and 500 million bonds you mentioned? We're talking about short-term borrowing, two, three years old. Very healthy business you had built! Third, where did the five billion come from? You remind me the Greek, that it would bring us 6 billion, etc. What is the arithmetic of the units that you would privatize? Fourthly, PPC was faced with a strong problem of adapting to a new and transitional reality, adapting to the rules of an energy market. What standard and institutional framework was the operation of this energy market ensured? These are given, the paradox must be dealt with backwards. I repeat that the commitment of the New Democracy and the Democratic Integration - and the New Democracy does not surprise me - was clear: privatization of the entire energy sector over the next three years. That was politics. I repeat, the New Democracy understands it, creates no surprise at all. Why does the Democratic Reconciliation break its clothes for the full privatization of the entire energy sector? This really must be a wonder, you should explain it to us sometime. Secondly, you are coming back to the DESCRIP without any argument at all. Nor did Skourletis make any decisions that the Commission made and no Greek player made these decisions. The Azeres had to sell a mandatory share and sold to Italy, which did not participate in the initial tender. The Azeres had to be a passive shareholder, it's not our decision. If the problem emerged, as you say, from the fact that 68% of tariff increases are unrealistic for European data and it became 35% or 37%, if that was the cause of the problem in privatisation, you should know that there were also strong negotiations to have some individual corrections. This difference, any impact - I repeat marginally, privatization has not been determined by this - will be improved. The problems therefore emerged at other levels and in other procedures and had to do with the nature of privatisation, the way it was announced and whether it was compatible with European data or not. So away from us, this debate and the search for responsibilities and even criminals if the price of privatisation that will arise in the future - I assure you that it will be higher and better - will be within the planning or not of this government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u93	I wish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u94	I close by saying this: the energy sector will change and change from the point of view of things. PPC’s shares in the retail market will be derelict. I repeat, it is one of the last two countries where we have a retail market with this structure and with these procedures. I think that PPC will be able to systematically and methodically restructure and adapt to this new environment. It is really a challenge - and I mean it - that you in Parliament show catastrophic perceptions of a company that has these characteristics, this size and this strategy, which will be adapted, and theories of PPC's collapse, of its inability to finance and dozens of other disaster theories, which unfortunately part of the counterpopulation has been identified with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Manatis, you have a three-minute period for tertiary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u98	I don't want the Minister to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u99	After he's gone, what do we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u100	I want to ask him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor for just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u102	Minister, because you will leave, please ask me your answer from now on to a simple question: Have you agreed with Tsipras Memorandum PPC going down to 49.5% of customers and electricity production in Greece? You're obviously proud of that. It's your right. The question is this: You signed up as Minister of Development in the TDIDE programme in May 2016, which said, in addition, that apart from 50%, we are giving the private sector another 17% and that is why you signed a signature that you would hire a consultant to sell another 17% of PPC, that is 50% to sell another 17% and reach 36%? This commitment of the government did not exist in the 'little PPC' - in order to get together - because the privatisation of 'little PPC' was annulled all other privatizations because it completely opened the market. With your choice, the additional 17% sale of PPC continues to exist? In other words - to do so - in the new programme, which will obviously be signed these days by TIADED, in the TIADE programme, will there continue to be a commitment by the Greek Government that 17% of PPC will be sold?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u103	In fact, the question is clear, Mr Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u104	There is nothing ahead of half PPC the sale of 17%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u105	The question has been given sufficient reason. Minister, would you like to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u106	I think that we are also placed for 17%, which I repeat that your government has had it in the privatisation programme. We have a specific strategy for this area. We believe that the major part will go to the superstition, together with the TIADE as a whole, this is the evolution and strategy in the coming months. I think the process of recruiting consultants will continue. From that point on, the consultants will judge all the alternatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u107	Mr Christos Hadjisavvas from the People's Association - Golden Dawn has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. We also lived in the choir today, the caramanlics of the ANLL, in conflict with the Samarians of the PASOK and the New Democracy. The world knows very well, however, that in the previous elections, when it voted New Democracy in the polls, the Venizelos government came out. He knows very well now that he will vote again New Democracy, he will come out first party, but government will do again with SYRIZA. The debate is, in fact, about privatizations and delays in these procedures. I hear arguments from both sides, a lot and a lot. I would like to hear from those who are in favour of demilitarisation, however, because our public enterprises are in economics and cannot produce wealth, but they want to buy them by foreign companies, which they see as interesting, and many of these foreign companies are also public. That is to say, public enterprises from other states want to buy our own. Did they take them in very poor amounts from the divestment mechanisms that all the Memorandum parties created with your vote? Are they or can they be profitable and should we do them for the benefit of the Greeks? Why sell our wealthy sources to private individuals? The private sector will be the sole aim of over-profit, without paying attention to local society, health, working conditions and, of course, the environment. Stop treating energy as a commodity. A social asset is necessary and necessary and you should ensure that all Greeks have access to it. But not because, by order of the loan sharks, even PPC's accounts are a tax-supporting raid for the service of burdensome and illegal borrowing. It imposes on the eleven charges that a PPC account that goes to the Greek citizen to pay only three related to actual consumption and PPC. All the rest are irrelevant. You don't care that children and families are cold, you don't care about shutting down businesses, just paying instalments to agreements that their creators, in turn, know they're doomed to fail. On the other hand, fuel smuggling rises. The input-output system only catches or prevents small fish, the big ball becomes at sea - you all know it. So you exaggerate the lawmakers to take out the broken ones. All offices closed in prefectures like Kilkis, Serres, Edessa. In Kilkis in particular, there is no open office because of the price difference with Skopje. So if two tanks load from the Refinery of Thessaloniki, the Diavatas, and one stop at the Evzoons - at an ideal station because I told you that they have closed down, there are no stations - and the other continues three kilometers in and goes to Skopje have a 50-60-minute price difference, which is the difference in taxation. We are now continuing as a country to import electricity from Turkey, Albania, Bulgaria, Skopje. PPC has even established a subsidiary in Turkey and will call - it says - consumers! - to close their electrical appliances. This is in response to the Congressman of the Golden Dawn. It is essentially the dreadful strategy and the serious planning of the state! Now, for the savings he says to call on the citizens, although we know that many times they download the switch to close the forgotten devices, so that many household appliances have a problem and are not even recognised by guarantees. First of all, we have to start from here to Parliament. Right now, and every day, the heating is in the full house at all the offices and all the committees. Even in plenary we can't stand the heat, because the heat is in full. I have succeeded on the National Road Mr. Chironis, when he was Minister of the Environment, with the Prius hybrid driving effectively. He passed me three times a hundred miles. - I was going a hundred miles. - because he also made stops at the National and at the same time had two accompanying cars, one thousand eight hundred cubics and the other two and a half thousand cubics of security. So his ecological driving with Prius goes for a walk. The question of individuals selling electricity is cheaper than PPC is unacceptable. PPC is out of competition and, in the past, private individuals who have received money from consumers have not paid it where we all know that, have been involved as their lawyers. On the subject of hydrocarbons, we have fortunately taken a step forward and are talking, on the basis of the fact that there are finally hydrocarbons, there is oil and gas in Greece, because we had the other problem. As long as we had no memos, we had neither oil and natural gas nor anything else. A few months after the PASOK brought the first Memorandum and George Papandreou, while from this Step of the House said that it is conspiracy of any reference to them, it turns it suddenly by extending the restrictions from the Cooper Treaty to the memoranda, they appeared and became the purpose of life, not, of course, mining for the benefit of the Greek nation, but their divestment. If Turkey is, of course, allowed to do so, because it actually wants the Greek exclusive economic zone and mining as a cause of war. The European Union's Committee on Energy Security is coming along and has equal distances from a country - a member of the European Union, namely Greece, in relation to a third state, Turkey, the'small of Asia', as Horton, the Consul of the United States in 1922 in Izmir, the'sex of Allah', as Turkey itself is saying at the moment that it will declare a sacred war on Europe's infidels and other such fairy tales. By the way, today is 17 March. On March 17, 1821, the uprising took place in the Aeropoli. At the same time, within the Greek Parliament, there are Greek MPs who are calling for a referendum in Thrace on Sharia. It is therefore a one-way road to our survival as a nation and scientists need to be created in relation to energy. To extract natural gas and oil, to provide cheap fuel to farmers for production, to give cheap heating to the Greeks, to give cheap fuel to processing companies. However, these cannot be done by moratoriums under the rule of law. Only a strong nationalist patriotic government will be able to do so. So, until then, the only service you can offer to the nation is to do absolutely nothing! Leave in the sacred Greek land our wealth that guards millions of years and guards it until there is a Greek state again with economic and national independence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, from the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. I will be tempted to comment on what the government has been offering today on the Prime Minister's time. It offered spectacles and indeed poor things, but without bread, much more when the government itself negotiates to further cut the bread of the people's families. A new committee of inquiry to investigate health scandals. Of course, scandals, but these scandals are a child of the system and the conflict and the competition between multinationals are also the reason why these scandals come out. A rival and an antagonism for who will strengthen his position and which multinational will come out of the game. Of course, there were scandals and there was a waste of health. However, in his name of restricting this waste and the current government has promoted further trade in health. A characteristic example of the medicine, where the state and the insurance funds between 2009 and today paid 57% less and at the same time the insured paid 43% more. We are going to say yes to this examination without delusion. Of course, the debate on the question of the Democratic Integration on energy, which also confirmed the controversy between the parties that preceded it and the debate, showed a very characteristic issue, namely that they too were confined to a fragmentation of energy issues, examples of right and left. And they did this precisely to exacerbate the confrontation, but at the same time also to cover up their agreement, an agreement in the strategic framework and the one that defines the strategic framework, which is nothing but the pursuit of the ruling order for Greece to be transformed into an energy hub, and, secondly, the policy that has been implemented over the past twenty years for the liberalisation of the energy sector, a European Union policy. Kuveda has not been said about these issues, about the policy of liberalisation of energy, about privatisation, which has followed and what the result has been. It is precisely because the current government and the previous one are implementing the European Union's plans, the strategic choices of capital to liberalise the sector, the introduction of overcompensated capital in this sector, the privatisation of energy. And from this point of view, it is clear that this is the one project. The second project, which everyone accepts, is that Greece must be transformed into an energy hub, and of course, the pipelines that are chosen, not by accident, by the former governments of the New Democracy - PASOK, but also by the current ones, are the pipelines that serve Euro-Atlantic interests. That is why the American Energy Minister - and the previous and today - is visiting every region, precisely to impose the specific designs and pipelines at a time when conflicts, competitions and conflicts about the networks, pipelines and energy sources are exacerbated in the wider region. Greece is becoming increasingly involved in the bucket of these competitions, imperialist designs, creating conditions for the expansion of war conflicts and in the wider region and any risks. Of course, there is also a common agreement on the use of energy wealth, the country's energy sources. The example of the use of hydrocarbons is characteristic. What the Government of New Democracy and PASOK has done continues. So what did he do? The previous government has proceeded to set plots without defining the EEZs, creating and leaving open the claims made by Turkey in the Aegean and not just by creating a committee that operates as a fake, which cannot control it, simply as a multi-ethnic manuscript for divestment. What were the results of these policies, liberation policies and privatisation? They are characteristic and undeniable. Consequence first on the energy mix. We have a very expensive energy mix and even from imported sources, such as the use of natural gas. Secondly, energy security and the risks it poses, when the networks have not developed, when the energy networks have not been maintained, and more so when the country's energy security depends on imports. And we are talking about a country with enormous wealth in terms of energy sources. Impact on workers in the sectors. Intensification of working patterns, reductions in wages, overturning in labour relations. PPC's public control now has a general pattern of contract workers. Impact four on people's households: a report published very recently ten days ago, if I'm not mistaken, what does it show? That from 2005 to 2015 the electricity price in Greece increased by 157%. Between 2005 and 2015 there was a 157% increase in the price of electricity paid by people's households. This increase is time-consuming and marks the policies that have been pursued. It is a result of the governments' political choices, precisely to ensure the profitability of business groups active in the energy sector. Of course, this fact is not a Greek peculiarity. Look at the other countries of the European Union. In Great Britain, which recently came out of the European Union with Brexit, there was a 142% increase in electricity prices at the same time. There was an increase in electricity prices in Spain of 110%. Here are the consequences of the liberalized European Union in the field of energy. But to take another example, when we talk about energy poverty, which in Greece is plagued by about 30% of the people's households, in Germany last year, the electricity was cut off to thirty-three thousand people. In other words, they live without a current of thirty - one thousand families in Germany, and that is where they are cut off when they owe a hundred euros. These examples appear to be the President of PPC S.A., who, in his last hearing in the House, dared to say that in order to be able to cope with the great debts to PPC, we will make use of the collector companies or even divest these debts in the various funds. This is the result of your own policies: there is 30% of people's households without electricity, in energy poverty. And here there is a huge contradiction, Ministers and government gentlemen. There is a contradiction between the energy wealth that exists in Greece, where there are huge sources of natural, mineral and also renewable fuels, which are not only exploited, but are being speculated in support of the capitalist profit of business groups, but also of PPC's action, as an anonymous company, which is the capitalist profit, so that there are thousands of people's households who cannot meet its energy needs. How can this contradiction be resolved? Only when these sources become popular property. Only when raw materials, machinery, factories become state, social property, which of course needs another power in our country. In other words, work power, which means decommissioning from the European Union and conflicting with the interests of monopolistic groups and socialisation of the production process and activity, with the aim of satisfying popular needs and not capitalist profit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr Kegeroglu, has the floor for his denology. You've got three minutes, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. On the occasion of the position of the previous colleague, Mr Karathanasopoulos, who said that we did not go ahead with the definition of an EEZ and, indirectly, this can be interpreted in the appropriate way - by the interpreter outside the Chamber, I mean - I mean that, under the 2001 Act and the procedures that we followed, on the basis of Article 156, we have, as a country, exercised our unilateral right, as this stems from international law, to determine the exploitation zone, on the basis of the average line, as provided for in international law. And it may not have voted - I remembered now - SYRIZA and the KIC, but this does not mean that we must be placed in a way that other mistrusters can take advantage of this sovereign right. 156 ensures our national sovereign rights and must be supported by all the wings of the House. And I now come to what Mr Denkias said, because it really is worth putting ourselves on the Prime Minister's morning statement that he intends to carry out, as he has said, a proposal to set up a Committee of Inquiry into Health. Welcome to him and welcome! And of course, the Committee of Inquiry into Health will be concerned with the period from 2004 to 2017, in order to really shine the truth and to learn the Greek people and when the big waste was wasted, but when it became the household of its medical policy. I have to say that, according to official figures from the Bank of Greece, the country's financial derailment took place between 2007 and 2009. And, of course, if we see the five years since 2004, on the basis of only four indicators, we will understand what was done with that insane economics - and not just - of the New Democracy. In the period 2004-2009 the primary deficit was EUR 24 billion and the total EUR 36 billion. You all remember that according to official figures, public debt in 2003 was EUR 167 billion, 2009 was EUR 330 billion. Pharmaceutical expenditure - for which a committee of inquiry will also be held - was EUR 2.2 billion in 2004 and EUR 5.6 billion in 2009. The current account balance, which is the indicator reflecting the whole dynamic of the economy, unfortunately from -1% in 2004, in 2009, reached -14%. So at the hanger's house, we don't have to talk about rope. Mr Dendias in his attempt to and his obligation to support - and that is understandable - the whole thing, he has denounced us about things that New Democracy has done. I would say to him, however, that today too much of what we are experiencing because of the disastrous SYRIZA policy, we would not have experienced them if the caramanlic people backed the New Democracy. So let us start from there and let the other groups do their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor from the Centron Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'd like to start with something unpleasant. We must, however, express our condolences from the Stepma to Mr Nicos Pappa for the loss of his mother. I hope she finds the power, because the mother is always a huge loss for every man. Heat condolences from me and from the Centro Association to the family of Nikos Papapas. As regards health and the Committee of Inquiry, which she proposed during the debate on the current question by our President, Mr Leventis, we were pleased to hear her announcement. Welcome is everything that has to do with coming to the light. We want everything to be transparent. And we will be here to support any effort that has to do with transparency and dignity. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to move forward on the issue of topical and urgent questions, we as the Centro Association fully agree with what the Democratic Incorporation says. More generally, the inability of the government to manage the wealth of the country's energy reserves, in a way that is beneficial to the citizens, is a proverb. On the one hand, there is no willingness to strengthen the business initiative, on the other hand, governments are talking in a bold way about environmental protection, renewable energy sources and about rehabilitation from fossil fuels. At the same time, however, we are becoming champions throughout Europe in pollution, following the decision to extend and extend lignite extraction for electricity production, based on the plans of 'Melite 2', knowing that the quality of this mineral is the worst possible. So we would ask Mr. Famelos, who has come to replace Mr. Stathakis, to explain why you consciously chose the lignite, which is responsible for 1/3 of the emissions of pollutants in Greece. We would also ask you to give us what you have done so far as a government: firstly, to implement the national plan to reduce pollutants. Secondly, for the smooth transition to the post-Greek era. Thirdly, to draw up a plan to create new jobs in renewable sources. I will give an indication in the Minutes - since September - of this letter from the European Parliament's Greens to Mr Tsipras, in which they are hitting the alarm over the dangerous choices in this system. In our country, the market was a bulwark of stateism and customer relations. So I will necessarily talk about PPC more than anything else in terms of energy. PPC has been identified with the state. On the one hand the electricity accounts were never 100% exclusively for the electricity. I mention, for example, that consumers pay 11 charges, of which only three are related to electricity. In fact, for an average household, which consumes about a thousand six hundred kilowatts a quarter, it represents only 35% of the relevant account. On the other hand, the state pays this service to PPC with eternal rugs, high wage and pension scales, and at the same time, with a glance of party armies. In all this climate, the energy market in Greece has its darkness, not so much because there is some conspiracy against the endemic production and the disposal of energy, but because the political cost is great, if we really put the hand in the system, because you will simply lose votes. The black truth is that the targets set by the state for the penetration of renewable energy sources into the energy balance are not met by 2020. Let me recall, for those who do not know, that in 2010 the Greek state set as the goal the participation of renewable energy sources in gross electricity consumption, at least 40% by 2020, based on n.3851/2010. According to EUROSTAT, however, at the end of 2014 the RES only covered 21,9 % of gross electricity consumption. Today, we estimate that this percentage has not been exceeded. So we do not share this optimism on the part of the government. Positive is that you have been forced by the European Commission at last to recognise that the activity of private producers and suppliers in electricity is reasonable and encourages competition. So we expect to see what the so-called assessment of the NOME energy auctions - which we see is not rendering from what seems to be happening to date - from RAE next June. Let me remind you that PPC's debts to IPTO and DEDEFOP exceed EUR 600 million. And all this, of course, works as a domino to debt, affecting the entire energy market. Greece, unfortunately, is not allowed to operate an autonomous volts and, at the same time, to have power from PPC. The double supply, while it is legal abroad, does not apply to Greece. To have a photovoltaic, you must first download the PPC switch and then be able to operate through the photovoltaic. If we look at this with due attention, perhaps it could be called an anti-constitutional. I shall submit to the Minutes a report on it. Let's move on to the Democratic Reconciliation. Despite the superficial agony that today shows as a critic against SYRIZA, we cannot forget that for days PASOK gigged this whole issue in energy. It was the PASOK trade unions who were the first to grind into PPC and downstream the switches to ask for grants from their insurance funds. You, Mr PASOK, have laid on the basis of these gentlemen who are in the government so that they can perpetuate this whole situation. So, any self-criticism on your part, we are chilly indifferent. With self-criticism, the funds are not filled or covered by the black financial holes. And on your day, there were opportunities to liberalise the energy market, but you did nothing at all. There was a perpetuation of the client state. Let's go take a look at what's going on in Europe and the world around us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u115	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u116	Just a minute, Mr President, and I will conclude. Thank you. [[Applause]] I quote: India: With solar energy the electricity of all railway stations. China: Increased solar energy production and capacity by 82% in 2016. Africa: At the forefront of a revolution in solar energy. Now we're going to the Western states too. We are starting from America, which developed by 95% last year. Denmark: The need for one day's electricity was only covered by wind power. Ireland: The first country in the world, which completely stops investment in fossil fuels. Let me remind you that Ireland is running at the highest growth rates right now throughout Europe. Sweden, Finland and Latvia: 54%, 40% and 39% respectively from renewable energy sources. I shall submit relevant articles in the Minutes, so as not to delay any more. We are lower than the average. Who? Greece, which has the best climatic conditions throughout Europe in terms of the exploitation of the sun, wind and waterfalls. The European Union, as I said before, has set 20% target, but we do not believe that we will be able to catch it. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing with this: our country has a huge natural wealth. We have plenty of natural sources of energy and infinite possibilities of wind, solar and hydroelectric production, which we are not exploiting. It is a pity, both for us and for the future generations, that we want to promote in this country, to constantly discover obstacles to the development orbit of our country. Let us finally show the extroversion that is appropriate and bring some optimism to this place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Georgios Amyras has the floor from the river.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that we discuss today with the topical question of the Democratic Integration, even if we say so in a narrow parliamentary circle, as you can see. In any case, I shall begin, ladies and gentlemen, or rather ladies and gentlemen, because there is no colleague in this Chamber - with a comment on the committee of inquiry, which the Prime Minister has announced, in fact, on health issues. We in the river say 'yes' for both health and education and for anything. Let's start, because I see that various classes are being struggling about when things have to be looked at in health. Others say since 2000, others since 2004, etc. Start from 1821, as long as it does not become a bundle, get something on the surface and have a practical result, which will help us to improve the structures of the state, society and the economy from now on. Now let's get to the point. Before I get to Stepma, I came an e-mail and it really is very interesting. The study entitled “Energy poverty in Greece, social innovation proposals to tackle the phenomenon” is published. It is a study prepared by the Heinrich Bell Foundation of Greece, the Institute of Energy zero-energy Consumption Buildings and the social cooperative "Animation Wind". Have you received it, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u119	I got the e-mail too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u120	I already took a look at the study. He's got some very interesting facts, dear Mr. Famele. We need to eliminate energy poverty. Energy poverty means that people - and there are too many in Greece and on the basis of official studies, they are approaching the percentage of the total population in the year 1/3- do not turn on water heaters, because they are afraid that the electricity bill will be high and they will not have to pay for it. It also means that it does not heat and cool in winter. This is energy poverty. This is where experts tell us that we need to change policy. We need to inform and train the general population better and increase the energy efficiency of buildings, to make use of renewable energy sources. All too often from this Chamber and from this Step, with the risk of becoming a little boring, I refer to the achievements of other countries by how their own comparative advantages from renewable energy sources are exploited. I have told you many times about Denmark, which almost a month ago, on February 23, 2017, covered all its energy needs exclusively from wind energy. On the same day, however, these coincidences - ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Justice of the European Union condemned Greece because Greece violated a Community directive on the energy efficiency of buildings. I will tell you in simple terms: Our country, like all the countries of the European Union, must draw up a report every five years and notify it to the European Commission, in which it must indicate the measures and results which each government has sought or brought about, in relation to the energy efficiency of buildings, the development of renewable energy sources and how it applies to buildings. On February 3, 2015, a new government then SYRIZA received a letter from the committee, which said: “Go faster. We want the report on what you have done as governments successively on energy efficiency in buildings." It has been two years, ladies and gentlemen. We did not send letters, reports and that is where just a few days ago, on the day that, as I said, Denmark covered 100% of its energy needs from air use, we were in yet another condemnation on the back. Why? Because Greece has never submitted a report and it is understood that it was left behind in this area too. In any case, I do not want to bore you with Denmark anymore, but I would suggest that we become Hawaii. Of course! Hawaii, ladies and gentlemen, has put forward a very ambitious, but also realistic programme, on the basis of which it will be illuminated at night, will meet its energy needs from sun energy, even though it will be night. They have built a large solar park and at the same time an energy storage station that is collected in the morning by the sun, with a innovative battery system. And here, where Hawaii shows us the way. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not need to become Denmark or Hawaii. As long as we become Greece, which we really are, a country with enormous potential, with many advantages in geothermality, in air, in the wave. Everywhere Greece is blessed, but I would say that it is largely wronged by its inhabitants and its governments. Ladies and gentlemen, we as a Potami, consider that the cheapest and cleaner kilowatts now is the one that has never been burned, which has never been spent. Why? Because we need to take care not only of production, but also of savings and demand. That's where we have to do business. We do not have to be Denmark or Hawaii. Let us become Greece of Pindos, Greece of the islands, Greece of the Greeks, who have been innovating and researching since the Greeks remember themselves. Why should we now fall short? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for your dentistry for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. I said at the beginning of my speech on an examination for Mr Karamanlis and Mr Varoufakis, and it was a mess. Immediately, volunteer left-wing volunteers support Kostas Karamanlis. We didn't say anything different. We've said we've had an examination since the country entered the Memorandum. (MA) Secondly, we said what Mr Varoufakis said the other day, that he wanted to be an Inquisition. Do you want to? Of course, we must congratulate Kostas Karamanlis. It is amazing what is happening: SYRIZA, ANEL and New Democracy - which is of course his party - to compete against who will defend Karamanlis! I really want to tell you I've never seen it before. It could be a government from the future. After Costas Karamanlis joins them, they can also be found in the government. There's no problem with that. I see the Minister now, who announced the side tolls on the Barumbas bridge. I remember then Mrs. Duru, where she was dating the banners. Today he made no statement. It is to your credit that Mrs Durou has made no statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u123	In your honor, however, it is not what you are doing for the contracts you have signed. Because you're gonna make us talk too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u124	As much as you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u125	Amnesia is not a good phenomenon.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u126	At the end of the sitting, we should leave the fighting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u127	Now, you're not in 2014 or 2013 that you could say anything you want to do and do whatever you want. Now we don't even have to answer you. People are watching you. He judges you one, for your policies, not personally. I never raise personal issues. I heard the Minister, who reminded me a little of Mr Lafazani, who says about the Greek 'you said about 6 billion'. How much did you sign? What did you sign? Do you remember what you signed the contract, the last, on Mrs Tsakalotou? There's an issue, which is in ELSTAT's mathematical analogues, with PPC. This is groundbreaking. And as the Prime Minister was saying other things and ELSTAT corrected him - because you Syrians are adding and subtracting there - I want to tell you this with PPC. You cannot tell in your answers that it was 70% - 30% and do 34%. You can't, 17%, have said he's going to the superstition, and you're gonna have a counselor, make it 51%. That's never happened before. Is there nothing wrong with the superstition, which you have given for a hundred years? Ladies and gentlemen, the biggest issue for PPC is its payback. And that's a message for all of us, because for two three years you've been there, saying the easy, the big words, the trade unionists and the simple world, and today PPC finds the 100,000,000 this afternoon so it won't go bankrupt. And the accident is you haven't put any brains in it. You continue to speak today as if you were in 2014. And I end with this: I see that the government, all it does is deal with the examinations. Can I tell you something? Mr President, I do not believe there is much going on with the examinations. I wish they'd come out. But since you do nothing else and want to stay for two years - and you will well stay, you will - bring all the exams, finish in two years, have you to say, so that the next governments will stop this whole process. You will be the only government to bring in examinations, just as you brought in the previous one, where you will in the end not be able to find someone responsible to blame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, my colleague. My colleague, Mikhail Jellus, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. I would not be able to comment on the challenge that we accepted as a Democratic Incorporation for the committees of inquiry. I would just like to say that Parliament's space is the most important place where, instead of invoking the bibliographies of some hagiographers for political persons, we should accept all the political parties what the Democratic Consortium proposed, the Committee of Inquiry from 2001 to 2009, to see the causes that we led to the Memorandum. Why are you all avoiding this, but on the other hand you are becoming self-invited defenders of governance over the period 2004-2009? Are you afraid of what the Old man of the Republic said about Greva being glorified by hiding, but has he been oppressed by appearing? In relation to the debate that has taken place here, on the initiative of the Democratic Integration for Energy Policy, I would like to say that we have again seen the SYRIZA - ANEL coexistence following this tactic, that it is all about the past and when your responsibilities are made clear, then you do not understand. You do not rather understand the consequences of your actions and you do not care about anything else than how you remain in power. I would like to refer to a number of energy sectors, which have not heard anything about geothermality. What about geothermality? Our country is favoured at this level. Only in Serres County has five geothermal fields. Law 4001/2011 awaits, following the facilitation and liberalisation of the declarations of the geothermal fields now, through regions, that they should be implemented and launched. Nothing. Farmers' photovoltaics - it was heard here - dissolved with a tax of 22% to 45%, the biggest impact of more than twenty thousand goes to 29%, plus 21% insurance contributions, which will go to 26%, so 55% and are paid eight months after VAT. You understand that the farmers who wanted to invest in this part have destroyed them. I would like, Minister, to ask about the reward fee from wind power, where since 2015, Minister Skourletis has been to make the allocation of the sum of 20 million for what is going on for two hundred eleven municipalities and two hundred seventy communities. I would also like to mention an issue relating to the energy and transit of the TEN pipeline from our country. In fact, from the areas where the TPA pipeline goes through, we see that it works as a state in a state, and indeed, with a colonial logic and perception. We see that in municipalities, where no entry protocols have been signed on municipal land and nothing has been approved by the municipality for transit permits, both from agricultural and other asphalt networks as well as watercourses, the project is progressing, and they are all written in their old shoes. Already many municipalities have resorted to justice. I will present to the minutes of the House the procedure that the Municipality of Neos Zichni of Serres Prefecture, where since the sixth month of 2016 he has taken a series of actions towards both the Directorate of Natural Gas and the Delegation of the European Commission, as well as to the European Commission, because every EU regulation is now being violated here, in relation to the construction of public works, as well as the Inter-Agricultural Order of 27 October to the Ministry of the Environment. We are not honored as a country, as this pipeline works. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mikhail Jellonis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In conclusion, I would like to say that I asked the Minister a question on 18 January on transparency in relation to the TPA compensation system, on corporate social responsibility, which is not voluntary, is an obligation. Following my question to the Minister, on 10 February, the Minister called exceptionally for a meeting with the district managers to see what is going to be done with the compensatory amounts of 32 million for the three regions of Northern Greece. I would like to point out that the relevant authorities, the municipalities, were not invited to this meeting. At the same time, he said that in a few weeks' time the regional proposals would be discussed. Already closed a month. We have not received any response in relation to the transparency of the compensation. I believe that these 32 million belong to local communities. It is the responsibility of the municipalities to make proposals. There must be transparency, and there must be clear conditions for financing the municipalities respectively, in accordance with the milestones of the route from each municipality. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that, as in any development effort, the government is plunging or hostile to every business activity, because what this place creates and produces is being expropriated. This is how we count two more years lost for the energy sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr. Maniotis, has the floor. And we'll close the meeting with the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Femello. Here, Mr. Maniatis, you have the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u131	Let's start with the easy ones, so we can make it easier for the ministry. I am tabling the European Commission study on the basis of which the national energy savings strategy has been described as Europe's second best. All you have to do, Mr Minister, is follow the strategy that the European Commission considers to be the second best in Europe. For your use, I'm filing it. Because Mr. Stathakis had questions about national energy planning, I submit for the record the National Energy Plan, March 2012, which continues to be posted on the Ministry's website, in which you are Minister. March 2012, National Energy Strategy Planning. Also for your own use, with December 2014, I submit for the Minutes the National Energy Performance Action Plan. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I hope that all the questions from the main ministers have been resolved. And we're going to the DESFA. In 2012, Mr. Tsipras, in his statements, asked for a referendum on the DESFA, saying that it is a sale to proceed with the sale of 66% of the DESFA. Mr. Tsipras today, as Prime Minister, will he sign the DESFA sale by 66%, as Mr. Stathakis said, yes or no? Statements by Mr. Tsipras in Kozani in 2012: "Requires a referendum in order not to proceed with the sale of 66% of the IPCC". You're selling PPC. Give me 50%. 51% left for half PPC, will you sell 17%? In other words, you received a PPC, which, in terms of customers, was around 90% and in terms of production and imports of electricity was about 75%. You take this company to 50%, both in terms of production and customers. It loses 40% of customers and 25% of the production base, production and imports. Will you sell from this and 17%? This is no longer a sale of national wealth. This is now causing serious problems for the stability of the country's energy system. That is why we are waiting, if Mr Stathakis, as Minister of Energy, now agrees with Mr Stathakis, Minister of Development in May 2016, TIADED proceeds with the sale of 17%. But obviously the man said 'yes', so we shall proceed'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u132	No, of course not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u133	They'll move on. That's what Mr. Stathakis said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u134	On the contrary, he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u135	I wish you'd disprove him. We'll be so happy. We'll applaud it. But, Minister, on 9 February, STADARD AND POORS again degraded PPC for the fourth consecutive time in the last few months. And see - I don't want to say it - in what state PPC's share is, how they characterize PPC's share today. Last item. Minister, around Christmas, December - January, the country was in danger twice with black out. We haven't had a conversation. We, as Democratic Compact, watched it. We did not want to open this up under any circumstances. We know very well that the country's energy system is red. The responsibilities of those you have appointed to the administrations of the energy companies are enormous, either because there was no readiness in terms of lignite plants or because the supply of gas was less than the needs of the country or because those who had to anticipate the emergencies had done absolutely nothing. Fortunately - in procedures that we have learned them and I do not want to comment on how - the country has been saved at the last minute and there have been no blackouts. I expect you to let us know if the Ministry's political leadership has asked for responsibility from those who reached the country one step before the black out. And I will end with Mr. Dendia, the New Democracy. They really are unprecedented historical. Mr Karamanlis also cares about his party, the New Democracy - reasonable - but also SYRIZA. Mr. Tsipras has never said a word, neither has Mr. Stathakis said anything either. I would remind you of three figures, because everything must be said for learning and education as many times as possible. From 2004 to 2009 the deficit, the debt from 180 billion to 300 billion. The country's overall deficit in 2009 was 24 billion primary and cumulative 36 billion. The country to live in 2009, a total to repay interest and pay wages and pensions, borrowed 36 billion. And a third number that for many economists is also the toughest, is the current trade deficit, which is the competitiveness deficit at 15%. Any attempt at political or party, or any attempt to sabotage situations that led the country to the memorandum and political responsibilities that have been recorded historically, cannot pass through and cannot pass because anyone who wants to be honest with the people who have voted for it - and I am now addressing the Government - must accept the proposal of the Democratic Incorporation for a single Committee of Inquiry from 2000 to 2016. Because it is not enough to include only the first and second memorandums and how we entered the Eurozone, but also to include the third Memorandum of Tsipras - Varoufakis and the fourth Memorandum, the memorandum that comes now - without even money - the Tsipras - Tsakalotou Memorandum, so that all this period can be included and the Greek citizens can fully know the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mr. Maniot. Mr Socrates Famelos has the floor for six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, I must also have four minutes of secondary education. If you could give me more time to close it smoothly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u138	You have a second and a protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u139	I spoke six instead of ten...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u140	There'll be some tolerance, we're just at the end now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. We'll close, I hope, constructively. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about a very serious issue, the energy planning of the country. You will allow me to link this issue from the outset with the issues of climate change and the environment, with the commitment of the country, but also of Europe, to move towards reducing carbon emissions and rehabilitation from fossil fuels, a project that is essentially sustainable and socially economic, a new model of energy market operation, which aims to reduce energy costs for households and businesses, and to promote energy investment. You will allow me to say from the outset that this model - which we have been tabling and implementing over the last two years - is completely contrary to the model that you have carried out, a model which very simply wanted the complete privatisation of the energy sector, without a plan, without any prospect of labour, without a product for our country, in a very neoliberal way of reading that does not even correspond to the institutional principles of the party in which you are participating. In our case, we are obviously much more effective in understanding the substance of our country, the geostrategic position and the ability to operate as an energy hub, which is linked to know-how, with innovation, with the use of new scientists here in the country and with super-productivity in production, which you have ignored, since the logic of the neoliberals you have followed so far, in recent years, has just been to sell out and leave no public sector to energy, obviously, nor to serve the public benefit at the level of society. Our own reading links the energy sector not only to work and to growth, but also to social cohesion, because we clearly need to suspend serious omissions and mistakes of the past and, at the same time, create a new environment where there will be safer access to energy for all households. There have been questions about where our country is today about the mix of energy. I must tell you that today our country has a very low dependency on fossil fuels, it can reach up to 30% in 2016, 27% is natural gas, 25% are renewables, including hydroelectric and 18% imports. We have delays in several RES. Previously, Mr Jelpholis referred to geothermality. So let us tell him that the institutional framework deficits and the delays in the renting of fields have caused a serious problem with geothermality, indeed. Although the process in Alexandroupolis has recently evolved, we also need to correct a number of issues in the context, similar to those that have been created in wind parks, where the fee has not, in fact, been paid. I have to tell you that we are now working to make the end for 2010-2014, which you have never made sure you do anything, obviously, nor to assist the Government nor to assist local communities. However, this amount will be paid for the beneficiaries of 2010-2014 and we are in the finalisation phase of the tables. Indeed, however, we are now debating - and Mr Amyras is right - energy efficiency issues. And we created a search, if you'd like, for why the country was in that position. So let me tell you - Mr Amyras is not here, he will see it from the Minutes - that our country's reference to a violation of the energy performance of buildings, you will probably remember it, took place on 11-7-2015, Mr Maniotis. That's what I think he's saying. Our country is, in fact, seriously delayed and not just in this area. I must tell you that we also have EUR 67.5 million in the environmental sector from fines, from omissions of PASOK and New Democracy to environmental policy, and from the delay of our country in the environment and energy, which the country now has, in a difficult financial situation, must all cover and win. This is why we sent an interim report in April 2015 on building performance and the definitive one-houses May 2016, apartments December 2016, gaps January 2017, primary sector Flevaris 2017, to cover obligations you did not cover and left the country unarmed in this area as well. But we are not only suspending, obviously, delays in the legislative framework and the organisation of regulatory provisions, but also dealing with the substance of policy. So, let's talk about 17% of PPC, 'cause you probably didn't hear Mr. Stathakis. The government's political leadership therefore disagrees with this prospect, subject to the 17% TDID, and we propose the introduction of 17% to the Public Participation Company. Because PPC, under the new conditions of the European global electricity market, can finally be an integrated undertaking, with an important place in the domestic energy market and in other sectors, except fossil fuels, obviously in renewable energy sources, obviously in natural gas, obviously in geothermality. Our aim is for PPC to collaborate with serious and reliable investors, in common company shapes and not to sell. Why, we also believe in the environmental upgrading of power-generating modules, which we claimed, in addition, in order to enable the country and the trading of air-flows to escape, to escape from the unfavourable prediction that the draft directive you adopted in 2014 and to enter the modernisation fund, which belongs to the country, was entitled to the country based on GDP for 2015-2016. Because we believe that what the country claims to be transported to consumers, there should be this access to this social good. This is why PPC has introduced - something that has not been heard - for the first time a discount on the consistent consumers of 15%, and at the same time helps to avoid and stop sensitive social groups, to have new account arrangements, settlement of older debts, so that we can talk to society, ensure income and hold, if you like, the operation of PPC and electricity production in our country. As regards the reduction of PPC's share, we must ensure and ensure that this is done in a coordinate manner. The sales logic of little PPC, which you had, has been closed for us. We believe that something quite different needs to be done, that PPC should discuss the process of switching to the market for the marketing divisions, which correspond to the agreements you made and we could not all resolve them, so that by 2030 the company could meet its obligations. And you know, the public benefit is what we care about throughout the whole conversation. As far as consumers are concerned, we are very much interested in extending the social tariff. We are interested in not cutting the current to a sum of 1,000 euros. We are concerned that we have 92,000 households that are in the humanitarian crisis programme today. However, in the area of work we are also interested in claiming and ensuring that, in spite of the liberalisation of the energy market, workers, for example, in gas companies and in PPC over the next five years, will not lose their place, even though the market is changed because of the separation of the distribution and distribution industries. However, we also have the same public benefit in the major strategic issues, such as, for example, the IPCC. There we have to say that, with the responsibility of Azerbaijan, an agreement has been broken, which, while it would have been possible to earn 400 million in your agreement, we know very well - and it was revealed here when we discussed Mr Skourlet's amendment - that it would have almost double costs. Because the price formation of the network had a prospect of an increase of 68%. And that was proposed and noted by the RAE. Do you deny that? It was a deal that was not just in clay legs, but put in the country. The public benefit, therefore, is what characterizes all our efforts. That is why at the recent Council of Ministers we have claimed that the country should enter the Modernisation Fund, that we can claim up to about EUR 400 million to modernise the electricity grid on the islands, so that we can import renewable energy from the mainland into the islands. At the same time, on our own initiative, we have the second competition for some twenty areas for oil. On our own initiative this time, Rethyssus works. Also, the MDG started. And I must say that from the 11 million compensatory benefits we claimed and won 32 million. We have tripled the compensatory amounts for the country. On our initiative in "Security 2" - in which you had completed about 50 thousand households, but had managed to stay out of 35 thousand, i.e. from 50 thousand, 35 000 were not financed with the incomplete budget you had made - and with our own funding, we introduced an additional 8 thousand and we are trying to find resources for a new supplement to "Security 1". However, 'Security 2' will not depend on the banks, but will enable families with many social scales - if you want - and the family situation to be introduced into the programme. And we also need to talk about natural gas, which, on our own initiative, extends to all towns in Thessaloniki. Let's say that. We have kept the excise duty low, because the citizen will have 40% lower energy costs, heating costs, and the professional will have the same cost reduction. And all of this is obviously not only in Thessaloniki, but also in Greece's distribution company, which has a major programme for northern Greece, but also for Central Greece, because we are interested in the investments being made at the same time by claiming the social benefit for the whole of society. This is the different - if you like - that also exists in the energy sector. This is why we are even re-activating in the renewable energy sector which PPC had a small share of participation and we want it to be strengthened. There is now a great deal of initiative in our country. Mr. Dendias asked what we've done. I mentioned enough. However, I should like to mention both the work of the Revithoussa and the liquefied station of Alexandroupolis and the promotion by the PPC of the Greek-Bulgaria pipeline. It's too many works. There are obviously works on marine land with regard to oil research and the initialling of agreements. Mr Kegeroglu said - I was amazed - that we have been publicising this last week because your question was coming. It seems that the Members of the Democratic Incorporation do not know how much work they need for environmental licensing and the negotiation of contracts, to say that we could do so in a day alone to create a public event, in order to reflect your own question. We, ladies and gentlemen, have been working for two years to cover the gaps in negotiation, policy deficits, fragmentation and sales and, above all, the fact that this administration, these governments have so far forgotten society. They weren't talking to society, they weren't talking to the citizens. They only spoke to the lenders and with foreign documents, they unleashed the country's property.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u142	Minister, we're already in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u143	The social benefit therefore returns as a key policy criterion in both the energy sector and obviously having the priority of the environmental component in energy. Because indeed the environment and social cohesion give us the best supply to make our country an important and international factor, but also a great investment site for energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u146	Mr. Maniatou...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u147	Mr. President, is that allowed? I'll take the floor if I have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u148	Mr. Famelos says if you speak, he'll have the floor again. The procedure is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u149	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u150	Here, you have the floor for half a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u151	It is simply because the Minister very heroicly told us that they have initialled an agreement, that we have signed three agreements, that we have passed them from the Court of Auditors and that we have ratified them in the Greek Parliament. In front of them, therefore, they had three models, which had not only been initialled, but had finally been signed, they had passed through the Court of Auditors' audit, which had not yet passed, strategic environmental impact studies and had been ratified with the agreement of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament by the Greek Parliament. Let's use it. It will be useful for the country to make use of our own experience.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House of thirty students and students and three educational attendants from the 2nd High School Leros. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The debate on Question No 10/14-2-2017 is adjourned on the subject: "In the deadlock of energy, the dangers to society and the national economy." Ladies and gentlemen, we are returning to the topical and urgent question report and we are reading today's topical and urgent questions, as the Special Secretariat of the President of the Parliament has informed us. The first under number 590/13-3-2017, the first question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Mr.Ioannis Kefaloyannis, to the Minister of Interior, on the management of the waste of Zakynthos, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of the Interior Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis. The seventh question under number 568/6-3-2017 of the Second Chamber of Athens of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of the Interior on the subject "The municipality of Kavala legalizes the pseudo-state in tourist exhibition in Constantinople", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister of the Interior Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis. The second, with number 587/13-2017, is the first question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKMKMKKKKKMKMKKMKKKKKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMMMMMMKMKMKMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMM The fourth question under number 601/14-3-2017, first question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the recognition of a service at ERT S.A. for officials of Presidential Decree No 164/2006, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information Mr Nikolaos Papapas. The first, with number 591/13-3-2017, a topical question from the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukokorous, on the "health abandonment of the Alonissos", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. The third, with number 577/9-3-2017, a topical question from the Independent MEP II of Athens, Eftathios Panagoulis, on "the provocative use of chemicals in protesters despite the recent explicit ban on the government and the commitment of the Minister", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska. The fourth question under number 538/24-2-2017 is the second question of the Parliamentary Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMARMAR Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject of "in the air the task of extending the National Gallery", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Culture and Sports Mr. Lydias Konordou. The fifth question under number 531/24-2-2017 of the PASOK Democratic Incorporation - DIMAR Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister of Economy and Development concerning the integration of sewerage networks and sewerage treatment projects Konnovazina, Levidi and Calliani Arcadias will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Alexandros Haritsis. The sixth question under number 479/14-2-2017 on the second question by Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the burden of marine ecosystems in the Mediterranean with radioactive waste is not being discussed. The eighth Question No 569/7-3-2017 topical question from the MP Argolida of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the activation of the decision on the pilot study of the Social Control Zone (Z.E.) Mr Georgios Stathakis will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister for the Environment and Energy. The ninth under number 571/7-3-2017 a topical question by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Economy and Development on "the case of beer and whether there are jurors in the Competition Committee", will not be discussed by the Minister of Economy and Development Mr. The third, with number 596/13-3-2017, top-circuit question of the Athens Parliamentary of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Foreign Minister on the subject “The World Bank “graves” the Aegean” in Turkey, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr.Ioannis Amanatidis. The second question under number 602/14-3-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the licences of substitute teachers, will not be discussed due to a blockage of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance "Integration into the national legislation of Directive 2014/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on the comparability of fees linked to payment accounts, the change of a payment account and access to payment accounts with basic features and other provisions". The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-17-S1-commons.u153	With the consent of the House at 15.23 p.m. the sitting is closed for Monday 20 March 2017 at 17.00 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a) a debate on topical questions; b) a question under Rule 134(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARK KEGEROGLO.
