ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: In accordance with Parliament's 20-12-2017 authorisation, the minutes of its PRACTICE meeting, of Wednesday 20 December 2017, with regard to the vote on all draft laws: (a) ‘Strengthening the Memorandum of Cooperation on the National Frequency Initiative (2015-2018), under the programme “The French language in international relations” and (b) ‘Authorisation of Space Activities — Registration of the National Space Objects Register — Establishment of the Greek Space Organisation and other provisions’]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Friday 22 December 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 694/19-12/2017 of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on "No institutional framework for monitoring polling published by the PSE". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 699/19-12/2017 that was asked by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Anna - Michel Asmakopoulou, to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, concerning the action to grant satellite receivers of white areas not covered by the terrestrial digital signal. 3. The question by No. 584/8-12/2017 of the PASOK Democratic Association MP - DIMAR Mr. Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Migration Policy, on the subject: "Great risks for the future of the refugee from the wrongly practised policy of the Ministry". 4. The 620/11-12-2017 topical question by Congressman B' Athens, George Amyras, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "No “leasure” house in the hands of a banker”. 5. The question raised by Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos on the subject of 'Conservation of the Validity of Opinions' by Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information' by Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos. 6. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Saridis under number 626/13-12-2017 is a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the subject: 'Control on the validity of measurements of opinion'. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. PASOK – DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Financing from PPC S.A.”, the project to improve the road Pournaria - Kyri - Mygdalia, worth EUR 500.00”. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Question No 628/15-12/2017 by Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on "Is 30% of State Advertising in the Region?"? REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKROKMKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK1KKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKK1KKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakakak Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kalogerou, informs the House that four questions will be answered and that the following questions will not be discussed: The sixth under number 693/18-12/2017 topical question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Foreign Minister, on the subject: "The position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the so-called transnational agreement with Saudi Arabia" will not be discussed, due to the absence of the State Secretary responsible abroad. The second question under number 698/19-12/2017 of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Kilkis Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: "External and fragmented the results of the Government on Digital Organisations", will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Olga Gerovasili, due to unsuccessful obligations. The fifth question under number 622-12-12-2017, topical question by MP Larisa of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, on the subject: “When will the digital signature be applied?”, will not be discussed, due to the obstruction of the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, Mr. Olga Gerovasili, due to unsuccessful obligations. The third, with number 580/6-12-2017, timely question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Financial aid for the restoration of housing losses and the replacement of building for the victims of the murderous flood in West Attica", will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr.Theanos Fotio, due to a workload. The eighth Question No 537/4-12-2017 topical question from the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and Mr Spyridon Lykoudis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the subject: "Social and psychological support for those affected by natural disasters" will not be discussed, due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr.Theano Fotou, due to a workload. The fourth question under number 696/19-12-2017 is the first question of the Athens Parliamentary Committee of the Communist Party of Greece. Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “To stop terrorism and persecution of workers at the supermarket “KARYPIDIS”, ensure their right to work and pay their dues,” will not be discussed, as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mrs Ahtsoglou, due to unsettled commitments. The third, with number 679/18-12-2017, timely question from the Member of the Parliamentary of Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece. Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Applement of a worker, a member of the Board of Directors of the "Constitutional Milk-Food and Drinks N. Heraklion" by SABOIDAKIS S.A.", will not be discussed, due to an obstruction of the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr.Achtsioglou, due to unsuccessful commitments. Nor will the seventh question, number 571/5-12-2017, be discussed at the second time in the Greek Parliamentary of Athens, Mr. Gerasimios Giakoumatos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Procedure to address recent natural disasters", because of the obstruction of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr. Spirtzis, because he will be present in Xanthi on a road on Egnatia. The ninth under No. 536/4-12-2017 topical question from the Member of the Attica of the River Mr. Georgios Mavrotas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "An anti-military protection project in the Attica region", will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr. Spirtzi, because he will be present in Xanthi on a road on the Egnatia Road. We enter the debate on the second question by No 678/18-12/2017 on the second time question by Mr Hercules of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on "A hundred and twenty instalments for late debts of insurance contributions". The State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer Mr. Petropoulos. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Questions which are not being dealt with have been taken seriously by the conclusion that the procedure for parliamentary scrutiny has been degenerated again. Three-quarters or more are being cancelled and from what I have heard, except in a case abroad, the reason is that the workload is generally and indefinitely. Of the four questions that we have tabled, as Democratic Independence, one will be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u4	I would like to comment on what you said that we will bring this back to the Conference of Presidents. And we've brought it many times. The excuse for a burden of work and unsuccessful obligations, as the ministers know in these days, is a little curious. We shall also raise this issue to the Government, if necessary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. The issue of my topical question concerns the implementation of the regulation provided for in Law 4469 - it is now six months that have been voted and applied - in cases where they are not part of the extrajudicial compromise. In particular, the extrajudicial compromise does not include those debtors who owe less than EUR 20,000 and are micro-processors. Secondly, they do not include those who have business activities, professionals, etc., but do not have bankruptcy. Thirdly, those in debt to the CRL, which are in the insurance funds, more than 85% of their total liabilities. These three major categories can, by means of the provision in paragraph 21 of Article 15 of Law 4469, be introduced into the regulation of a hundred and twenty instalments autonomously, without the limitations of the extrajudicial compromise, since, of course, the Ministry is bound to make the relevant ministerial decisions. The question is: What are you doing for six months, Minister, and you have not issued the specific, statutory, ministerial decisions? This whole world, which can and does want to be part of the regulation of the hundred and twenty instalments, as provided for in the relevant article, why is it now that six months will not be able to incorporate and regulate its debts and have similar benefits, which have to do with the insurance information and all the rest of it, and to settle their debts? So this is not a question of inertia and inability of the debtors, but of inertia and inability of the Ministry to give this possibility and, indeed, through a legislative act. I would like clear answers from the Minister. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u6	The State Secretary, Mr Petropoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, the delay is due to the great effort being made towards the best conditions for facilitating debtors to pay their debts. We didn't have another reason. This will be demonstrated in a few days, which will be the case with a ministerial decision. It is obvious that the government's declared objective of addressing the major debts created, close to 90% of the debts, has been created by 31 December 2014. That's the situation. It is true that the policies implemented by our Government since the start of its mandate to facilitate debtors have created genuinely good conditions, so that we have positive effects on the recovery of debts. So far, these debt settlement policies have also really contributed to the improvement of ECA's finances. So, firsthand, we know how positive it is to legislate which facilitates the insured, as it is difficult to collect, in particular, the large volume of old debts. I repeat that around 90%, to be precise, 87.8% of the debts, in the CRL - in which you are constantly saying that the debts are growing - are cumulated until 31 December 2014 and, because they are old debts, they have large increments. It is impossible for these people to respond to these debts if we do not find the best methods to help them. We will, however, prove that this delay was in their interest, because very quickly many of the debtors who owe up to EUR 3 000 will be put under control at thirty-six instalments. You're gonna tell me, why didn't we just do it for them in the first place? Because the law should be dealt with uniformly and in the negotiations it was a matter of completing the whole institutional framework. That's why we didn't make the arrangements for them right away. But there are other issues which we need to resolve. In the hundred and twenty instalments, all debtors of up to EUR 20,000, regardless of the assets situation, will enter to pay them back. Of course, from EUR 20,000 to EUR 50,000, there will also be some economic criteria for companies to respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u8	Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. I have not understood, Minister, the separation you have made. Are there any good and bad debtors before 31-12-2014? Before 2009, did you separate them? Are we gonna separate them before 2004? It is unacceptable to separate. So I will tell you the elements of the CRL, which operates institutionally and does not separate, does not operate politically. According to the latest CRL figures, published on September 30, the number of debtors amounts to one million two hundred and eighty-four thousand and the amount of outstanding debts to 26,135,000 euros. That is where the debts of the OAU were added and the total amount is about EUR 300,000,000,000. So, from your point of view, you must find the best methods so that a large amount of them can be collected or as much as it can be collected. This will also benefit EVA, but I believe that the possibility of revising also the high insurance contributions that you have imposed, which are constantly increasing from 1-1-2018 to 1-1-2018, will increase both for farmers and for free traders. So this target needs to be hunted day after day, so we can give those who want and can regulate and pay. Six months now you've been telling me you're looking for the best methods. But the Ministry of Finance found the best method in one day and brought us an amendment which is being discussed today and reduces increases, fines, etc. dozens or hundreds of millions of euros, and you're looking for it six months? If that's possible! You have to make these ministerial decisions immediately. You said that they would be issued in the next few days - within 2017 I hope this will be - so that at least half a million people, who fall under these accusations, can join. Now how they join, how many will flee or how many will not have the opportunity, this will be seen by the ministerial decision. However, I think that the time spent was very important. It's been a while. This ministerial decision must be adopted so that, as laid down in Article 15, insurance contributions can be regulated in the three categories I mentioned before. There are too many of those who I believe will respond. In addition, in the extrajudicial compromise, if you want to give us an update, insurance contributions must be counted on the fingers of the one hand those who have already joined, due to the difficulties and the conditions of the extrajudicial compromise. Therefore, Minister, once again I believe that you have not done what you should. But belatedly, you can give it a chance. The number of seizures made every day in bank accounts due to debt is too great. There's a thousand seizures a day. If some of them can and want - obviously not the whole - by means of the arrangements that you yourself have recommended - and this month has happened - they must do so. We cannot delay another issue which is beneficial to everyone, to the insurance funds, to the debtors themselves, to the whole of society, which will not be called upon to pay high insurance contributions. I would ask you, therefore, to specify your work and, if it is actually in 2017, at least we have something specific we can inform the citizens and the interested parties in order to make the arrangements in the next few days. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too. Please, Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Kegeroglu, I didn't say what you gave me. Of course, one is dizzy to hear that 90% of the debts were created before 2015. You're also dizzy, and you're telling me that I'm separating the debtors before and after. I didn't do that. I said something very simple. When one has debts five, ten, fifteen, twenty years and the longer one spends, the harder one is to respond. Indeed, it is a cumulative provision that we will bring and it is important to deliver, not just to bring it quickly. We're really improving, because that's what we're doing all the time, as you've noticed. Despite the initial legislative commitments, we are always trying to achieve even better conditions, because all of this - the Greek people know and never hide it from us - requires a successful negotiation on the part of government officials. It is precisely at this time that we are successful in achieving even better conditions for these debts to be repaid. Because they are the old debts more burdened, due to the long time elapsing, with the highest increases, this further favours the old debtors before 2015, and it is indeed the large volume of debtors. We owe those who have been hit by the policy of the previous governments to manage them even better, even more efficiently. Despite what you're saying, we're causing debtors because we're increasing contributions, it's counting. In 2017, 623m euros paid smaller debts compared to 2016, we are talking about them, because the employees always pay what they pay. So they were asked to pay EUR 623 million less. We will, of course, receive more, even though they were asked to pay less, because they are fewer debtors and that is why we have a response close to 70% of the non-wages insured. And we have the greatest collection that has taken place over the past few years. In the next few years, after deduction from the basis for the contributions paid in the previous year, which we had in the initial period, we will have at least EUR 500 million less contributions paid by the free traders. Lawyers, about 19%, pay no contributions. You have taken on your neck the entire branches, which have been destroyed by an unwise reaction to a system which favoured the world of work and, of course, the workers, as shown by the results that I have just mentioned. We'll see about next year. We will also see the relevant ministerial decisions on the out-of-court settlement of all those who are close to 90% will regulate their debts and is the large volume of this arrangement. We will make an account of the best, and we will then talk about specific issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u12	When will the decision be taken, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u13	I told you, within the days.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u14	And we move on to the next questions which the Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer, Mr Apostleou. We will begin with the first under number 615/11-12-2017 in the first cycle of MP Trikala in the Radical Left Coalition, Christos Simorellis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Revision of the criteria for selecting the exploitation for action 10.01.04, reduction of water pollution from agricultural activity". Here, Mr Simorelli, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. One issue concerning the rural world of the Trikala Prefecture is the revision of measure 10.1.2004 ‘Reduction of water pollution from agricultural activity’, which belongs to the Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020 in measure 10. This action aims to reduce the pollution of water by nitrates and other polluting inputs in order to turn the Greek farmer into environmentally friendly agricultural practices, without jeopardising the yields of his production and income. The Ministerial Decision under number 1013/95296 sets out the eligibility criteria and the criteria for selecting the holding with the corresponding moleculosis. According to this decision, paragraph 8 is prioritised in areas with poor chemical status of groundwater systems. These areas are rated up to 100 molecules, and there is a second criterion, which concerns protected areas "NATURA" etc., which can give an additional 20 molecules. The agricultural parcels shall be certified by electronic means. And the agricultural parcels are categorised on the basis of the Water Residential Land Management Plan of Thessaly. According to the map, the whole Regional Unit of Trikala is located in a area of good chemical composition of groundwater. Therefore, crops in areas where nitrate pollution problems are present are excluded from the measure under discussion have been assessed, although their groundwater is in good condition. The above characterisation of the good or poor quality of groundwater systems was carried out in the context of the preparation of the Leukan Residue Management Plans by the Special Secretariat for Waters. Since the emergence of nitrates and other polluting agents in groundwater is a very serious threat to public health, because Greek farmers are aware of the environmental protection and seek to be integrated into the action and because the interest of the Trikaline farmers is too great for the integration of crops into this action and from the current elements of the previous programme, the response and the results have been positive, the Minister is asking whether it is in his intention to amend the inclusion criteria to this measure in order to achieve the real objective of the programme - which is to reduce water pollution by agricultural activity - so that farms with good water and serious pollution problems are not excluded and to prevent the Trikala farmers from being excluded from the action.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u16	Thank you. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u17	First of all, my dear colleague, let me say that this is indeed a serious matter. But nitrate-sensitive zones are managed in accordance with a specific European directive on the protection of waters of agricultural origin. According to this directive, therefore, each Member State should, inter alia, define which zones are vulnerable, that is, which areas are the areas where the waters are derived and which appear to be increased concentrations of nitrates. These are the vulnerable areas. So we, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment - and I tell you that the initiative has been taken by the Ministry of the Environment - codecision, taking into account the nitrate prices in the areas concerned, in groundwater, in surface water and the results of tests which are carried out through the man-made pressures in these water basins. So we come to a point and characterise these areas as vulnerable zones and we are obliged to draw up the necessary action programmes to reduce the nitrate pollution in the area. As provided for in the directive, it is the implementation of the action programmes which will lead us to reduce nitrate pollution. Of course, it is clear that the implementation of the planned action programmes is compulsory for producers and is not supported. In the context of the implementation of the work you mentioned, however, the drawing up of action programmes in vulnerable areas - already drawn up and delivered in April 2018 - will draw up the corresponding action programmes in those areas for which, of course, this year's intervention is multiplying the areas in relation to the previous regions - and because you realise that this has led us to an increased budget in this particular measure, it has been considered necessary to establish selection criteria so that we can meet the obligations. Regulatory, however, the selection criteria concern only the environmental targeting of the measure and can only change when they have been completed, when all the action programmes, namely after April 2018, have been updated, which we aim to have completed this process. What I have to say to you is that, within the days - we believe by the end of the year, as we have committed ourselves - this measure will be called for. And of course, once again, we emphasise that the integration of a farm into this measure excludes their integration into organic farming, which will also be announced in a few days' time. More I'll tell my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u18	Mr. Simorelli, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u19	I fully agree with the Minister that we have an increase in the budget for this measure. Still, the Trikala's out again. And there are several of those farmers, the growers, who are insisting on Trikala and think that it is an injustice that is being done specifically in the Trikalon Prefecture, while a few kilometres below - at least that is not questionable - have already been put into this programme. It has also been shown that, with this programme, farmers and environmentally friendly, but with fewer fertilisers, they can also have less costs and hence more profits. I insist that the farmers insist in Trikala that this is indeed an injustice and I would ask that this injustice be lifted, Minister, even in part.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u20	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, if we see such a measure in the income support scheme, then these farmers may, because the land concerned has been multiplied, have a reduction effect. But the targeting of the programme is another. We really want to give priority to the affected areas in terms of water pollution. Of course, it does not mean that from now on we have closed down, because I told you that the criteria we have set we will see what they will give us in April 2018 and, from there on, because there is a possibility of modification, we will see what we can do. But I want - and you agree - to stand in the budget. When we were in the previous programme of 60 million, and now we have reached 180 million - we have tripled the budget - you realise that in such a target we must also ensure that we deal with water pollution. So, in this process, I think everyone should help, let alone the regions in question - I am referring to the Trikala regions - have a very good tradition. However, we cannot escape this aim, since this directive also leads us to that. So we regulatory have imposed these specific criteria. What will come out after April 2018 will see whether it has affected distributions and, of course, always within the framework of the initial objective, which is to address pollution, will review the impact on the aids of the Trikala farmers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u22	We shall now proceed to the debate on the next timely question to the Minister, Mr Apostolos. It is the first with number 642/18-12/2017 a timely question from the Parliamentary Cardiff of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotas Vranjas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The vertical drop in the price of sheep's milk and the real danger to feta". Please, Mrs. Vanja, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u23	This timely question has been timely for some time now. It concerns an important problem of Greek agricultural production, the problem of Greekism. But I wanted to concentrate today on the question of feta, which, in my opinion, is yours, too, the flagship of the PDO products, the products of name of animal origin. We must protect the feta and its protection must be more complex but also immediate and rapid. According to the Ministerial Decision 313025/1994, the milk used to manufacture the feta comes exclusively from the regions of Macedonia, Thrace, Epirus, Thessaly, Central Greece, Peloponnese and Lesbos Prefectures and from traditionally farmed and adapted sheep and goat breeds in its area of manufacture. This means that the existence of Greek sheep and goat milk is a prerequisite for the existence of feta. Of course, the law also sets out the conditions regarding the way in which milk is manufactured and processed. For about a year now, I think you know that, Minister, we have a sharp fall in the price of sheep's milk, which has been dragging the gel. When I wrote the question about three months ago, the price of sheep's milk on the ground was about 80 minutes a litre and unfortunately today it is even lower, reaching 75 minutes. In many parts of the country, manufacturing companies are reluctant to continue long-term cooperation, on the grounds that they do not need more milk. There are cases where producers have started and delivered their milk at an open price and, when the price is finally closed, it closes at the low prices that I have mentioned. I do not have to tell you, of course, that these prices make farms injurious and lead producers either to a fall in livestock or to an abandonment of the livestock and the industry after all. Unfortunately, this descent in the price of sheep and goat milk is followed by the descent in the price of feta by processors, making competition so great that for them the issue of survival is now very important, especially for the small cheese shops in the country. Mr Minister, if this free fall in the price of milk and feta, we will surely lead to the economic extermination of both farmers and cheese farmers. So today, I'm going to ask you two questions. Are all those checks carried out to ensure that the feta - I mean at all stages of production - has the characteristics defined by the law, as regards origin, the composition of milk and the method of manufacture? The second question is whether the Ministry intends to adopt mixed control scales so as to respect legality at all stages and production and processing of the product. Finally, does the Ministry intend to change the law of ratification so that the fines operate dissuasively? If you want, I can also propose to you. Instead of horizontal fines in the event of infringement, we could fines depending on the turnover of each undertaking, which commits an infringement. I'm going to go on in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u24	Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, your topical question is very important because it addresses a major issue, namely the control of the feta market, which is essentially linked to the need to draw up a national strategy for feta farming, because it is the most important instrument, I would say, for the support of sheep and goats. As far as the existing system of controls is concerned, there is clearly room for improvement, despite the very unfavourable conditions of lack of economic resources and people, because we have been aware of our subsistence, both in the centre and in the regional services, both in the Ministry and in the other regional authorities, in the DAGs, etc. However, the synergies exist between both "ELGO - DIMITRA" and "DAMOK" as well as with EFET. Furthermore, we are making use of the assistance of the Anti-Fraud Coordination Centre, in cooperation with which - and they will continue to carry out - coordinated checks of common scales with the presence of the Economic Police. However, all these good practices want to be strengthened, and we are looking forward to doing so. We have talked many times about the need to introduce clear rules and transparency into the milk and meat market. We have managed, after a great deal of insistence in Brussels, to legislate on the compulsory labelling of the milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-milk-bsttttttttttttttttttttttttt country country, which the country in the country in the country in the country in the country in the country, which the country's/t-bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbs/t-bs into into into into into into into the You realise that this is a very serious issue, because fraud in the food market in general, but also in particular in feta, is a fraud which is well organised - and I say it as Minister - and has already been established. That is why, once again, in order to be understood by all, we will be strict in monitoring the implementation of this regulation, especially for those who are obliged to apply it, not because we want to protect the Greek consumer - it is important, and this parameter - but above all because we want to defend the feta, a product that is a flag of geographical indications not only in our country but also in the European Union, because such tactics, if I stress this - will undermine this product. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, give me a minute, because this is very important. For these reasons, however, we also need an exchange of information, a unification of information and the relevant ministries, the Ministry of Finance. We have now developed a communication, particularly with the cooperation of the Economic Police. But, as you can see, this communication must become more intensive. We are working towards this. I will, however, tell you in my dentext and other issues that are really related to the further development of these mechanisms.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u26	Mrs Vanja, you have the floor again for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. I agree that fraud and misleading are very well organized. That is why I will insist on the control mechanisms. I disagree with the current situation, with having three different control mechanisms, the FEFET, the DAGs and the ELGO, with duplication of powers and ultimately without the right work that needs to be done. So you're gonna have to see this as a ministry. We also need to pay very great attention, I said it before and I will say it again, to sanctions and fines, so that the fines can really be repressed and fines can be operated as a mechanism so that they do not in the end, whoever does, whether they are processing companies or retail businesses. Indeed, on the basis of evidence, we have a fall in the sales of feta in the country. I will say more to prove what you said, that there is a very well-organised system. Of course, there is a decrease in the sales of feta in the country, due to the decrease in consumption. This is the result of the crisis. However, the total amount of milk products produced remains stable. This dramatic decrease in the price of raw material is therefore not justified and is a unique phenomenon, contrary to any principle and practice of trade and the market. So the reasons why they can justify this phenomenon I have summarised them in four: The first reason is the existence of really large quantities of imported milk, which is finally "Hellenic" and is used to manufacture the so-called feta. The second is extensive fraud, either by using other milk or by a different method of manufacture than the one laid down by the law. I mean overfiltration, which uses much less milk to produce the same amount of feta, supposedly feta. The third reason is fraud and misleading. This may be a new element, Minister. I am referring to the fraudulent and misleading that occurs outside the borders, when in Greece it produces white cheese, which leaves the country as white cheese and on the way it is repacked and reaches the final consumer as feta. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] The fourth reason is the use of cheap raw material, often unauthorized, in relation to the law. I am talking about concentrated milk, which is used to produce other Greek cheeses. And finally the sheep and goat milk remain indisposed and do not need to produce the feta. The reason why I started the question is that I read, as you have read, and I imagine, in the summer, a news, according to which a large Greek dairy industry concluded an agreement with a large British retail chain for the supply of slices at a price of € 4.30 pounds. In fact, the chain has broken an existing exclusive agreement with another Greek dairy industry and is obliged to pay a fine because it broke the agreement, the astronomical amount of EUR 750,000. According to the data we have from the cheesemakers, the manufacture of a kilo of slices, without the price of the raw material, is about 80 minutes a kilo. And I'm talking about the collection, the maturation, the curdling, the packaging and the repackaging. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need a minute, Mr. President. So, in order to make a slice of 4,30 euros a kilo of production rather than a selling price, the cheese farmer should not make money and the producer should be paid for with 87 cents a kilo. Both have a sustainability limit today or yesterday. We know, based on the cost of production in Greece, that 90 minutes per kilo for sheep milk for the producer is almost deterrent to continue producing. It is obviously neither the Government nor the Ministry's responsibility to determine the market prices and the sales of the products. However, this, which is a state's obligation, and we need to see it, is to ensure that products of protected designation of origin, PDO products, meet the conditions and do not jeopardise either the credibility or quality or their validity. This can be achieved - I will say the third time - with controls and penalties. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need ten more seconds, Mr President. I know that in the time of the crisis one of the consequences was the declining really of the control mechanisms. I am talking about the ELGAK, which was merged in 2012 and, while it has the know-how, it has neither the means nor the staff nor the institutional framework, which ensures the functioning of the market for food products of animal origin. I really believe that the great risk to feta is not the country's international conventions and old commitments. I believe that the real risk to feta is practices and omissions within the country. In this context, then, I believe that we must do whatever is necessary, at any cost and with any conflicts, so that feta and Greek livestock can be protected from all kinds of dirt and speculation practices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u28	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u29	We agree, Madam President, that we need to deal with this phenomenon of misleading, deception, fraud, whether on the domestic market within the European Union or in third countries, which is what is happening, for example, what you say with this agreement. But I'd go a little bit further than that. Perhaps the issue of self-control is also important, especially at times when we have shortcomings, subsistence, lack of resources, etc.Huh? Does the self-control have to have a substantial role to play there? We must come to an understanding of this which requires confidence, efficiency and, of course, support for this policy, which we already have for the industry. So we are insisting on this, but we cannot at the same time see phenomena like this. We are now calling on the space to create an interbranch organisation so that it can have an entity in this process, to impose what we also say on the self-control, but also to defend this product, to have two conflicting requests for the recognition of interbranch organisations. And, indeed, we have reached a point of getting out of hand, because we do the same: we insist and we will insist that there should be an inter-professional organization to defend the feta. We cannot at the same time fight, be it the international agreements, which in fact many of them were defined, but we are fighting and having positive results, so we cannot at this time have requests for two organisations. I repeat it again that these functions are fragmentary. At the same time, when we have more than EUR 150-160 million to promote exports and, indeed, having put - as I said before - the flag of feta - there cannot be fragmentary functions. That is why I once again call on the stakeholders to come to a national understanding on the establishment of an inter-branch organisation. I would also like to make an application to farmers: Organize yourselves! There is a legislative framework and I would say that it has become very flexible, particularly for groups and producer organisations, because we cannot at the same time have cooperatives - there are examples of how well they keep prices in this period, the last year that we are going to do these interventions, whether they are compulsory registration, and all that is interconnected, and we have others on a downward path, without a particular reason leading in this direction. So on their side, too, we need self-control and organisation, so that we can move forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u30	Penalties! And sanctions, they don't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u31	There are penalties. There is the legislative framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u32	We are entering the last timely question for today, the number 643/18-12-2017 of the MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition, Christos Karagiannides, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the free concession of the use of two properties in the Municipality of Drama. Here, Mr Karayannides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the framework of Law 4447/2016, the creation of Green Points with the responsibility of Grade I OTAs, spaces that will be demarcated and shaped with the appropriate infrastructure and equipment, so that the citizens can place separate collections of recyclable materials or used objects, in order to promote them for recycling or reuse. Educational activities may also be carried out in this area to raise public awareness. In the creation of such a Green Point, the Municipality of Drama wants to move forward. And that is why he has asked you with complete file a parcel of twelve thousand square meters area, which is on the Mylopotamos farm. The second one asked by the Municipality of Drama is also a plot for the creation of a green and recreational area, which will result in the improvement of the life of the inhabitants of this region. The cost of maintaining this farm will not be borne by the Ministry. The space will also be maintained further, because it has been left for several years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, our ministry and, of course, the government in general have as their main aim the improvement of living conditions, particularly in the province and in the countryside. You realise that, in this operation which we believe, following requests made, contributes to improving the environment and the quality of life of local communities. Therefore, in this context, we have approached the two demands of the Municipality of Drama for the granting of two properties of the Ministry. The first is the creation of a Green Point by the Municipality of Drama, which serves the need for rational management of solid waste, with the main axes of reducing, re-use, sorting at source and recycling. It's a big deal. And, indeed, we absolutely need to help. Furthermore, the 2016 Regional Waste Management Plan of the Region of East Macedonia and Thrace provides for the installation of thirty-seven Green Points, of which two are in the Municipality of Drama. The development of green networks is therefore the main objective of our national policy. And that is why in the next few days - the process has already been completed - I will sign the free concession, the use of an area of 12.9 acres in the Mylopotamus area of the Drama Regional Unit to serve the abovementioned purpose. I come to the second concession, which concerns a thousand eighty-seven-seven-seven-seven-seven-mile property in the Drama Separate. This is an action which will help upgrade the quality of life of the Municipality of Drama, which will be implemented through the creation of green and recreational areas that the municipality intends to build in an area of one thousand eight hundred and seventy-seven square meters, which is of course the management of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. Since, therefore, this action is part of the general framework for the utilization of the Ministry's properties for public benefit, it will soon be signed. And, as you know, my dear fellow Member, through the concession of these two properties will serve the needs of the local society and will make better use of these properties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u36	Please, Mr Karayannides, you still have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the concession, Minister. I have nothing to say about this one. Let me tell you - I take this opportunity to do so - that there is an area that you have visited. It's the Drama Smoke Institute. It has a long history of the building and the organization. I think that we need to look seriously and in an organized way from the new year, to have a debate, how we can take advantage of the possibilities of this service, which is unique in Greece, but also how we will save the building itself, which has been found to be preserved. Let's see, in other words, how this service can be relaunched. At the moment we do not have control of cigarettes circulating in our country because of the non-operation of the Tobacco Institute. So we can have a conversation in the new year, see how this service will be organised, so that we can work again and be able to control Greece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u38	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, I think we are responding to something that is useful. I just want to say on the occasion that we grant property to self-government not only for public purposes, but also more generally, I would say that we have set ourselves the goal of making use of rural property through the concession to young people, new entrants, to collective bodies. That is why, at this time, we also have regional selfgovernment - particularly for the implementation of the Rural Development Programme - a relationship which is aimed at making use of all these possibilities for the benefit of rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Training measures for persons exempted from penalty due to mental or mental disorder and other provisions". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 14 December 2017 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. Does the House agree? Mr Pafilis, Parliamentary Representative of the JRC, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, the government, by continuing the same practice as the tabling of amendments, and of proprietors, has now exceeded all limits, all categorically authoritarianism. I am talking about the amendment concerning the criminalisation of anti-auction activities. After having brought it back and withdrawn it, but it will bring it back, this disgusting amendment that hits the right to strike, now comes to criminalise the action and mobilisations against the auctions of the people's housing, which not only protects it, but, as it seems that this is exactly what will happen in the future, it comes with an unacceptable amendment, which we ask the government to withdraw today. And we say in advance that, if he does not withdraw it, we shall vote for a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u43	Minister, you have the floor. You want three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u44	They're coming and they're giving up. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of each parliamentary term, the House has the kindness to share with the Members of the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House. I would ask the President of the House to share the Criminal Code from now on. I have already given to photocopy and to share - I shall submit it immediately - Article 334 of the Criminal Code, so that all Members can make a comparison of what is being dealt with in the existing legislation and what is changing. If you want, Mr. Paphie, we can read the article together, because you said that mobilizations are being criminalised, etc. The addition referred to in paragraph 3 of Article 334 of the Criminal Code shall be as follows: As far as pacifism and public spaces are concerned, nothing changes. It remains the order as it had been since 1950. It's the text of the law in force. We added this line, because electronic auctions will now take place in private places, which are the offices of the notaries. In 1950, when the Criminal Code was passed, there was no such provision that we should include in the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u45	There are two other paragraphs, Minister. It's the self-determined one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u46	That's exactly what we're telling you. This has been added to the layout. So, what's added? As is the case with public auctions in the pacifist courts - and if you want me to explain this in particular - since 1950, it will also apply to this case, which I have just read to you. I would ask you, Mr President, to share the existing provision with all my fellow Members, to see exactly where the addition is being made. Because you think that what is the amendment, paragraph 3 is new. It's not. The new paragraph in question is the addition that I read to you: 'or in a place used by an auction officer in the process of enforcement'. [[At this point, Minister Stavros Kontonis presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Because now the article - and this is the case, we do not change it - was only the case for public spaces, such as the pacifist courts. That's not where we're changing. Can we come to an understanding? I can explain it to you as many times as you want. For pacifism and other public spaces, nothing changes. The order was valid and valid. What's going on? It extends, because there is a gap now, since we have electronic auctions. We extend the same thing to the notaries' offices that will carry out the electronic auctions there. What kind of movement are you telling me about first residence? I, Mr Pafile, know that I am facing you seriously and I am explaining a line of legislation that the government brings. So why do you say further criminalisation? Shouldn't what is envisaged for natural auctions also be foreseen for the offices of notaries? I believe that you cannot deny this protection when an auction officer, a notary, is attacked on his premises that will make the electronic auction. So what applies to public auctions in the pacifist courts, this same thing will also apply to the offices of notaries. That's nothing else. Because, unfortunately, what did I find last night, following some broadcasts? Some who appeared on the channels - fortunately, those I have heard were not legal - thought that Article 334(3) is a new paragraph, it is a new provision. And I repeat that is true. That is why I gave the relevant article, to share with all the Members, to compare the two provisions and to see what is added. The principle of good legislation, ladies and gentlemen, requires the rapporteurs of the laws to bring to the House not only a line - because we could have brought a line and it could have been clear - but to bring the article together with accession so that there is no situation pending on certain issues. I would therefore like to say to you - and I can tell you at all times, in particular - that we have nothing new here, except that the notary must be protected against illegality, which can be done in his office. And to equilibrium the notary's action, that is, the work he's doing in his office, the one he's doing in the peace court. And in the peace court, what is persecuted in the law doesn't change. We are not changing anything at all, Mr Palhei, and I want you to understand that. In the case of public physical auctions, those in force in the provision of the law continue to apply. Do we agree on that? If you're telling me you're arguing about this order...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u47	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u48	But is it possible to disagree with that? I'll tell you why it's incomprehensible what you're telling me. What is the case with the notary's action, if he makes a natural auction at the Peace Court, why shouldn't he also apply to his private place? In 1950, when the law was passed, there were certainly neither electronic auctions nor internet nor anything. But now, shouldn't this man be protecting him when he does the same thing he does in the courtroom in his office?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u49	Indulgence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u50	You saw, Mr. Gioka. Now we're actually here. You think she'll stay in custody. I'm telling you, if it was in the private sphere, that we'd stay in custody, that we wouldn't change anything, but here it performs a public function, which, because of the nature of this operation, is that someone can perform an electronic auction...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u51	Auction is a private issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u52	But what do you say, Mr. Voridis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u53	Civil claims.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u54	You're welcome, Mr. Voridis. If there is to be a debate, ask for the floor, but not that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Voridis, if that's where you want, say it publicly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u56	It shall take place in the context of civil proceedings.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u57	I would like to say, however, that we cannot have two yards and two weights. I address you for holding the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u58	You're being indicted the other day.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u59	So, what are you telling us? Can we change the 1950 law and indulge in the courtrooms? Is that what you suggest? Because we do not change the law in terms of his direction, but we say that what is true in the peace courts will now also apply to the offices of the notaries, precisely because the notary does the same job, but does it with other means and in another place. I want you to understand this, that there is no further provision here, except for a new situation, which in 1950 could not be predicted from anywhere. She's new. That is why it is understood that what is true in the pacifist courts will also apply to offices, since people are doing this public function. I mean, they're auction employees. For the rest, we're not interfering. So I want it to be understood what the provision is. I repeat, then. Why am I saying this? There is one misinformation that Article 334(3) is a new whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u60	It's not. Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u61	That is why I have asked for the existing provision to be shared, to make a comparison, what is there and what changes. Perhaps you too have fallen victim to this disinformation. But if we only limit it that it extends to their own office, then I think you're wrong. For I repeat, once again, that the same function they perform in the peace courts and are protected in the way they are protected, we extend it to their office. I think it is very clear and there is a need to stop the misinformation at some point. I repeat, Mr President, that we could only bring the specific addition, which is a line. We do not do this because, based on the principle of good legislature, the article must be recast, so that there are no gaps and that there are questions to the lawmaker after the amendment or after this amendment has been added. I want it to be understood to everyone what the provision provides for. If we disagree on something, to mention it, but now to have a general and vague debate, that goes beyond every limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u62	What does the JRC say now? We didn't hear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u63	Mr Vorides, because you were not here, Mr Pafilis and the Minister wanted to reply. The amendments normally come and are discussed after the rapporteurs' suggestions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u64	Okay, that's important, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u65	That's right. However, because the Minister wanted to respond, we exclude this amendment from the others, which will come on time and, if you want to put yourself on the table, you will necessarily be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u66	We'll be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u67	But that will only be done for this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u68	We'll be placed now after the conversation opens.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Palphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u70	Look, Minister, the new one is that hundreds of thousands of first homes come out in the hammer. That's the new one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u71	No, Mr. Paphie, it's not new! That's inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u72	Let me put myself in. I didn't interrupt you at all. I listened very carefully.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Paphie, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u74	The new situation is that. Have a good reading of our announcement. We do nothing wrong with information. Read it well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u75	I haven't seen her.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u76	We say that there are preconditions for this and for the self-determination of violence and repression against those who are protesting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u77	No, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u78	That's the essence and the meaning.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u79	If you'll excuse me...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u80	Who told you that we agree with the precedent there? I didn't understand, I mean. Who tells you we agree with what is said about auctions?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u81	I told you what the precedent was.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u82	Minister, would you like me to give you the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u83	So the new one, now with yours...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u84	I told you what the precedent was.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u85	Let me finish. It's a political matter. That is a sign of this, so read us the explanatory statement because you are bringing this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u86	Listen a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u87	Read what you're saying. What do you think? To be auctioned, to avoid banks, etc. That is all the arguments and that is what is going to happen from the new year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u88	Mr. Contonis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u89	First of all, if I take the cash into account exactly what you said - and I think I am doing it correctly - you are making a fear of the future here. You say it now that the conditions are being established. I'm telling you, there's no condition being made. Why? I'll explain it to you. And I want in good faith, as I hear you, to listen to me. The conditions set out in the Act today are the conditions for protection over time, as provided for by the Law on an auction staff member. As the law has, therefore, decided that this man must be protected in the performance of his duties, because the auctions so far have only been in public areas, but so much so we feel today that the same man for the same work must be protected if the auction makes him in his office. If you disagree with the protection of the employees of the auction in the course of an auction in a public area, that is another thing. You have a structural refusal to protect the employees of the auction.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u90	It's not about protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u91	It's absolutely about protection. Secondly, you are wrong by linking it to the first residence. Mr. Pafile, the government, you know, when he took over the country's rule, found a zero legislative scope for protecting the first home, because the law protecting the first home of borrowers had exhausted its validity on 31-12-2014. We have legislated to protect the first residence by reforming the law of Katselis by Mr. Stathakis. And there is now an absolute protection of the first home of borrowers who have received housing loans and whether they are asking for legal protection from the peace courts and who are taking it temporarily or who have legal decisions. So I say to you that there is complete protection in respect of the first residence. That is precisely why, Mr Pafile, no one has today found - not you, but no one - a first home borrower, who has been deemed to be in need of protection and this first place of being auctioned. There's no one. Furthermore, it is well known that electronic auctions are about the big ones and the 'big sharks', which received loans of not EUR 50 000, but millions, Mr Pafile - made the villas and made the money out. I am telling you, for example, that several electronic auctions have been carried out today and are concerned solely with this issue. So you are not right to say that this provision is linked to the first residence. This provision is only linked to the protection of notaries and harmonises a real situation, which we have before us, and it is electronic auctions, with what is envisaged in the law so far. I want you to understand me and I really want to tell you that - not to put second thoughts behind your mind. What I am saying to you is nothing else, frankly, also addressed to the legal community and to the people who hold the law. Tell me: Shouldn't the law not have provided for something, why wasn't the electronic auction in the 1950s voted on by the Criminal Code, anticipate it now and leave a field of action for these people, which is the conduct of the auction, uncovered by the law? So, should we have two weights and two weights? So, for these notaries who go to natural auctions, what was the case with the others who carry out electronic auctions is not the case? What Mr Giokas said,'remove the first', has one logic. There will be harmonisation. However, no notaries carrying out a public duty are auction agents, leave them unprotected. It is not for now that there is a tension, such as, for example, that a lunatic enters his office and opens his head, but for twenty years from now, that there will be no question of crisis and first home, beyond the fact - that is important - that so far there is no first home that has arrived at the auction. Watch out for that. I want to highlight this thing. If there is a first home from private debts, not a borrower from a housing loan, that is another story. You too understand that the legislative authority cannot intervene there. Because there the other one tells you that "Giokas owes me, I want to take my money, I can't be destroyed." What are we going to say to him that 'no, destroy', that 'no auction' is going to happen? I repeat again and I say this to all my fellow Members, who know that they are well-faithed and listened. There is no matter of first residence. This provision shall not be combined with either first residence or with anything. It harmonises the legislative regime for natural auctions and for electronics, that is, those which are not made in public spaces, as stated in the provision. This is precisely what the provision says: 'in public space, in the office'. In other words, the legal consequences are identical, whether or not the auction is carried out, as the law so far provides and we are not changing anything about it, with what is done in the notary's office. Mr President, I think I have provided sufficient explanations to remove any misunderstandings or misinterpretations of this provision. We are doing nothing new with regard to the procedures before the peace courts. Let's agree on that. I'm glad Mr. Voridis agrees. Nothing new. The only addition that comes in is the protection of notaries in their office when they carry out an electronic auction. In other words, the legal consequences of the laws on natural auctions and electronics are now being transferred. That's all. At all times I am at the disposal of any fellow Member to explain to him, in particular, whether he has any further questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u92	The floor has been requested by Mr Theocharopoulos and Mr Vorides.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u93	Will the rapporteurs talk or whoever wants?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u94	Mr Theocharopoulos was asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative. Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u95	Minister, I heard you. First of all, you are badly in this position today. A'supervisor' had to come for the tens, ever-growing, amendments. It is not possible to continue this way. Mr President, I know that the Bureau has also dealt with this matter. We can't go on. Many of these amendments, in fact, are very important, like this one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u96	This is the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u97	This is the only of the Ministry of Justice, but it raises other issues. They are also amendments by the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Rural Development. These are very serious issues and we cannot discuss them in this way. It is not possible in a few hours' time to discuss all these issues. We denounce this process, Mr President, and finally ask the government to take initiatives. And since it has not been doing so for two and a half years, the Bureau of Parliament has to take the relevant initiatives to solve them. It is not possible to go on with such a debate, as is now the case with these issues. Now we go to the specific amendment. Yes, Minister, you referred to the principle of good legislation. I call on SYRIZA colleagues to say: is this the beginning of good legislation today? Is this the principle of good legislation, which we are doing on all these issues, without costing on many issues of the State General Accountancy, with amendments that came last night, this morning? That is the principle, in essence, of incorrect legislation! We're going to the two-stage and two-stage issues. I saw a selective sensitivity, Minister, and you will answer. Because you often refer to the reasons why you have been elected, what you say in the explanatory statement, that 'your words are forbidden on grounds of overriding public financial interest, which are, on the one hand, aimed at supporting the national economy, through the absolute execution of the auctions as a means of strengthening the liquidity of the financial system', I imagine that it is a reason that does not express the programming statements of your Government in 2015. And I'm talking about September, because many times you ask about when we're talking. We're talking about September 2015. I do not imagine that you have been elected on this point. And, of course, not only do colleagues from other parties show you here...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Theoharopoulos, speak on this subject, because it is not a normal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u99	The explanatory statement to which I referred is on the subject. In the auctions you have a selective sensitivity. Indeed, it is not a new provision, Minister, to make it clear, it is clear. You are, however, asking, in essence, for the own-initiative procedure. That's what the JRC tells you. I would also like to ask you: the own-initiative procedure in the raids of the 'Ruvia' and various other procedures in private spaces, why not?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u100	It works for them, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u101	Why selective sensitivity, Minister, to the own-initiative procedure against solidarity on the issue of auctions? Why is he here, not in universities, in various procedures? Why not exactly the same issues, where we are told that the legal order is really being hampered? So the two standards are proven by the specific arrangements you bring, which are outside your government's programme statements and are also outside, in essence, the equal treatment of citizens, when you have not dealt with cruiser attacks, as I have told you. They have been here in the Greek Parliament and were given the "okay" to prevent these people from being arrested and described by the Government representative as "activistic actions". There, here otherwise. That's not political, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u102	Mr Georgiodas has the floor, as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u103	Mr Vorides will speak as an expert on this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u104	Mr Vorides, you have the floor as a parliamentary representative, replacing Mr Georgioda.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u105	As an expert on this issue, I should like to make an intervention, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we must welcome the government's commitment to conducting the auctions. It's something that shows how committed she is, how committed she is to this task. I am just wondering, ladies and gentlemen, if, perhaps, three or four years ago, by this provision, some of you would be exposed to criminal persecution. The second question, which arises, is that no one can forget that from the "no house in the hands of a banker" now you will legislate the own-initiative prosecution for anyone who is blocking and harassing an auction employee to take the house into the hands of a banker.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u106	Electronic auction, because the other one exists.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u107	Yeah, electronic auction.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u108	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u109	So, what really do you do to this, except to salute this devotion of yours? So I come here and say this. Would it not be simpler instead of this arrangement that you are now bringing in a regulation that effectively protects the first home? In order not to be fooled now, Mr Minister, that is precisely in view of the deadlock in which the government has found itself in the face of the situation that has been created. Do you bring bread - bread, before the end of the year, a provision on self-prosecuting at the offices of the notaries, why did you remember that there was a legislative gap? You bring it, because this is an obligation in order to properly develop the electronic auctions that have been legislated and obviously there is concern that they are not developing properly. That is what has to be regulated by accelerating legislation with an amendment. Obviously!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u110	What are you telling us?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u111	I would point out that you have made us a legislative preaching here about the completeness of the order. Aren't we now leaving the authority of the order? If you remember good legislation, remember in the context of good legislation not to bring late amendments! Remember, within the framework of good legislation, that you do not bring us twenty-five amendments to discuss them today, when good legislation is cut off! You're not concerned with good law. Another matter you have to deal with, another matter you have to configure. Is it, ladies and gentlemen, specifically this provision integrated - how do you like it? - "it was fair and acted." One such thing is here. It was fair and it was done! What is more worth pointing out and asking is: do you intend to bring in a provision that effectively protects the first home? 'Cause there's a few days left where any protection in the first place is dropped. It's been a few days until the end of the year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u112	By the end of 2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u113	Will you bring in an order? So that's what's important. Instead of bringing the protective device, you brought the fighter provision!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u114	By the end of 2018 it is!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u115	What's wrong with you? Where did you get sad?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u116	By the end of 2018 it is. Everything else, okay, not this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u117	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u118	Good. Okay. So I bring back and ask again: will you then bring a protective provision? That's the question, Mr. Mada. Leave them around - around.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u119	No, around. It's not around.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u120	Because instead of suggesting a protective provision, you are bringing the protection of the employees of the auction, not the borrowers, not the people who have first residence. That is what you are doing today. So here you've made a choice. Don't be fooled here about what your choice is. Get out courageous. The Minister comes out - he did, I can't say - and he makes that choice. So, in this context, it is that you are called upon to sit down, and that is what you will vote on, so that we are all informed, consistent, I imagine, unequivocally in your central and main statements. I, frankly, want to ask my colleagues here. How do you feel? From the movement, from the streets, from 'not paying' to further - I will say, to be full - criminalising this activity! Are we all right? Feeling okay? It's important to feel good!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u122	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u123	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u124	Ladies and gentlemen, I think from Mr Vorides' position that it has become clear that the opposition is curbing. While we started with a argument of the press that social struggles are being 'criminalized' and so on, we have come up with reproach for the government that it does not bring about protection of the first home. So let me tell you, although you know, but you say these things to create a marginal situation of misinformation that protection of the first residence is valid until 31-12-2018. So what new provision are you calling us for? Secondly, you said 'three years ago if these were done, you would be criminally exposed'. Mr Voridis, you know, if you bring me a first home, which has been auctioned, either the public compulsorily, as was done in the peace courts, or the electronics, but which is the first home of a borrower, who has the conditions of the law and the cover of the court judgement, and yet his first place of residence is being auctioned. Then let's talk. This is where you're making cases. The representative of the JRC, Mr Pafilis, has said about conditions in the future. I can talk about this, I can discuss it, you will see again that there are no conditions. But would you say, where, 31-12-2014, you left all people, all borrowers at the mercy of banks? We have acted unilaterally then and you have denounced us that we are legislating unilaterally, you and the troika. We have therefore legislated for the absolute protection of the first residence with the interim judgement of a court, which will judge whether the applicant needs protection. Because you know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that in a general fog that was hidden, and some who had received EUR 1.5 million, EUR 5 million, had made swimming pool villas and did not pay. And who was paying for the broken ones? He paid them, ladies and gentlemen, the taxpayer with the recapitalisations of the banks you had made and with the reductions in wages and pensions. So don't tell us. Perhaps one of the first legislations passed by the government was the protection of first residence. You have left us at God's mercy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u125	What kind of mercy? What about us? Triple protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Voridis, listen to me. On 31-12-2014, the law that you voted for protection had expired and from 1-1-2015 there was an absolute legislative gap. We legislated. That's all to be cleared up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u127	What did you legislate? If anyone's protected, it's only with the law of Katseli.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u128	Triple protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Voridis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u130	But there was something else, which Mr Vorides and Mr Theocharopoulos put it, about the number of amendments. First of all, these amendments here are from the Ministry of Justice and I do not think anyone should object. There are others, I want to tell you this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u131	The ministers are coming?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u132	Everyone will be here, as everyone has come to the committees.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Theoharopoulos, we have said that, do not say the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u134	I would like to say to you this: you know, however, that at the end of the year there is an acceleration of provisions, which cannot come by law alone. So what happens in this case? I want you to approach it well. There are critical provisions that cannot come by law alone, to come by law, to two articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u135	There are critics, there are pharmacies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u136	Please, ladies and gentlemen, let's get it over with, get in the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u137	So I say to you that you are partly right in this. No one's telling you you're wrong. However, bear in mind that we are at the end of the year, there is an urgent situation in which many issues are dealt with by citizens, ladies and gentlemen. These issues are not about the ruling party, the ruling parties, they are about the citizens who are waiting for a solution to their problems.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u138	Your old self don't you remember him, Minister? Because I remember your mentality!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u139	That's where you might be ethical...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u140	Minister, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u141	...but take note of you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u142	Please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u143	Everything has an excuse! Now you're in agreement. It's all justified!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u144	Why are you shouting, Mr. Comrade? Why are you interrupting me all the time?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Bourra, please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u146	So we're saying...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u147	Do you do us a favor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u148	What the MPs are saying now...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u149	The debate cannot be held in this way. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u150	It really can't be. This behaviour is turning to the limits of hooliganism!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u151	Are you talking about hooliganism? Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u152	I'm just saying: Do you want to be labeled like this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u153	Please, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u154	Don't say that another time, or I'll answer it accordingly! Don't interrupt! I'll talk to you, I don't have...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u155	Don't provoke memory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u156	...this to be done...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u157	Please, ladies and gentlemen, let's get this over with so we can get into the bill!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u158	...I said there really is a volume of amendments. Why is that going on? These are the last days of the year and some outstanding issues need to be resolved. We have not brought you any amendments to this volume, nor to the middle of the year nor to the beginning of the year. That there are amendments to the bills, that all exist. But see that here there is a special situation that needs to be regulated and I ask you for your tolerance on this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u159	Please, let's move on to the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u161	All the ministers will come and defend the amendments they table. And beyond that, I think there will be dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u162	Mr. Amyras, we said from the outset it was a parenthesis. The amendments will be debated later. We have to get into the bill. It'll give you a minute. It's not a normal speech. You'll talk later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, give all the time you have given the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, give me as much time as you have given others. The view of the river must be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u165	Mr. Amyras, you have the floor for two minutes and we're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u166	Dear Minister, earlier in reply to Mr Pafilis, you have referred twice to the principle of good legislature. I would therefore like your comment from the position of Minister of Justice on this: Leave today's amendments. Sure, I'll come to them. Yesterday, in the draft Space Law, for the Greek Space Organisation, 20 amendments were tabled. I should like to mention two of them: one has to do with the fan card, which will never be done, and the other with regard to the possibility of the Ministry of Migration Policy for direct assignments to supply various materials or services. Do you think that's a good piece of legislation? Well, I'm asking you, and I'm waiting for a reply, well-meaning. Secondly, the amendment on auctions, the self-defence and the extension of self-defence to private areas, because that is, of course, what this is about...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u167	That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u168	Yeah, just. But there's one more thing and I'll tell you. In the explanatory statement - and that is the news - you say that there is no extension to equal measures and equal weight only between the public space and the private sector, but also to avoid the risk of recapitalisation of banks. Here's the news! In other words, we are officially listening to the government attacking us on the risk of a new bank recapitalisation. I ask you to tell me, since you are the man of this amendment, if we are at such a risk, that we are faced with a new recapitalisation of banks, as is written in the explanatory memorandum to the amendment. Thirdly, Mr President, the amendment to delete debts and fines to tax. I would like, Minister, since this amendment is accepted by you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u169	Mr Amyras, we will not have a debate on the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u170	Wait a minute, Mr President. It is not a debate on the amendment. However, let the honourable Member tell us which companies, for the amount of fines and tax debts, this arrangement is being made. You tell us these are the businesses, these are the fines that will be deleted, so that there are no gray lines and black holes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, too. The Minister will, I believe, be placed in his speech. We're not going to continue here. We shall now proceed to the rapporteurs and to the special speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u173	Mr Aivatidis, you are a special speaker and you will be able to speak in a moment. What's the point of talking now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u174	Because they all talked.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u175	Your parliamentary representative is Mr Rabbit. You will be placed as a special speaker when your turn comes in a little while.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, I would like to speak, as a parliamentary representative, on a point of order for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u177	Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. I think that the useful debate, which was preceded by a previous debate, Mr President, was enlightened by the need to avoid the last-minute amendments. You see how many issues have arisen. You see that there is no time to make an adequate assessment by colleagues of the impact of such a serious amendment. Of course, we have seen a Minister invoking the principles of good legislature and giving us, in part, right of our complaints about this industry of amendments, which is unfortunately common to us. Today, you know, the point is to see, with regard to Mr Pappas yesterday and with regard to Mr Kontonis today, whose bill will have most of the amendments. We'll take out the winter champion. It is not enough to constantly denounce this way of mislegislation. This phenomenon of such amendments must be eliminated on very serious issues. We understand, Mr President, Minister, the need for a number of issues which end at the end of the year, to come to this regulatory framework to be renewed and extended, but not all the amendments of this kind and content are all. And we all know that very well. This has to stop. I think, Minister, it is no longer enough to say: 'There is a right. Yes, that's not supposed to be." This has to end. There were letters sent by the Chief of Officer's Representation to the President of Parliament, but I see no one was moved. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, we continue to make a fool of Parliament's process. We are the first topic in all televisions and newspapers on these amendments that always come at the end of the year. To clarify what is necessary and to discuss them, as we used to do. We have no objections. More than half of them shouldn't have come under these conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u179	Before I give the floor to Mr Tsirka, the SYRIZA rapporteur, I have to say that because there is no automatic record system for speakers, you must state by augmenting the hand that you want to talk about the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, until Mr Tsirkas took the floor, I would like to say that at the end of 2014, when the Samara - Venizelos Government ended its life in December, 60 amendments had been tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u181	Can you get them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u182	I'll file the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u183	Bring them in.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u184	You're causing me. I'm telling you, you were trying to set up something, too. That's what I'm telling you. Don't be a guinea pigeon while you've done things, which were unthinkable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u185	So you're done. That's what you're telling us, the government's life is coming to an end!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u186	Minister, I ask you to tell your speech to stop the debate. Mr. Circas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we have a very important bill. It is clear that the policy of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights aims to protect human rights effectively in every aspect of social life and to develop a modern anti-crime and penitentiary policy plan. This strategic plan aims at improving the conditions of detention and modernising infrastructure, developing human resources, training staff and administration, reducing overpopulation, introducing alternative measures for the reliable assessment of penalties and measures aimed at preventing youth invasion, as well as preparing for reintegration and the creation of health services in prisons in cooperation with the Ministry of Health. Our own policies tend - among other things - to speed up the administration of justice. I will not repeat the evidence submitted a few days ago by the Minister of Justice in Parliament's plenary during the debate on the state budget. It is important, however, to say that the government has succeeded in improving the image of the conditions for the administration of justice and for speeding up the time for the adoption of decisions. Of course, other institutional interventions are needed and we have shown that we have the political will to move on. It is important, however, that the evidence provided by the Minister is that better conditions for the administration of justice and for the acceleration of their own have been achieved. This legislative initiative, like any reform intervention by the Ministry of Justice, aims at the effective functioning of the justice institution and speeding up its award and, in particular, the draft law with the provisions contained in the second part of the bill. So, with the bill we are debating today, the emphasis is on modernising the treatment measures for perpetrators of crimes with mental or mental disorders and on speeding up the administration of justice in particular with a view to transparency. A reference point for the design of this very important piece of legislation was developments in the international and European legal order after 1950, as reflected in fundamental texts for the protection of human rights, as well as in the incorporations of the National Committee for Human Rights, the Citizens' Counselor and the Hellenic Psychiatric Society. There is a considerable change in the existing institutional framework under Articles 38, 41, 69 and 70 of the Criminal Code, putting an end to the conceptions of the previous century, which covered the legislation in force. The revision of these provisions in conjunction with the necessary changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure and the establishment of specific rules for the implementation of the measures provided for, as required by Article 56 of the Criminal Code, is a vital issue if we want to comply with fundamental human rights defence texts. It is thus attempting to give a breath of humanity, of law and of rationalization, on measures for perpetrators of crimes with mental or mental disorders that have been blocked or substantially reduced their apportionment. The only measures for these perpetrators were incarceration in asylum for an indefinite period, with the sole aim of addressing the risk and protecting society, without prejudice to any treatment effect. The measures in this bill have as their main focus the provision of treatment. The obsolete long-term incarceration in immunity units is abolished and in place modern measures, primarily aimed at the treatment, while at the same time ensuring the protection of fundamental property of offenders, as is the case with the whole society. Thus, the traditional concept of treating therapeutic care only in the light of safety is enriched by modern scientific approaches to psychiatric care, as a provision of mental health services and social reintegration. At the same time, emphasis is placed on a quality level of hospitalisation and monitoring that is predetermined by the objective of exclusive penitentiary supervision. This bill, therefore, which implements key political directions of the SYRIZA, amends the institutional framework for criminal treatment of wrongdoers in mentally ill persons. The reference to the momentary terminology of the Criminal Code "unreasonable criminals", which has been found to be dogmatically wrong, abolished and replaced by a more modern and anthropocentric terminology, in harmony with the corresponding terminology of the Civil Code "psychological and mental disorder". It is also abrogated that the inelastic reference to storage in a public therapeutic establishment, which is currently provided for, is replaced by the reference to more appropriate therapeutic measures. The provision of Article 69 of the Criminal Code is also replaced and it is expressly laid down that the court is responsible for enforcing the security measure. In this way, a major problem in imposing the measure is resolved by the Judicial Council and the judicial position is adopted that such a measure can only be imposed after a public hearing has taken place. At the same time, the victim of the wrongdoing is given the opportunity to participate. The provisions of this draft law increase the gravity of the offence which may justify the imposition of the measure and stipulate that the offence must be threatened by a penalty of at least one year and not six months, as currently provided for. They shall be explicitly laid down in the second Article that the conditions for the enforcement of the measure are satisfied by two experts, one carried out immediately after the arrest and at least one expert as close as possible to the court. So the state of mental health, as well as appropriate treatment, is seen. A new way of checking the course of the measure is also laid down by the court with an annual re-check of its own motion, unlike the one currently in force, which was re-checked every three years as to whether the project needs to be carried out. In the event of an appeal being brought, and if the person treated has no defence, it shall be specified that in the proceedings before the three-member court or tribunal, as well as the appeal shall be automatically appointed in accordance with the provisions of Article 340 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In Article 3 of the bill, the rules of Articles 69 and 70 of the Criminal Code extend to persons with reduced charges due to mental or mental disorder when the court considers that there is a risk that other crimes, at least similar, may be committed. Significant interference with Article 18 of the bill is the establishment of the crucial institution of the Public Prosecutor of the treatment measures in order to ensure respect for individual freedoms of the healed and respect for the limitations imposed by the judicial authorities. Cost permits or stays in supervised areas shall also be given to the treated persons, as appropriate at all times to their therapeutic needs. The second part of the bill relates to provisions relating to civil, criminal and administrative courts and is important the new provisions on the issue of a consensual divorce that had previously emerged from the courts with voluntary jurisdiction. It is replaced by an extrajudicial procedure involving their spouses, their proxy lawyers and a notary. In this way it becomes easier and faster for the party to have a consensual divorce. In particular, the spouses' agreement on the resolution of marriage, as well as the agreement on custody, communication and nutrition of minors, when they exist, will be signed in the presence of two lawyers who each represent a spouse and will then be submitted to a notary who draws up a full marriage solution, integrating the spouses' agreement. If it is a religious marriage, the spiritual solution is required in the same procedure as today. This solves the problem of a time-consuming procedure, which has been foreseen so far, which is more than a year in the major prototypes of the country. Marriage can now be resolved consensually within a few days and, as the consultation has shown, society has warmly welcomed these new arrangements. In this way, of course, the relevant chambers are abolished and the courts are dismantled. Under the transitional provisions of the draft law, requests for consensual divorce may be heard by the court. However, it is also possible for those who so wish to resign from the applications pending in the courts and if they follow the new quicker procedure before a notary. Our view is that, with the new regulations, the role of lawyer is being upgraded and legal material is being safeguarded. The spouses' agreements shall be signed in the presence of lawyers who subsequently submit the documents to a notary. In this way lawyers, who in any case took on a difficult role, that of negotiations between spouses, as well as the drafting of the relevant agreements, are recognised as the main actors in the process. Of course, there is no question, in our view, of the unconstitutionality or constitutionality of the new provisions on consensual divorce. The legislator is also free to define how to resolve the marriage, to facilitate the parties concerned, especially - and I think that is reasonable - when they choose to resolve their marriage by consensus. But also in terms of compatibility with EU law, the new provisions are in line with the relevant regulations. The concept of a court, as provided for in these regulations, is broadly understood by other authorities of Member States such as notaries. Likewise, the meaning of the decision is broad, including the notarial documents, with only one condition, of course, that they are enforceable. Under Article 23 of the draft law, Article 686 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended by providing for the possibility of oral redress in the procedure for interim measures, as was the case before the entry into force of the new Code of Civil Procedure. Article 26 aligns the case-law relating to annulling cases before the Council of State and before the ordinary administrative courts, as it exempts from the obligation to attend the court and aligns with that applicable to substantive disputes in the ordinary administrative courts, as well as the procedural proceedings of substantive disputes in all the courts, without prejudice to the procedural interests of the parties. Article 27 amends Article 358 of the Criminal Code so that the breach of the maintenance obligation validated by the notary, in accordance with Article 1441 of the Civil Code, falls within the meaning of and the objective nature of that offence. With the proposed amendment of the Law 4039/2012, Article 29 gives the possibility of presenting political treatment to pro-zootic unions in order to support the accusation in corresponding trials. This regulation also has a great deal of acceptance by pro-zootic unions, from those who participated in the consultation and at the parliamentary hearing of the bodies. Article 31 provides for the possibility of lodging the precursor note after the case has been discussed and before the decision is adopted, by notifying the court of attorneys, so as not to reject the legal instrument or aid which has been discussed. In accordance with Article 33, the organisational positions of prosecutors shall be increased. The statistics of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights show that the number of cases filed annually in the country's prosecutors is growing, while the international commitments made by the country require us to complete these cases more quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, justice is undoubtedly one of the most neural sectors and efforts to improve the quality and effectiveness of the services provided are imperative. This legislative initiative is a realistic, necessary and fully human-centered approach, which really supports and promotes security. With this legislation, the Greek state harmonises and adapts to developments at international and European level, but above all, it ensures real psychiatric care for patients who have committed unfair acts in a way that respects humans - patient and protects society, reducing relapse, i.e. in an effective way. The big bet, following the adoption of the budget and the completion of the third evaluation, is to continue at a faster rate the institutional areas and the necessary reforms needed by the country so that, together with, of course, the end of the memoranda in August 2018, we can move forward to a new era of transparency and the rule of law. The difference of understanding with the forces of counterpopulation, which have ruled the place in previous years, is visible and clear in all sensitive areas. The same is true of how they perceive institutional areas and interventions in the field of justice. For us, the protection of human rights is the fifth function of democracy. The current government also has important work to do in the sensitive area of justice. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President. Our aim is for the Greek citizen to find the refuge for what had been deprived by the previous governments and the Memorandumary Policies, who are responsible and led to this situation the conditions for the administration of justice, which, as we see today, can be further improved. The last Memorandum of 2018, which marks the exit of the country from a period of economic instability and social instability, was passed in the House yesterday. We will spend 2018 in a new period of economic stability and regularity. We too, despite budgetary tightness and difficulties, continue to leave a strong footprint at all levels. We have strong foundations for the institutional reconstruction of the country, the main pillar of which is justice in all its manifestations. The people who have chosen us, because they wanted justice to be done, are asking us for institutional, reformist areas and interventions to reconvene justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u188	Thank you. The rapporteur, Mr Karagunis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u189	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to start my suggestion first by commenting on what the Prime Minister said in his previous speech to the budget on justice. The Prime Minister a little - very surprised at the Civic Opposition because - and I read just his words - "...is trying to raise a question of the government's conflict with justice and constantly attempting to turn justice against the government"! Obviously the Minister here, but also the Prime Minister, too, do not understand. They have not yet understood - and the government as a whole - what a slippery, anti-democratic, anti-democratic, anti-constitutional path the government has entered. The issue of conflict is not raised by opposition. The question of an open conflict between the government and justice arises the government itself and the current Minister of Justice. The question of war towards independent justice, which touches the limits of institutional diversion, is raised by the government itself. And this is not denounced by the New Democracy, by justice. And I ask the President-in-Office: when the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, through its President, criticises you and accuses you of intervention in its work and a resolution calls on you to safeguard fundamental constitutional principles and strengthen judicial independence, is the New Democracy turning justice against you? When the Association of Prosecutors denounces you that, with your public criticism of judicial decisions, you are aiming to manipulate justice and this demonstrates - here is what they say - a democracy that is ill, New Democracy is turning justice against you? When the President of the Council of State, a person in all respectful and worthy, who you have chosen for this post, denounces that you are taking raw action in justice, is that why New Democracy? I told you the day before yesterday that what has happened over the last two and a half years is unprecedented. There is no such case in a European country. Unless deep inside you want to set up people's courts, abolish the courts and decide by help. These are done in other regimes, of which you are nostalgic. Fortunately Greece is still a western state and as long as it goes through our hand, it will remain. Let's go to the bill now: What did we tell you to the committees? That you were unjustified and unexplained to enter the bill and did not allow them, in the interests of rushing to several bodies, to be heard and given their opinion. In fact, the Association of Judges and Prosecutors has also raised this fact in its general meeting. What did the Minister, of course, tell us in committee? 'We are not losing anything that the Union of Judges and Prosecutors will not speak'. Alas! What may interest judges and prosecutors if you amend the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Code of Administrative Procedure, the Code of the Statute of the Courts and, of course, all the amendments you have brought? We understand, of course, why you rushed so fast: that is exactly what I said earlier, that is to say to have a bill on the amendments you have brought! And you yourself are the ones who, until yesterday, have given us lessons of loyalty and respect for parliamentary order and parliamentary procedures. And now the pain has caught you, as the Minister said earlier, for the acceleration! It just shows how hypocritical you are! We now count dozens of amendments that you have tabled. Of course, we will see whether there will be a continuation during the process. And we told you that, if we count them, it is more than thirty amendments in two days. And since you have referred to the sixty amendments, do not confuse, Minister, the parliamentary amendments with the ministerial amendments. Our Parliamentary spokesman will shortly be tabling what ministerial amendments were tabled in 2014 and will be compared. In fact, most were obligations of the Memorandum. You are bringing an amendment - the third in a row - and you are strangling the parties financially. And, indeed, you strangle parties such as the New Democracy - because that is your objective, so you bring the amendment - that is to say, that is to say, that is to say, that it gives all the funding to repay all the loans and all the obligations. This, of course, you don't like it. You want to strangle parties and especially the New Democracy. But that is how you strangle democracy. And you don't understand that the path you're following is very slippery. Of course, there's no way he'll get you out. You are bringing an amendment to the effect that, in a 'photographic' way, you are deleting fines of tens of millions of euros to the higher. The New Democracy officially invited you yesterday to reveal who it was about. Who, Minister and gentlemen of the co-government? Quiet fish! You who, until yesterday, played by the archangels of transparency and chasers of tax evasion, have not said a word. We have told you: bring us a list of the companies to which it relates. Who are you legislating for? After all, why do you not bring it in the proper way, in the normal procedure, and bring it in an amendment? Bring it to the committee, we can discuss it properly, as a bill. You are doing so because, obviously, you are legislating for some people and you are not telling us. You are bringing an amendment, in which you are universally liberalizing the profession of pharmacist. This is an issue that the previous government had completely left the negotiating table with the lenders, which we had definitively and irreversibly rejected. And you, with the proud negotiations that you have done, bring it back again! Do not remember what you were saying before the elections, because it has become a joke, and people know it very well. The best? I heard the Minister - like all my fellow Members - warmly support the amendment on auctions. The defenders of people's homes, the protectors of poor houses! We told you earlier: if you had retroactive power in the law, most of you would have a problem. You would be criminally accountable, ladies and gentlemen of the conflict, you who were yelling and shaking, and you were out of the pacifist courts, and you did what is happening today. It's really what we're saying, it's all paid here! Everyone in New Democracy understands your difficult position, as you are trying to justify the unjustified excuses to all those who have fooled you. Sadly, however, lying has short feet and the worst is that it will be chasing you for too long. I guess as long as you're staying in the government - the shortest time - but also for much later. Now we're going to the main points of the bill. What are you doing with this bill? While you are actually trying in a sense to modernise - and we have said it during the debate in the committees - the legislative framework on measures to treat suffering from mental or mental impairment, in essence - we have stressed it - is not followed by the arrangements introduced with the relevant infrastructures to support any changes in the regulations of the law. You are aware that you must first legislate and then build the infrastructure. This, however, Minister, is not a serious position, because it will, for example, be decided on a therapeutic measure by the court, which will simply not be implemented. For example, you have brought Article 2 on which we have disagreed at the first time. Remove indefinite storage for mentally and mentally ill and provide for a maximum period of time for the therapeutic measure to be imposed for four and ten years respectively. We have stressed that, after this year, there is virtually no provision for these people, because under the current provisions, the court controls every three years if the measure should continue to be implemented. After the expiry of the maximum therapeutic measure, no provision is made for how to deal with these cases. At first...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u190	We've done it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u191	I know, Minister, that you have done. I'll end up there. To explain to the world what has become of parliamentarians. You don't want it? Do you mind? Does it bother you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u192	No, but you give me the impression you don't understand what has happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u193	No, I know very well, Minister, but the people who are watching us, what you have done, too. Don't worry. I'll see you around. You said at first that these cases could be covered by the provisions on involuntary care. We have explained that unintentional hospitalization is requested for the patient, whether the relatives - if they ask for it, or whether there are relatives - or the Advocate-General of the first instance, if there is a re-infringement of the law. We told you, we explained and stressed that it is an extremely dangerous legislation for public security. And finally - with your intervention a moment ago - you are bringing the amendment with which, of course, you recognise the mistake and you are trying to save the provision. But you are mistaken again, because you are confusing the therapeutic measure with the nature of the penalty when you say in the amendment that the therapeutic measure cannot exceed the length of the maximum period laid down in the law. Again, of course, over time, there is no care. That is what Mr Paradoxopoulos will tell you if he comes here. You are confusing the therapeutic agent with the nature of the sentence. Article 22, consensual divorce. We do not have to insist on this article at all. We are opposed to this provision. We have analysed our legal arguments and exposed the legal risks it may cause. The substance, of course, is and is that you are supposed to speed up a process that has already been accelerated with Law 4055 and has nothing to offer beyond legal certainty and legal adventures in the future. As to the problem with the Athens Court of First Instance, we have explained what solution you can find and end the matter. I have not read what Parliament's scientific report on the unconstitutional issues that we have already developed. Let's go to Article 28. We have described this provision as a very bizarre and suspicious provision, because you have not been able to substantiate us scientifically why you are bringing this provision to the law. You have not answered yet what scientific data you are increasing the threshold from 0.2% to 0.8%. We have told you that the Community regulation, which applies globally throughout the European Union, sets a specific threshold of 0.2%. Where did this come from? Date of birth: (a) 1 January 1964. I would repeat to the House that a representative of the Chemistry of the State at the hearing said that he does not understand why such an increase is foreseen and, indeed, he did not rule out that 0.8% is a limit that can lead to dependence. The farmer's representative at the hearing said their productions never exceed 0,2%. In other words, in order for people to understand it, even growers themselves do not ask for it. It is therefore clear that the provision makes it more flexible not to prosecute the cultivation of hemp of this content of tetrahydrocannabinol from 0,2% to 0.8%. With the provisions in force, any product with a content greater than 0,2% is destroyed and criminally prosecuted in the grower. In order to prosecute, specific conditions of the law must be fulfilled: to establish, for example, that overrun of the threshold is not due to external factors - see specific environmental conditions - or other factors unknown to the producer. So the important thing that needs to be answered and we expect to see what you are going to say next is why we are evading the 0.2% threshold. Is it to compensate more producers than the CAP? This is not the case, because the European Union is setting as a limit - as I said before - the 0.2% content, so that the areas used for the production of hemp are eligible hectares for direct payments, such as oil. In fact, Regulation 1307/2013 clearly says that. Read him. It says it very clearly. It is also clear that those who have received aid and who produce more than 0,2% of product will have to repay the aid. [[At this point, the President-in-Office takes over the Vice-President of Parliament, Ms. MARios GEORGIADIS.]] Another essential question: does the 0.8% content refer - and here is, of course, the important - to hallucinogenic properties? Because there are teachers - we were told, of course, by bodies here, but there are other teachers - who consider that 0.8% has clearly hallucinating properties. Let the Greek people hear that. The same thing some FDA consultants believe, with whom we came in contact, do they think? They claim that with an ad hoc opinion of a relevant scientific board, not of course of the EOF itself - listen a little - more than 0,2% content creates psychosomatic dependence that has hallucinogenic effects.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u194	Can you testify to her?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u195	We'll testify, Mr. Mada. And I imagine you'll be placed on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u196	Scientific documentation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u198	So where does all this lead us? They lead us to the conclusion, Mr Manda - because I see that you have also been caught with anguish - that these are very sensitive issues. In fact, the variation in the content is expected to be decided by a joint ministerial decision and not by a law to come to discuss them and testify to your scientific opinion, and we should also present our own, as must be done. So it'll be good if the Minister gets the order back now... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ...and discuss the subject in detail, Mr. Manda, with scientists who know it and then decide whether, in what way and under what conditions, this provision should come, because it is very strange and very suspicious, Mr. Manda, and we are waiting for the Minister's explanations. The rest about the articles and the amendments, I'll see you later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr. Karaguni. I would like to inform the House that the list of speakers has been closed. I would also like to tell you that there are seventeen ministerial amendments and six parliamentary amendments. Once the recommendations have been concluded by the special speakers, whoever is in the Chamber, he will take the floor to support his amendment, as was the case at yesterday's plenary sitting. We will also make the calculation of the years and during the speech of the rapporteurs, to inform you of the end of today's sitting. We continue with the special speaker from the Democratic Partnership. Mr. Papatheodorou, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the final draft law tabled by the government for this year is being discussed in Parliament in the light of the political events which ultimately form political dialogue. To remember that we are not discussing a multi-brand plan today, but the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, the first political event is about the attack that the government is trying on the institutions of justice and the judicial officers, in a systematic and uncovered way, with the leaks of Maximos' circles about "we will see who will get tired first" or with the direct confrontation of the Minister of Justice with decisions of justice but also with judicial officers. In both cases we consider that there is - and will continue more in the future - this conflict of government - of justice. The targeting of an internal enemy, such as justice, is the basis of the account attempted by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL as a diversion, to disorientate the people from the problems of an unbearable everyday life that is constantly exacerbated by poorness, uncertainty and overtaxation brought about by the 2018 budget. But for these same reasons, we believe that justice, the parties to the opposition of the constitutional arch, but also the Greek people, must not fall into the trap set by the government today, as the longest-lived Memorandum Government has accumulated with its policy of heavy burdens on the backs of the Greek people and has willingly retreated to all the requirements of creditors and the defence line requires the creation of a narrative and the construction of an internal enemy. Thus, justice and institutions, all sorts of scandalology and the governments’ mouths of threatened revelations are at the heart of this account. The aim is to radicalize rhetoric and the extreme conflict with the inner enemy, justice or someone else, the opposition, the interests that the government finds at times. It is these conditions that require us to shield the prestige of justice, to protect with determination the parliamentary function of democracy and the rules of the rule of law, to safeguard legal guarantees, transparency, legal certainty, respect for human rights. The second feature of today's debate, on the occasion of the draft law, because for other things we will be talking about, is the body of amendments that settle many Memorandum obligations and now forms the framework of the so-called 'daily day after day'. Of the many lies that the Prime Minister said during the budget debate, the biggest thing is that we come out of the memoranda and try clean out on the markets in terms of credibility and growth for the Greek economy. The sad truth is that since the end of 2018 we have remained in a tough austerity regime with many billions already voted on, with cuts and extra taxes and with a suffocating commission, already granted by the Government. It is what the'monitoring' lenders say, as has been repeatedly formulated. As the Minister knows, the "monitoring" is like the surveillance by electronic bracelet and the limited movement of former detainees in space a few squares. This will be the country after 2018. This is what the government has achieved after three years of implementing the most inappropriate memorials, the austerity for the next few years. The bill now. The main part of the arrangements of the bill responds to the expansion of protection by means of measures to treat people who have committed criminal offences and are not recognised by them because of mental or mental disorder. The provisions of this chapter are in the right direction and improve the detention conditions for persons suffering from mental or mental disorder in order to harmonise national practice with international psychiatric developments and to emphasise treatment instead of detention. Therapeutic measures necessary for treatment, such as authorisations and costs, and means of increased psychiatric care and safety, such as protective isolation and physical restriction, are allowed, and measures such as sterilisation or lobotomy are prohibited. At the same time, the maximum duration of the therapeutic measures is regulated and the possibility of lifting or replacing the measure imposed by the treated person’s application is allowed. In any event, it is necessary to speed up the adoption of the presidential decrees to create specific structures for the treatment of mentally ill persons, as they are currently charged with three hospitals throughout the country. It also needs the immediate implementation of the new framework for upgrading or even strengthening infrastructure, because in the current circumstances you are all aware of and know that the draft law, when it is adopted, will simply not be implemented. For the consensual divorce, we insist that no measurable decongestion of the courts arises. The 2012 Act abolished the second discussion and simplified the procedure. Therefore, acceleration has already been achieved throughout the country. Only the Athens Court of First Instance, as I have said before, has a problem of delays. It is therefore unjustified to state in the explanatory statement that the political trial is expected to be accelerated. So they're not the consensual divorces the problem of political judges. The Minister told us that we are responding to the destabilisation of family law. It's inaccurate. We first have called for the structural reform of family law, a second reform similar to 1983 again when it was carried out by PASOK. We ask for a family court with specialised judges and family mediation. What Mr Kontonis brings is a fragmentary measure which has nothing to do with mediation or reform of family law. So let the half-measures come to the consultation of the draft law on compulsory attempted mediation in family, labour and civil disputes, as we have proposed. The government has refused to do so for three years, although such provisions would mean real reform in the field of family law. For the provisions on administrative procedure, we should tell you that under the laws of PASOK in 2010 and 2012 there were the main conditions...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u201	Mr. Papatheodorou, I'm sorry. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u202	And I said when you will, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, because the Chamber is small, wells gathered and you talk and you can hear and nobody can buy. I would ask you very much, if you will, to respect the speaker concerned and take care of him. If you don't want, you can out, very gladly, do it. I'm sorry, Mr. Papatheodorou, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr President. I told you that under the 2010 and 2012 PASOK Law there were the essential conditions for a significant improvement in the times of justice, especially in tax disputes, such as the establishment of tax departments in the large courts, the pilot trial, advising procedures, etc. So what should be promoted is in this direction the reforms. With regard to the amendments, because there are too many and it takes sufficient time to discuss them, I should like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that today's debate on the amendments, which I understand is annoying by the SYRIZA colleagues, reminds me of the intriguing difference between the reality and the thankful card that the Minister for the Interior sent today to the public workers. You won't have seen her. You know what he sent? He sent the work of Pelitsa da Vulpendo "Fourth Class". The Fourth Order was sent to the public workers by referring to the struggles. It's a little bit of time-consuming, because the "Fourth Class" refers to the Primary, that's where we're used to seeing this picture. It is a little paradox, when we talk about wishes with the "Fourth Class" card, to discuss amendments that cut rights, create specific crimes, form situations of further repression. It's nice, but that's SYRIZA's reality. The reality of SYRIZA is bipolar, and I'll explain why. So the first time had to come on the left to create on the order of the lenders - they had said so before you brought it - an inconvenience offence, a peculiar offence of blocking or disrupting electronic auctions, we could say, as if the existing provisions were not enough. These provisions were enough! The disruption of electronic auctions and their blockade should simply have been of particular criminal value, so that the auctions can begin, as the lenders had asked and the government had committed themselves. At the time that the Democratic Association submits a proposal for a law to save the main residence, SYRIZA responds with the criminal repression of his former comrades. That doesn't bother us. We believe that, Mr Minister, there is a need not to dismantle and block electronic auctions and to protect notaries involved in them. What's the problem? But the problem is the bipolarism I've told you before. The bipolarism is that it is difficult for SYRIZA colleagues to follow you in that logic, Minister, and it is from what we have heard, if you will understand, why others did until yesterday. They also find it difficult when they watched the news to have been: trabucian energy at the University of Macedonia, to have dissolved, vandalized the university's dean, to have been beaten students and sent to a hospital in Athens, to have the "Rubicon" in the DUs, the Ministries, the Parliament and the Government considered it perfectly normal. I was expecting a position on behalf of the Minister of Education, the Minister of Public Order. Minister, since the others have not done so, please do so, support the university community, which is the victim of tragedies right now. Because the dean of the University of Macedonia, when he did not find a response from the ministries and the police, said: "I will resort to the European Union of Universities, because my everyday life is inviolable". So when you have not made any announcement about these events, you come to criminalize the actions of your former comrades and those who are in the straight line from the "I'm not paying" movement to date and do what you did the other day. That's the reality. That's the bipolarism. If the measure brought by the Minister today is correct, he would not need the specific offence, which is both legal and political.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u205	There's no particular offense.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u206	There is no, Minister. So there would be no need for such a regulation. But I would remind you that, in previous regulation by Mr Paradigmopoulos, the acts which were the result of the social reaction and which did not create a great penal decency had to be left unpunished. That is what you voted on in 2016. So you understand that all this is completely contradictory. I, too, understand your difficulty in following developments in the legislative thought of the ministers, but also the specific major commitments made by the government, even on such small issues, which should have been resolved by the police, if justice had been solved, to have solved the Ministry of Public Order and the Ministry of Justice earlier. The problem is the administration of the condemnation of your violence, ladies and gentlemen. The problem is not auctions. If you were clear to some, you'd be clear and normal in your mind at age. I continue with the other amendments, which I think are of great interest. The amendment with a general number of 1380 and a special number of 118 - Article 46 - on the objective values of immovable property. Once upon a time, Mr. Tsipras in Thessaloniki said: "We directly adapt the objective values from at least 30% to 35%". These delusionals have passed. However, the bet of the equation of the objective values with commercial values remains a great demand. The Government, of course, is obliged by the decisions of the S.H.E. In 2014 and 2015, the Ministry of Finance adjusted with POL.1009/2016 the prices of the objectively determined value system for any cause of transferred properties located in areas within a project throughout the country, based on the provisions of Article 13 of Law 1249/1982. It was also noted that in the SYRIZA Memorandum - ANEL - L.4336/2015 - it was foreseen that by September 2016 the authorities would harmonise all objective real estate values with market prices with effect from January 2017. A year before all this. By that date all ownership interests would be cross-checked with data on all individual property in the Stock Exchange. Fifteen months after the establishment of the Committee on objective values and two and a half years after the resolution of the memorandum, the Government presents an amendment on such a crucial issue, a provision which provides for numerous spatial committees, but also a secondary committee with a huge number of sub-committees, with experts, who will reset the start-up prices per residential area and their coefficients of variation. You understand that this will probably be twice the previous one. And we believe that the measure is completely incomplete. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I ask for your tolerance for one more minute. Amendment 1386 provides for tax correction transactions and for late debits relating to general tax obligations and uses, periods or assumptions and 31-12-2013, instead of additional taxes under Article 1 of the 1997 Law. New cumulative penalties are included in Article 58: fines for inaccurate or non-reporting, fines for infringements of value added tax, etc. In this respect, the Commission observes that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and that it does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. Four questions arise here. I'll put it in an outline, and I'll end with it. The first question: it is extremely complex, as it takes place again in transitional provisions, which have already been amended several times. There is therefore a need for a number of examples in order to understand what these values are and how much these are being burdened with. Secondly, the explanatory statement expressly states that the amendments to the above provisions are dictated by the principle of the retroactive application of softer ratification in accordance with the General Authority of Union law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u207	Mr. Papatheodorou, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u208	I'm really finishing up in a minute. The principle of retroactive application of the softest penalty only applies to those who have not paid on the grounds that, following the removal from the fund, they are not wrongly recognised. For the others? Thirdly, the report of the General Accounting Office of the State states that the proposed provisions reduce the revenues of the State budget. How do you think to handle this? And, fourthly, is there currently in the TAXISnet the necessary tools in the tax administration, so that the most urgent one of the two sanctions can be prompted? Oh, no. What you are voting on is once again inappropriate and ineffective. Along with the other amendments we expect them to come - because before I go to Stepma, Minister, we have seen that the Ministry of Health is tabling another amendment - we would ask you - on behalf of all the Members - to conclude the debate today, even with this conspicuous programme of amendments, but not to think of the government putting down any amendments concerning the issues of asylum policy, which, as we know, has a suspicious content and is dictated by commitments that the Prime Minister may have made to foreign leaders. I'm stopping here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u210	Mr President, may I have the floor for fifteen seconds?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u211	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that a reference made by Mr Papatheodorou on his own was made at the edge of the speech. That's all I want to say. Because I don't like to do lessons, to God. But I hope it happened at the edge of the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, may I respond.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u214	Here you go, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u215	You have not been content with what I said previously that there is evidence of peculiarity. And I'll tell you who she is. In the objective situation of a crime - I, too, would not like, because it is an object that I am teaching it - when it is identified in relation to specific acts only, excluding this provision from the general provisions, this is the definition of the name. Is that right? From there on, however, I say that there is evidence of peculiarity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u216	There's no evidence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u217	I was therefore invoked to say that there is evidence of peculiarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u218	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u219	Minister, if we start, we'll never finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u220	Look, Mr Colleague, and I am addressing everyone. The peculiarity has to do with the heavier criminal treatment of an act, which leaves the'umbrella' of the general provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u221	That's exactly what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u222	So that's the name. There is no such thing as to get us to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u223	So we gave the same definition.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u224	No, you didn't give the same definition. You have spoken about the objective substance and that it is part of a process of the law. That's what you and I say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u225	Excluded from the general scheme.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u226	So I tell you what's going on. What's a peculiar name? There is no stricter criminal treatment, no existing act or predictable one. Mr Colleague, we should not charge the debate on concepts which do not correspond to this legislative phase. A conversation is being fired that you will see won't be good for those who trigger it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u227	What do you mean, Minister? It's not going to be good for what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u228	I'm glad you're saying "data" and "could" and...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u229	Minister, I think it's clear and it's good to put a perfect one. Can this debate be completed, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u230	I say it's over here. What you said could create impressions etc., let's stay on this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u231	That's what we said, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u232	You know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u233	Minister, it's clear. I think you should put an upper class too. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u234	Yes, but if this thing goes on, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u235	It won't go on. It's over here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u236	The government cannot hear such things and do not answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u237	I would like the floor for a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u238	Please very much, Mr. Papatheodorou. It's over here. The Minister will be forced to answer again. I think it's clear. Please, we're very much inclined to continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u239	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u240	Let me tell you, Mr. Papatheodorou, what's going on? At the moment, with the calculations we have made and because a roll-call vote has been requested, we do not finish without the roll-call vote being calculated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u241	We'll all be here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u242	If we continue with the other special speakers need to speak nineteen minutes, close to twenty minutes, as you have said, we will not end today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u243	Mr President, you must tell those who are organizing the debate. Why do you tell us?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u244	I say it to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u245	Give me the floor for thirty seconds and it'll end there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u246	And because there are ministers you want to come to explain their amendments, we are not going to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u247	Can I have thirty seconds? I'm not asking for the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u248	It is not the point of asking for the floor on staff. Mr. Papatheodorou, I think you responded to what the Minister said. It's good to end. I think it's clear from both sides. The speakers are twenty-two who have said to speak. The ministers have come too. As I said, after the special speakers have completed their speeches, we will be in the process of developing your amendments, Mr Ministers. Once again, I would like to beg, because you do not understand where you are on the bench, but whoever is on the Step understands how difficult it is to concentrate. The Chamber is small and the smallest whisper is a negative element in the gathering of the speaker. Mr. Aivatidis, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. The introduced bill is entitled: "Training measures for persons exempted from penalty due to mental or mental impairment". This draft law abolishes certain criminal clauses, including the abolition of the term of the irreparable criminal. I mean, the word criminal is gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u250	Mr. Aivatidis, excuse me for the interruption. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think I have been understood. I beg you. It's already the third time. Sounds annoying. If you want to have a conversation, please come by the Chamber. It's disrespectful to the speaker. Please very much. Continue, Mr. Aivatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u251	In addition to the term of irresponsible criminals, the term of extra-therapy is abolished, as is the term of the danger to public policy and security. I also stressed to the committees that these abolitions relate to the ideological approach of the ruling SYRIZA and I would say that they are a form of ideology and an ideological approach to this - very serious - issue. Since the meeting of the Committee on Institutions, both the Hellenic Psychiatric Society and the Association of Judges and Prosecutors have had their absence. Neither the President nor any legal deputy came. We believe that this is a form of protest for this draft law. That's how we take it. To use a psychiatric term, it is a form of passive aggression at the expense of the government, perhaps even at the expense of the person of the Minister, Mr. Kontonis, because he has been accused of interference and confrontation with justice. Therefore, this draft law concerns psychiatric patients with severe mental disorder who, at the time of the deed, are not fully aware of the desirability of the act. The approach to abolishing the word 'crime' from the words 'unreasonable criminal', in fact, betrays that the government is approaching this issue, not on the part of the victim, that is, it is not, as we believe it would be right - an anti-Central approach to this issue. On the contrary, he sees the execution of an act, a crime on the part of the perfector and removes the word 'criminal' because he was not aware of the act. But in these cases crime has been committed. There was a victim. So perhaps the Minister here could replace - if he insists on replacing, as the draft law provides - the term 'unreasonable criminal' with the words 'unreasonable perpetrator', because there is an act of criminality and with criminal effects, such as in homicide. These treatment measures recommended by the draft law are a placement to a special psychiatric department or to a mentally ill foreign hospital, who has committed a life-threatening crime or even to external medical services of a public psychiatric or general hospital. There is a risk not only of escape but also of relapse. We believe that this draft law is a very advanced one at this point. There are no special structures. I would like to tell you, Minister, that in advanced cultural and scientific countries, extra-therapy has not been abolished, as appropriate. In other words, there are people who are psychiatric patients with schizophrenia who have committed serial crimes and, indeed, severely - homicides, for example - that it is not possible exclusively to provide care and ensure public order and safety, the protection of the lives of the rest of the food, the nursing and medical staff. In this effort you're trying to demolition the mentally ill we can agree on. But because there is a criminal component in the Criminal Code here, we cannot agree. We're gonna disagree because we're afraid there's gonna be an issue in public order and security. On the other hand, we believe that, because of the insufficient structures necessary to implement this law, it becomes inappropriate. At this point I would like to refer to the anxiety expressed by an inviting body and that was the nurses of public psychiatric hospitals. Their representative spoke on security several times, with an anguish. The way it was expressed suggests that they want an extra-therapy for special cases. I would like to remind you that the psychiatric patient, who has been homicide, relapses regardless of the treatment to which he is being subjected, in an important way, I would say a small percentage - but important - for society, since it concerns one in ten thousand cases per year. It is our view that the public order and security of the ideological approaches to rightfulness and humanism should take precedence. If I recognise an incentive to the entire legislative effort, it is the discongestion of the Koridalus Psychiatrician, where I have actually carried out experts there, I have seen that there is a problem of congestion. I will come to the second part of the draft law and refer to Article 22 on consensus divorce. The lawyers' representative, at the call of bodies, literally swooped out the Government's argument on the imported article, which effectively abolished the procedure before courts for consensus divorces. Here is the risk of virtual marriages. We know that illegal immigrants with virtual marriages are attempting legalization. Another issue arises, as a notary will be involved. This final notarial act of consensual divorce how can it be offended if the two parties would consent to offend it? I will come to Article 28, which I would say is a courier for the legalisation of cannabis in our country. Making a retrogression with Law 4139/2013 and the New Democracy - PASOK - DIMAR, Minister of Health and Mr Rupakiotis, the cultivation of industrial cannabis in Greece was legalised. The then drug law and this article provided a limit of 0.2% on cannabis products. Of industrial cannabis also come from edible products. What's the important thing here? We believe, first of all, that this rise of 0.2% to 0.8% on the one hand is arbitrary...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u252	I'll be positioned right after.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Minister. On the one hand, it is arbitrary on the other hand, I cannot believe that it is a matter of an ongoing court case involving the suspension of criminal prosecution in this case, if any. It's a guess, a malicious man can make it. I don't believe that. I think it's a mistaken placement. Let me tell you that the highest percentage exists in Canada and is 0.3%. So over there, when some states in the United States tried to upload this percentage to edible industrial cannabis - by the way - I would say that it is possible to make sweets, cakes, cookies - there have been accidental poisonings in children. But what is the main issue here? It is that cannabinols that cannabinol has, a 10% is cannabidiol, which has no psychoactive effect, about 90% is D9 tetrahydrocannabinoic acid and the remaining percentage is the psychoactive substance, D9 tetrahydrocannabinol. What's going on? With the heat treatment of the edible product, the ‘friction’ is converted into a 30% to 70% of this acid, which has no psychoactive effect on the psychoactive substance. So we believe - and I say this without this being an ideological approach - that under no circumstances should this be accepted, the very high percentage. If you want to increase it, let's increase it to 0.3, as it is in Canada. With regard to Article 29, which concerns the representation of a political appeal for philosophical unions in cases of animal abuse, even straying, we are positive and propose that there should be a local competence of the pro-zootic union in relation to the criminal incident, the abuse of the animal. Therefore, Article 29 will be positive. Article 31, concerning the obligation to make an advance payment for the act concerning lawyers, where this omission is cured in the course, has positive elements. It is also a good thing that Article 56, which deals with the National School of Judges for ranking where an amendment is made to the oral and written examinations. While it was 50% and 50%, with the imported provision and the corresponding article, 15% will rank the oral examination and 85% the written one. We think it's right. For Article 40 concerning the abuse of minors and the impunity of psychiatrists, psychologists and social workers, i.e. that there will be no possibility of being indicted for the crimes that are not at all at all, we will disagree because it seems that it has a retroactive effect. It can be a matter of cases in progress involving failure of diagnosis, because that is what we can understand. In other words, there is an opinion expressed in a document which is wrong, it does not result in fraud, it is a diagnostic failure, and you want the irresponsible for this failure. If you go ahead, perhaps it would be advisable to include the coroners of the Ministry of Justice, but also those who serve in universities, the doctors of coronary medicine, I mean as well as the caretakers or the assistants who serve in hospitals. I will close with a small reference to the amendment on auctions. Here there is a paradoxical protectionism of the left government, which is essentially about banks and not, of course, about borrowers. In other words, there is another political attitude. Yes, but that seems to be the protection of the interests of the banks, without, of course, our approval of violent acts, which are known to us in various instances of former ideological associates of the rulers. At any rate, while we see that these actions are being carried out, the Minister's reference to hooligan behaviour on the part of the New Democracy was interesting. During the committees, I had raised the issue of extradition...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u254	Mr Aivatidis, please slowly finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u255	Mr President, these are two important things. I'll touch them and I'll finish. The first issue concerns the extradition of Russian national Alexander Vick, decided by the Marios Ice to be published in the United States. At the same time, the Russian Federation is asking for its extradition for a similar offence. The Russians claim that this decision of the Ice Arena is a political decision. We are not in line with this, but a major issue has been raised and it is at your discretion that Alexander Vinci should not be extradited to the United States. Let me say he's accused of laundering black money that touches the $4 billion and it's about bitcoin. Who will believe that if you make a extradition decision, that is not an order from the United States of America? Finally, we have learned in committee that the one who essentially organises or makes or has a decisive contribution to these legislation is the Secretary-General for Criminal Policy, Mr Phytrakis. We have reasonable suspicions that it is the head of mind behind the Act of Paradise and the subsequent extensions and extensions of the law by Mr. Kontonis. But there are elements - perhaps it did not act at all, I do not believe so, but it is not forgiven such negligence - which I shall be tabling on the Minutes. There is a document by Mr Phytrakis, the Secretary-General of the Anti-Criminal Policy, who has been deprived of the authorities, due to the delay in the conduct of an autopsy - morgue in Corfu, the possibility of arresting a thirty-year-old Albanian who murdered his friend's mother and went away with her minor daughter. I believe that he is indeed the head of these legislation, and I believe that, because of this intervention, even if he is negligently, he should have resigned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr. Aivatidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u257	Mr President, I would like to speak for a moment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u258	I would ask you to be brief, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u259	Ladies and gentlemen, a question of increasing this substance from 0.2% to 0.8% has been raised. In carrying out the Committee's work, there were substantiated scientific opinions on the 0.8% rate. However, after hearing the bodies, the growers told the committee that such a risk does not exist and that at most 0.3% of the protection to be dealt with in the law should be granted. I wait until noon. The government is guided by this figure to reduce 0.3%, as there is too many countries in the world. Because if there is no object in the country, I do not see why we have to intervene in such a high percentage. In this respect, the submission of the bodies before the committee was quite enlightening and we are heading in this direction. In order to keep this in mind, the next rapporteurs will also be present.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u260	Is that the place you're taking now or are you waiting for something?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u261	That's the place I'm taking now. I'm telling you what the orientation is. I imagine that by three we will have an absolute picture on this subject, so we will proceed to a legislative improvement in this article. I wanted to stress on the subject, because Mr Aivatidis said so in his speech, that pending criminal cases do not exist. We know absolutely nothing. It has been a process since February - if I remember correctly - which has resulted in this percentage. There is absolutely nothing dark in this case. Proof is that we place on the basis of what we have heard and have been sufficiently substantiated and justified.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I think it was really important to intervene. The reason is Mr. Delis' special speaker for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u263	Ladies and gentlemen, as it was reasonable to happen, the tone in today's sitting does not give it to the bill, since last night, a few hours before this draft law of the Ministry of Justice enters into a debate in plenary, the Minister of Justice suddenly brings an amendment - and what an amendment! - for the auctions in his own bill, please. It is a bill - I remind you - which has been being discussed in committee for a week. In the complaints we make about the relevant amendment which the government is trying to vote on, our Minister answers: 'It is not what you think it is, it is painless', so that a number of legal arguments are taken. Only - you know - the issue of auctions is not a legal issue. It is a social issue, and that is why it is a political one. To explain. There is no protection, no residence and no account for debts in public and insurance funds. And that's what we're talking about right now. That's why confiscations on this issue are going to be a cloud. And there is no housing protection since 2018, and that is what banks and funds know very well. That is why they are sharpening their nails and you are in every way helping them, as with this amendment. It seems that the sleeping pill of the notorious "mast-agreement" you advertised with the banks, it doesn't work and you grab the suppression bolt. Once again, then, that the SYRIZA government has been legislating in the last few days. The government's anti-grass repertoire has no end. There's no stopping. This time you are attempting to criminalize the fight against the auctioning of popular dwellings. The other day you tried exactly the same way to hit the most sacred right of workers, the right to strike. Today, the SYRIZA amendment, the Kontonis amendment - as it will be in history - considers the fight to protect the people's housing as a felony, which is automatically persecuted with prison sentences of at least three to six months. In other words, as a criminal who is struggling to protect the people's homes from the nails of unscrupulous predators, locals and foreigners. That's what you legislate. Rejoice and rejoice! But for a little while, didn't you take it? Who gives you this air? The IMF? Diaselblum? The institutions? The European Union? Or do Trump, all of them stacking honey for your government? Or is BSE and bankers who don't spoil them and have you in their faces? But you're making a mistake. The same mistake that others did before you. You underestimate the people and their strength. You're going to scare him, terrorize him so he won't resist your policy. But you are deeply at night if you think that with authoritarianism and repression, oppression and state violence you will end the struggle of the people for their homes and their lives. The opposite is going to happen. This struggle, this fight will strengthen even more, they will take away their illusions and come to him many more. Because fair fights don't stop and anyone who stops them, his alimony. His story has the stake of dishonesty ready. Your last masks are down. On the one hand, those who disturb the uninterrupted and orderly conduct of the auctions are persecuted by your law, because "the above legislation is dictated by reasons of greater financial and public interest aimed at supporting and protecting the national economy" as you write in the explanation of your amendment. It's disgraceful! And what doesn't all of this remind us of us! And who said it just before you three years ago, and who will say it all to those who are fighting the people and their needs! It turns out that for you too, the popular residence acquired with labor and sufferings of an entire lifetime, like all people's rights, does not belong to the national economy to protect themselves. Just as for you, as for those before you, for the barbaric system you serve in people's homes is the food of banks and the various predators and popular rights are oil and fuel in the machine of developing capital profits. For you people's homes are the best stifle in strengthening the liquidity of the financial system and you write this stubbornly in your law. Above all, the banks' liquidity! For her sake, you are liquidating, extracting life's labor and sweat, rights earned by the working class with blood sacrifices. You are also swinging at the bogeyman of a new bank recapitalisation, as if banks are euphemist institutions and not any tools of the capitalists, as if these recapitalisations were constantly being loaded by the labourers and retired people, and not by the hardship of the capitalist machine when it is in crisis. And so that's where SYRIZA raises the iron hand of law and order, leaves the carrot aside and catches the whip. That's the way it always happens. The more anti-popular your policy becomes, the more it will resort to authoritarianism and repression. It's like the nail with the meat, they go together. It is well learned by those who go to protest outside the Prime Ministerial Palace. The dismissals who made the crime protest and claim their right to work recently met in Yannina. They may have lived for the first time in the recent strike the other day and the students who dared to stand by their struggling parents in Trikala, Lamia, Gravia, Thessaloniki, Vereasa, Naoussa, Ilioon, Xanthi and Yannina, and then they received threats and fell off from the directors in the sad role of the pedophile. They even found the DIAS in front of them. Apparently, SYRIZA is entering for good on the road of state repression and authoritarianism. It is as if he wanted to send out a message that his anti-popular policy will not only continue, but will also be intensified by fire and iron. We know that very well. And the budget you voted yesterday also bears witness to it, which also acquiescences taxes on the people and cuts off from health and education at the time it cares and feeds the capital. This is evidenced by the increase in the domestic night current that you did last night while reducing it for large businesses. Another amendment to the same bill today, which comes to rapidly liberate the pharmacies of the self-employed, who were imprisoned in the bonds, to send them directly to the jaws of the big businessmen who want to collect and eat the whole pie of his retail drug. After all, all this requires capital, business groups, BSE, all those who serve with its policy and the current government, all those who are in a hurry to catch a good table in the big foodstuff of the growth that SYRIZA is making for them. But know well that the glove you throw into the people will raise it, along with the communists. One more thing. The convictions that will exist with the provision you are going to vote on today - and we say that there will certainly be what you are voting on - will also have the signature of all those who vote today 'yes' in the roll-call vote tabled by the JRC to this shameful amendment. Say a few words about the bill, starting with the core position of the JRC. The psychiatric patients to whom the bill deals under Article 69 and Article 70 of the Criminal Code are what the word for us, "patients", for whom the committing of a criminal act shows that they have an increased need for treatment. Their treatment is part of the special psychiatric hospitals and parts of specialists, psychiatric hospitals with appropriate infrastructure and equipment and fully staffed with appropriate staff. What I'm telling you now! Specialised sections that concern them first will be the treatment of patients rather than their detention and any necessary safeguarding them will be integrated, they will be part of the treatment and, after the successful completion of this treatment, those people who need restoration and social reintegration units with integrated education and work programmes will find them all. At the same time, it is also necessary to integrate them into non-native care and care structures which should operate in the single, public, but above all free health systems, with the abolition of all business activities. And they will of course need regular monitoring in the external medical services within the special psychiatric hospital, which will be considered free of charge and of course will have all medicines and all treatments free of charge. For us, for our party, the issue of prevention plays a central role, which must be manifested and applied at all levels. And there is no better instrument for the implementation of prevention by the Centre for Psychological Health as part of the Single Health Centre, which will be interconnected with the areas of responsibility at every local level: in schools, in apartments, in boarding schools, wherever people live and work, because we think that only with integrated prevention can the incidents of people with mental disorders that are left unintentional, without the necessary care, and under these conditions, are often led to criminal debauchery. For all of this, your bill does not make any mention, despite the fact that - and we recognize this in general - the perpetrator is treated as a psychiatric patient in need of treatment, despite the theoretical qualification of therapeutic measures. But the question is what infrastructure these will be implemented, with what equipment, with which personnel. The special and general sections of psychiatric or general hospitals that are squeezing from the deficiencies? Or will the healing measures in these people be awarded to so-called non-governmental organisations, which have almost entirely taken on the mental health units, while the state-owned state units are minimal and subordinated? Ultimately, what is well described in the bill we are discussing is undermining it and ultimately cancelling your policy, which is a policy of tension, cutbacks, underfunding health with the budget cut to falsify as a wax above all not to mention any increase in social spending. This cut - we remind you once again - you have legislated him and you are scaring him. In conclusion, I would like to make a comment, because we have seen a shift from the Minister to the limit of THC, tetrahydrocannabinol. We set the Minister, who until yesterday insisted on a limit of 0.8%, to present us with the EOF document which substantiated his view on this limit. As far as we understand it, that does not exist. That is why we will finally see how this article is to be formulated in the legislative process and we will see it again. In any case, our fear is not to open any doors, but to take the slightest step in the legalization of drugs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u264	Thank you, Mr. Delis, and actually in time. I would ask all Members, because another amendment has been tabled - eighteen is in total - to be as much as possible in your time as possible, so that we do not have to reduce the speaking time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u265	If you wish, Mr President, say what the amendment tabled is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u266	The last submitted is the number 1421, signed by Mr Tsakalotos and Mrs Papanatsiou, entitled 'Amendment of the provisions of the VAT Code'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u267	This amendment is urgent. It's for VAT on the islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u268	The ministers will have the time to develop them. Mr. Papachristopoulos, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Mr President. I want to refer to the bill. But I won't waste all the time. I think my fifteen minutes are too long. I would like to refer to some of the issues that have been raised and have nothing to do with the bill, but they have to do with the Ministry of Justice. First of all, I think a number of colleagues have said - and indeed from the opposition - that they have found many positive elements in this bill and I am pleased to hear it. I would like to mention in particular: I think it took us a long time to understand that some people cannot be prosecuted when they are mentally ill. The whole process is late, but I think we all welcome that. But I have had the opportunity - for a long time now - to speak about paragraph 6 of Article 2, which refers to someone who is curing, mentally ill and has no counsel. I don't stop it there. One man may not have half the euro in his pocket to eat and drink a coffee or be an economic migrant or a refugee. I would like here to mention an example that I have seen in the Netherlands. There is a special fund and a special code where a young lawyer does not take over at the last minute. I repeat that there is a special code and a special fund from the lawyers' own fund, but it is also supported by the state budget. These people can't be a second and third class. They must be treated equally with someone who has the ability to pay a lawyer. For the lost body, therefore, - because I believe 99% of lawyers are honest people and are doing their job properly - a glorious glorious field, to see what is happening in the countries of the European Union with people who do not have the opportunity to defend themselves. Extreme case, of course, is a mental patient. It's something we need to see, Minister. At least I will insist on my timely question. I'm on it. I was impressed by Article 18. I find it very positive that the institution of the prosecutor is being established, that is to say, someone who must ensure the individual rights and individual freedoms of these people. In my opinion, this gives rise to democracy and I want to highlight it. I see Article 19 very positively, which defines both the Citizens' Counselor and the Special Committee for the Protection of Human Rights with Psychiatric Disorders, the definition of another piece of democracy. I would also like to express my surprise at the way that Accurate Opposition is facing consensus divorce. I don't want to make any comment. Everyone is judged and heard by the citizens. We're all hitting on the decongestion of the courts. If that's possible! In fact, I heard arguments that it doesn't help. How doesn't it help? Look and find the pins, see how many cases there are every day. Go to a courthouse and see it. I think it was something that had to be done for years. I want to say, too, because some of them went through abundant drinks, and I want to say this. We used to say “the puppys with dogs and kittens. What do they want?" We have also criticised the South, the 'righteous' ones. At one time, a wise university professor told me, when I was young, and I had the same perception, and I was recognizing, that in the villages the animals are killing them, throwing them into the ashes, and not counting them at all unless they are used. And he told me a cat could cure a stroke. A dog and a cat can cure you from too many diseases. It took years to figure it out. I therefore welcome Article 29 very positively, which gives the opportunity to show political treatment to pro-zootic unions. No, it's not a luxury at all. There's a lot of lonely people, old people, sick people. She's in a positive direction and she's giving up democracy. Let's go to the Minutes. We all strike here in this Chamber and say 'three, four, five years'. I've told the committees too. There are four hundred thousand cases. Should nothing be done, should the Special Criminal Division 7 of the Athens Court be abolished in which all cases are stacked? Five-member Courts of Appeals, Mixed Oath, Three-member, Monomele, Adolescent Councils all stacked together. Article 32 really promotes decongestion and the shortest administration of justice and I believe in the fairest. I could say a lot, but I want to get to some other issues. I see this very positively. People who take over these cases, I mean someone who has committed a criminal offence and who is mentally ill, are psychiatrists, are psychologists, are social workers and often accountable to courtrooms because they had a point of view. So it comes with great respect to Article 40 and puts things in place. It cannot be a 'cold jump' that these people are sent to court, and I want to believe that we all agree on it. Also, I'm going to mention something no one commented on. We are, literally, all in the summer when we see that there is arson for various reasons. Here comes Article 41 -- and I'm glad to see and see it -- which excludes these cases of forest arson and says that the case-file can be submitted by the prosecutor immediately to the district attorney and quickly come to the audience. When we see an unbelievable forest burns, or what we've seen every summer is, I think, a timeless problem - it's natural to get angry. We must therefore all welcome this Article 41. It is true that we Independent Greeks are voting in favour both at the outset and on the articles of this entire bill. However - and I cannot resist the desire, I think I have a few minutes to deal with two issues because words and excesses are easy, reality is difficult. And I'm explaining. Over the last few days, we have been seeing some polls. I've always fought the polls and asked a timely question, and another question is being discussed tomorrow. There must be rules to end this story. It may be an image of the moment, but there may be rules. We saw polls falling out twenty and twenty-five units or seven, eight, and he goes out saying. Do they affect democracy, yes or no? I think so. They're influencing her rules. So we have seen three polls from MRB, today from ALCO, and above all from KAPA RESEARCH. Indeed, KAPA RESEARCH does not refer to a thousand or a thousand five hundred people, but it refers to 13 000 people, 13 regions and we see a new reality. This government, which has put its head on the dorva, is beginning to collect from the world, which is still poor, still suffering, no one said otherwise. But there is one hope. This causes a nervousness to some in this Chamber and you know that nervousness, according to the elementary rules of Psychiatry, leads to aggressive behavior. So I have heard high tones about two issues, which I would like to comment on. One is auctions. I want to make it quite clear: yesterday was a day of auctions. I challenge someone to tell me if I speeded up it was a bank, a public or an insurance fund. None of them were speedy in these auctions. Who were they accelerating, that is, who is causing the auctions? Privats! I've borrowed you $30,000, you've guaranteed me your house, you don't give me the money, and I take you to auction. If anyone thinks he can question it, let me know if it was half an auction in another category. As I know this from the outside and inconveniences, I will tell you this: there are three categories of auctions: one is when you came to the press, that is, what happened yesterday. You owe me, you don't give me, you guarantee me the house, and I'm auctioning it for you. The second is when there's a guarantor. I saw yesterday on many channels, which are now accepted by the world, 4% - who read the quality polls - and were beaten to auction the poor house of a woman who wasn't worthy of the house. This woman was a fourth guarantor of her husband's loan. You're ignoring this thing? Oh, no! Is it, however, an expedited bank, public or first home loan that you got and you can't pay it back? Oh, no! I challenge publicly someone to bring me an auction that's in this charge. One! No one's bringing me! The second case was one lady with two or three children, who had all the same children in the world. She had entered her husband's loan as well. That's what went into the change, at the end of the news. But for half an hour the auction sounded. The bad government, the bad banks, the bad public, the bad insurance funds. I'm leaving it in your judgment! Shall we do our self-criticism? Because auctions have been taking place for fifty years, they're not happening now. Sure, some people overreacted, but is it opposition tactics to make mistakes netting? Because this government went to second elections, and that's where he told the truth, without any exaggeration. These September elections, which have been held two years and three months ago, are invisible. Nobody's talking about them. There's no exaggeration there. And a piece of SYRIZA, forty with forty-five MPs in another view, came down and were tested. I respect them and I don't comment. What do I mean? I admit it, and I'm the first one I've said to do our self-criticism. There's been a lot of exaggeration. But the Prime Minister himself has often said that in the second elections something was imposed upon us and we went to them. Shoeble himself says so, the man who really wanted to carat us. He said he admitted this government that went to these elections. So these elections have become invisible. I do not want to say anything about auctioning but the word 'confidence' and I am disturbed. This isn't about an auction.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u270	That's it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u271	And we need to do something. I agree! And for the guarantors, we have to do something. And for the expedited individual, we have to do something. Come along and legislate for them, too. But don't falsify the truth and the reality. Auctions shall not relate to the first residence and first home loan. There's not one! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do I have two minutes, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u272	But briefly, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u273	Let's go to the second point, which I think is much more serious. I hear about the famous intervention of the government in judiciary. Yes, sir! A doctor - and I'm putting myself in - Papachristopoulos got a pack of 100 grand to do a difficult surgery and put them in a safe deposit box...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u274	You're exactly what you are!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u275	Up to EUR 15,000, I say, you guys, you can check me in the box, more than EUR 15,000, not!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u276	Ladies and gentlemen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u277	Is this an intervention in justice? If everyone else says "what are you talking about, Doctor?"...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u278	Mr. Papachristopoulos, that's not what we said!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u279	Second, I remember the SADs... Listen to me, don't interrupt me, we can have a dialogue as much as you want. Secondly, I remember the SADs in hospitals, where the doctor had done the thousands of millions - I, for example, had done the thousands of millions - and they judged him as colleagues. All the SADs went out exonerated. Where did it sound? Listen to me a little: Where did the audit sound to be also controlled? Where did it sound? That's what the judges are asking for. So is this an intervention to change? Thirdly, to consult on what we are saying - it introduces control over higher courts. It escapes you that if I'm a judge and I get a million or billion-dollar case and I take it for a long time in my office, can it be dropped? Where and where, then, will the sampling continue to be carried out at the highest judges? So the Ministry of Justice comes in and says 'no, everyone will be checked'. They're reacting to it. Is this an intervention? Is that a vendetta? And the worst: to cover these three, they also relieve me of the politician, the political leader, the MP. I went to the industrialist party and I am told 'if you pass this amendment' - I am talking about me, I am not talking about anyone else and I am not incriminating anyone - 'we will give you something'. Nor I, therefore, "before" nor the large-scale journalists "from where you were, whose names I find today on the list of CEDEFOP paid! Nothing! Check neither the relatives first of these people nor the state officials who handle incredible money, for example the Governor of PPC or OTE! Are these reasonable things? If this is an interference with justice, yes, Mr Minister, I want this intervention in justice and I want it quickly! If possible, now! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u280	It is incorrect to say what you are saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u281	Mr. Athanasios, don't challenge me. Leave me alone. Leave it, I don't want, I respect you, I appreciate you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u282	So am I.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u283	Listen to me: When the Prime Minister was coming back from the Lisbon Summit, it was written that he was going for a recreation trip to Louvre. McCron was still nothing, he was nominated then. It was the first move by the current Prime Minister with a man who is now playing a decisive role in the Eurozone and the European Union. Jeremy Corbin has made positive statements about this government, while we hear dangers, they call us useless and so on. Third, Schultz called him when he went to meet Mrs. Merkel. There's a good chance he's a Minister of Finance. He is the man who asks for 2025 to have the United States of Europe. Does anyone disagree? Reactions are from the elite, from anyone else. Mario Stenteno - some were mocking the Prime Minister when he went to Portugal - is the man who currently took the position of Dieselblum. What do I mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u284	Finish this, Mr. Papachristopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u285	I hear from morning to night dangers, incredible excesses, catastrophe at a time when the government fights to pull the cart out of the mud. You're in a nervous breakdown! More names have come today. It's not just offshore. Where? We heard about Aruba today, and we'll see. And some go out of their clothes and say 'we're not related'. I respect that. But on Mrs Bakoyannis' journey, this one was present.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u286	Mr. Papachristopoulos, if you'd like, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u287	I shall conclude, Mr President. What do I mean? It's not worth it - I'm telling you again - this hysterical blind opposition in a country that I think some are making a huge effort. They haven't solved the problem yet. And I want to believe that sooner or later you'll understand your mistake too. Some of you have already understood it. Not everyone knows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr. Papachristopoulos. I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy: 'Energy Communities and other provisions'. Mr Saridis has the floor for 15 minutes. Mr. Saridis, if you can, at least be in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u289	I will try, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what has the political system done in this country? What a fairy tale the Greek people have eaten! What a lie! What exaggerations! All of you! All those who have served the authority for the past thirty years in Greece! How beautiful words that so beautifully sound and how bad they have done and continue to do! How frustrated they've brought, how angry, how many suicides! That's enough of the truth. That's enough of the truth. Sound strong. To be heard by all together. Of all the wings together. To reach the most distant village in Greece, to hear it, to understand it. Word game. Words that lose their meaning. This is the experience of the Centro Association two years now in the Greek Parliament. I have said too many times from this Step on the tragic failure of the domestic political system, on the obvious impossibility of standing with dignity to the level required by the circumstances. Today, however, we are all in the unpleasant position to see this in a tangible way, to see the results of this failure. On the occasion of the amendment to the general number 1411 and number 130, signed by the Minister of Justice, which bears the very misleading title: 'Amendments to provisions in the Criminal Code', we are all today called on to see whether it is fair and proper to prosecute ourselves to the detriment of those who cause physical damage. That is what the amendment says. Who could object to what is stated in the amendment? Prosecution against those who cause physical damage sounds reasonable. It also seems right, moral and legal, to the contents of the phrase "prosecute those who cause physical damage". Below, however, he writes "and prosecute those who are threatening" and goes on to write "prosecution of those who are disturbing". And that's what they look like. And that's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u290	Ladies and gentlemen, we have relaxed a little while again. Please be very quiet, if you please. Mr. Saridis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u291	Ladies and gentlemen, the sound of these phrases, the sound of which are solid and unshakable, as are the size of the failure of the domestic political system. For a long time now, we have been shouting that words have lost their meaning. This could only have had some consequences. So the consequences of what are: Today we must convince the Members of the Com mittee of Inquiry to convince themselves, to convince the citizens, but also to convince us of the fact that the legality of the prosecution of those who cause physical harm and threaten it is right, it is fair, it is moral, it is honest. This is not easy at all, because those words, which you need at the moment, and you want to use them for what they really mean, are unfortunately not doing to you today and will not eventually convey the message you want to pass. Ladies and gentlemen, the words today do not answer, but they are asking why we need to legislate. Were there any loopholes in the law until today? Is it not already foreseen to prosecute those who cause physical damage? Aren't those threatening to prosecute? So what has led us here today at this point in which we are here? In order to respond to this, we should also answer another question that is persistently raised by the overwhelming majority of the Greek people: why are we not legislating to protect the first residence? What prevents us all from legislating together? This is wondered and no one comes out to give a responsible answer. The fact that Katseli law applies until 2018 comforts Greek citizens who experience this Armageddon in their daily lives. I personally have been going every day for months and put a question, sometimes a timely question, again and again. I was asking the Minister of Justice to tell me - and I thought he would go out publicly to tell me - how he went on, whether the first residence should be supported if he is responsible for this. He'll answer me if he had the right. He told me the Minister of Justice was unauthorized. Respond unresponsible for that. He said in the reply that we received from the Ministry of Finance "question the Ministry of Finance". But, well, Minister, when you were going and making agreements with the banks, when you go out and say that we agreed with the banks and made an oral agreement, the oral agreement itself ensures the Greek citizens? Mr. Kontonis said, therefore, that he was unreserved to answer. Do you not understand, Minister of Justice, that there is an inconvenience, an inconsistency in your statements? How, on the one hand, can you feel competent to negotiate with the banks and to close agreements that you ask the Greeks to trust and then, on the same subject, when we ask you here, in the Greek Parliament about whether we should make a law of the state of this agreement, state unauthorized? Does it seem reasonable to you to close oral agreements, responsible for reassuring citizens, but unreserved to legislate? They are words of air and citizens cannot trust those words. Ladies and gentlemen, citizens have seen and understood the value and importance of the political system in the written agreements, for example, in the Constitution and thus know what to expect of the oral agreements. That is precisely why we have arrived here today because you are not believed by the citizens, you are forced to threaten them. Today we are not talking about legislating to prosecute those who beat and threaten. Today you are asking us to have police officers solve your problem, the problem that has created the political system for years. Today, in a bill which presents as its basic argument the need to dismantle the courts and while the Greek society is still trying to understand who we made from prison with the law of Mr. Paraskevi, you are asking us to restore the peculiarities. The only reason you have to do this is because you have failed, ladies and gentlemen. Greeks have zero confidence in their political system. That's what happens when words lose their meaning. And if we consider the principle of today's bill, that is to say, the meaning of the provisions of its basic articles, then we can also speak of tragic irony. Today we have to talk about the price that words have lost their meaning in a bill trying to correct some injustices, the substance and the size of which is reflected in the contradiction and in the absurdity of the existing legal term 'unreasonable criminals'. Is that the phrase standing? It's a newly unprecedented term of Criminal Law that will cause problems. You either have the impunity or you're a criminal. ‘Unreasonable criminal’ does not exist. And yet, there is today in Greek law. That's what we call them, and that's how we treat them. In other words, the contradiction is not just formal. Inconsistencies are not just bureaucratic, but are also essential. When you charge crimes to someone who has the irresponsible and while his mental illness is assured, then you define the way in which the judiciary and the penitentiary, respectively, will treat him. Today, with the first three chapters of the bill and the provisions of Articles 1 to 20, we are trying to correct this situation, and indeed with the help of very serious scientists mentioned in the explanatory statement. Normally, then, if we were to legislate in a normal way, today we should only talk about these twenty-nine articles and their content, and we would have the opportunity to explain to the citizens the way we all understand how the concept of humanity should apply to the premises of the courts and of prisons. We do not, however, live in normal times. The years we're living are hard. So, instead of correcting what is happening in the courts and in prisons, we are dealing with what we fear will be done at the notary offices and we are looking at how to send more to the courts and to prisons. That's what we're looking at. That's the contradiction. No dialogue can make sense under these circumstances. The pharmacy issue is one of the most important examples. Pharmaceuticals warn everyone they're planning to open pharmacies that they'll lose their money. Ladies and gentlemen, something is wrong with the way we legislate. It cannot be seen only by the Centroon Association, you must understand that as well. You can't tell. It's obvious to everyone. And that can only have very serious consequences. Today, with Article 22, we are leveling the concept of marriage. What will be the difference in the eyes of the law between marriage and the cohabitation pact when Article 22 will come into force tomorrow? In my opinion, nothing. The only difference from now on will be God's blessing. In a country where the demographic problem is a real and substantial threat, we choose to show how progressive we are by making family breakdowns as easy as we can. We've done many other easy things. Generally this relaxation, this convenience that surrounds the pillars of the Greek nation, the family and the Church, does not help to preserve social cohesion, ladies and gentlemen. I ask you, what message do we send with Article 28? Nowhere else in the world has anyone been found to increase the limit of when cannabis components make it illegal. However, this will also be done here in Greece. It's just a matter, he says, of ministerial decision. With a joint ministerial decision by two Ministers, the Minister for Justice and the Minister for Rural Development, we will only be able to adapt the maximum permitted content of those substances that distinguish industrial from hemp and cannabis from illegal hemp. According to the laws, we live in a very progressive country. On paper this country is very forward, very modern. Unfortunately, however, distance from reality could not be greater. Evidence is silence. Who is concerned with the amendment, with a general number of 1386 and a specialist, 120, which provides for the replacement of the transitional provisions of Article 72 of the Code of Taxation? Why do you move on to these sudden changes for the Greek judges in Articles 33 and 36? How can you believe that without having consulted anyone, without having discussed with the judges themselves, will the changes that you are trying to impose on the judicial system will have a positive effect? Instead of commenting on the decisions as a citizen, and instead, Minister, to cause them to fight endurance, perhaps you should pursue dialogue with them. You cannot invoke the fact that you are a citizen, Minister, whenever and in what suits you, and at the same time present yourself as an expert, as a know-how, as a minister to convince you of what you are saying to the citizens, whenever it suits you. Ladies and gentlemen, the Central Association's effort to deal with every bill in an objective and calm manner is becoming more and more difficult every day, believe me. This is because we realize that you are acting like you do not feel any need to apologize, as if you do not have any share of responsibility, which your executives cannot decide whether to participate in the opposition to auctions or to vote in favour of violence. You have fortified behind the excuse that the previous people have done worse, to justify even violence, as if that is enough for the citizens to continue to tolerate these behaviours. You are inconsistent and inconsistent. The amendment to define the objective values proves this by far. With a last-minute amendment, without any chance at all to talk about it in the Greek Parliament, surpriseing everyone, you are making a decision that will surely create many problems in the future, and until then the delay caused by this decision will only do to everyone, to the owners and to the property market. "Furthermore" in the bill by the Centro Association on the so-called principle of the bill. History will judge you, others and us for what you have done, for what you have not done, for the lies you have said, but especially for the truths you have not said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u292	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. He was the only one who spoke less than his time. We are completing with Mr Dannelly from the river with the special speakers. I see three ministers here already. So I will give the floor to the ministers to explain their amendments, to Mr Skourletis, to Mrs Papanatsiou and to Mr Xanthos. Then we'll enter the chatter list. They will speak about two or three speakers. Mr Amyras has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u293	Mr President, before the speakers I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u294	Before the speakers? After the Ministers have developed their amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u295	After the end of their suggestions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u296	So now you'll get the floor before the ministers begin.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u297	Will you make your speech the normal one?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u298	A place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u299	Mr Amyras has also called for the floor as a parliamentary representative. So we will enter the process with two, three speakers on the list, some ministers and some parliamentary representatives will be involved, so that we can have the process smoothly. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u300	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer to some of the amendments. But, before I refer to the bill, I would like to make two comments. The first has to do with the methodology. Mr Minister, this method used by you in the past should not be continued by you. It is understandable that, at times, the printing industry must not go beyond the substance and reality and their needs. However, the abuse of this methodology that has been taking place lately - and today and yesterday we have it before us - I think it is wrong for you. It unfairs the issues that you are dealing with in this way, it is wrong for you and, of course, it is wrong for Parliament and for the way we legislate. This poor parliamentary practice of the past had no reason to adopt it. To tell you about the much-discussed amendment to protect notaries in the performance of their duties. Can you imagine that the contents of the conflicts that have been preceded or the ones that will follow would be the same if, in accordance with the normal legislative procedure, we had been listening to the parties directly concerned here? I guess it wouldn't be like that. So you are quite right to this methodology. And you could have avoided her. Because we did not find out yesterday and the day before yesterday, so that it actually has the urgency that had to be done today, since it is the last day of legislating time, to cover this real need. Well, it's a mistake. In relation to the substance of this amendment. I welcome it because it is not possible in a favoured mature democracy, which of course we want to belong to, and consider that we belong to public life, to have these phenomena of extreme violence. It's incomprehensible. As it is unthinkable to make setbacks. Because in the face of the demand to deal with the whole or nothing, you are fatally leading to nothing. So, without compensation, from this step yesterday, I said, speaking as a Parliamentary spokesman in the bill on the Hellenic Space Organisation, that we cannot tolerate the escalation of violence in the Greek universities any longer. Yesterday, what happened to PAMAK. And I mentioned what happened last week. I think that the conditions are now too immature for us to have a substantial change in the asylum law in higher education institutions, because we very clearly do not cover what the legislator supposedly predicted thirty, forty years ago, when there was a need, with what is happening today. I also referred to the modern Robins of the poor at Rouvikon, where their audacity has given the village's courage here is in its extreme form - we see it progressing ahead of us. From the public buildings we went to the supermarkets to render labour justice. So they think they can do and restore the state and its services. And of course, yesterday we saw them in the wilderness. They're starting to spread. For all this, as we are dealing with today - and quite rightly so - the phenomena of violence that some have set up careers or are trying to build second careers - in notaries and we have to deal with this, so we also have to deal with it in universities, especially in public life and elsewhere. And to say something to my colleagues in counterpopulation. I think that the right to evolution, to change, is unnegotiable, because it is a law, a law that does not allow for exceptions. It's a law of nature. The same applies to politics. Alas, if a political party does not evolve in its perceptions, in how to deal with issues, if it does not have a dynamic that follows the new reality we have to face. I therefore consider it both the right and the obligation of the ruling party to evolve, to develop its positions and the way in which it faces parts of our reality. And I think that it is not promotional for anyone, especially for the country and society, especially here, at this critical moment, the crossroads of our exit or our stay in all that characterize the life of this place, to fight in terms of the past. It's not promotional! So we have to come to an agreement so that we can see the reality as it is. And reconciliation with reality is an obligation for all of us and a condition - I say it again - to return a page. Now, on the bill, if the purpose of the sentence, as the famous Italian criminalist Chezare Bekaria writes, is not revenge, but the penalisation of what perpetrated the crime, in other words special prevention, that is to say to prevent the individual from committing himself again, then surely the penalty imposed on him is necessary to have a cleansing, laxative role, that is to say, rather than burdening himself with the element of vengeance, because then punishment ceases to be a punishment. We must not forget that punishment in ancient Greek means first aid, aid, assistance. And assistance remains in the sense of the penalty, since it contributes to the atrocity of the criminal. And I think that in this context of thought the main part of the planned bill on the treatment measures for people who are exempted from sentence due to mental or mental disorder is being moved. This is a draft law which is part of the liberalisation of our penitentiary system, amending the institutional framework for criminal treatment of wrongdoers, in particular Articles 38 to 41 and 69 and 70 of the Criminal Code. Since the quality of a democracy is determined by how to deal with and manage social minorities, and since this is a rightful bill, we, Potami, could not, at first, support it, despite any weaknesses it has had. The proposed package has as its main focus the lifting of the dilemma: security or freedom? Changes to specific articles in the Criminal Code, to which I have referred, are humanising the framework of sanctions, as they release resources and resources to develop alternatives to monitoring these people in the community, by limiting security for the benefit of treatment and psychosocial rehabilitation. In simple terms, a key role is the demolition of mentally ill patients. As far as our country is concerned, we should not hide behind our finger. Psychiatric patients are stigmatized regardless of intrusion or not. Psychiatric disease is a social stigma even nowadays, and it is often arbitrarily linked to invasion. The way that not only the penitentiary, but also our criminal system, treats mentally ill, can also work vice versa. They can change the way in which society perceives mental illness, but mostly they can help to reincorporate such people in society. The general, momentary and even anachronistic reports that are being abolished by this bill are the least we can do as a country in the year 2017, with almost seventy years late. That is where the necessary amendment to the legislation is made under Articles 69 and 70 of the Criminal Code, as it is a precondition for changing the fundamental point of view of the dangerous mentally ill person. A view that is often reinforced by mass media and that is why it is so dominant in society. The whole bet of this set of settings of the first part is the change of position for the mentally ill, from the dangerous perpetrator to the social fabric to the patient - the body of rights and obligations at social level. Elliot writes in "Four boxers": "The phrases last year belong to a previous language and the new phrases await the new voice." In our case, we are not talking about the previous year, but about the space from the far 1950 to today. Therefore, significant changes in the terminology used, with the selection of terms compatible with the findings of Psychiatric Science and the avoidance of language even stigmatisation, and the way of legal expression in relation to mental patients must give absolute priority to the protection of the personality and dignity of sufferers. That was something to do with it. Because, today, the provisions referring to the grim and primitive state of psychiatric hospitals, with all this anachronistic terminology on measures, sterilization, lobotomy, etc., do not apply. Therapy. It is not nowadays - I said this and in our debate in committee - that a prosecutor from the Ice Bay still order an investigation in order to determine whether legally and correctly a hundred and twenty-five psychiatric patients remain in public psychiatric hospitals for decades as unaccounted for. It does not mean not know about these people today if their health status has changed or if they can join society. To date, for individuals with infringemental behaviour exempted from their sentence due to mental or mental disorders, incarceration in a psychiatric hospital was a one-way path for judges. They remained incarcerated indefinitely, without access to the basic rights of detainees, such as appealing or obtaining permission, without even having the rights of patients. So, with this legislation, the Greek state is adapting to developments at international and European level, as reflected in fundamental human rights defence texts. The draft law clearly introduces the primary treatment against safekeeping. At the same time, procedural guarantees are provided for the individual and at the same time a rated system of psychiatric surveillance is established in closed and open mental health structures The outdated long-term incarceration in immunities is abolished and modern measures are adopted, with a view to the therapeutic effect, at the same time as the safety of the mental patients themselves, but also of course of third parties. Two critical remarks, however. Firstly, unfortunately, Greece in many cases changes the laws without changing the reality to which they refer. Secondly, the implementation of this new progressive framework for the former inappropriate demands a structural change in coordination and operation of both psychiatric units between them - both intra-surface and extra-surface - as well as in the effective cooperation of a judicial and psychiatric system. I imagine that the co-president, Mr Xanthos, Mr Kontonis, who is here, too - because they see him as such anxieties and sensitivities, prepares or prepares to a significant extent - because otherwise it is an empty letter what we are discussing - the public health system will provide the increased services to support what we are discussing today. Because if the practical application of the law is delayed, due to a lack of appropriate infrastructure in some cases or even the specialists, who are required to carry out the therapeutic measures, it will be a gift - for his vote will be free. For the full implementation of this special group of patients too, institutional and logistical infrastructure is essential. Of the other articles I will mention selectively in one or two, such as Article 22, on consensus divorce and seemingly simplifying it. We decided at the first meeting of the committee that there might be a risk of a non-automatic recognition by the other Member States of the European Union, since the terms of the Rules of Procedure, as we have in the Rules of Procedure, of the terms of 'cost' and 'judgment'. We should always be interested, when we legislate here, in the complete harmonisation and validity of any regulations we introduce and, of course, at a pan-European level. As far as I know, and in the countries - standards such as Germany, France, Great Britain and the United States, divorce of all kinds is concerned, the fact that it is appropriate in order to ensure the conditions and rights of the individual parties, as is the possibility of bringing an end to the solvency and seriousness which it deserves. Your statement that the procedure, similar to that which we are introducing, applies to countries such as Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Spain and Romania, I will tell you that it is true, of course, but I do not know whether it can reassure us about the possible question from other countries of these decisions. In addition, we have noticed that yes, divorce is coming out earlier in this process and that what simplifys things is obviously a positive reform and we should support it, but we should see again whether the cost is heavier for the citizens, given the demand of the two lawyers. In other words, when we talk about consensual, that requirement could not exist. Of course, that won't please the body of lawyers. But, in order to go ahead, as we have said, we need to get out of every sense of cohabitation and, of course, the public interest is above individual groups. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the main task of the draft law is to link the development of the science of mental health to the often infinite functioning of justice in a new scientifically documented, anthropocentric culture. The real challenge, but also the pretext for the proper treatment of the issue, lies in whether real psychiatric care is ensured for patients, who have committed unfair acts, in a way that respects the human - patient and, at the same time, protects society, by reducing relapse, that is, in an effective way. I think we will all agree that, if even with certain visible weaknesses in the first chapter, from which the whole draft law has been titled, it is trying to break down even a small part of this wall of indifference around the sensitive issue of the decommissioning of mentally ill people, we must support it. We will agree that there is a lot of work left to ensure that the new arrangements do not stay on paper. But it cannot be opposed to these regulations, which close a gap of seventy years. Obligation is for all of us to see things again with a different eye, because the challenge of overcoming deficits, resistance, inertia and social prejudices on such taboo issues, issues that cause unjustified fear in society and are often undermined by irresponsible media, remains more timely than ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. The cycle of special speakers has been completed. He has asked for the floor for a small placement. How much time do you want, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u302	I may have to expand, so you will be aware of it in my prototype in today's process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u303	Good. The Minister will start. His time will be determined accordingly and he may need to run out of the time of his first talk. Before the Minister begins, I would like to say that the request for a roll-call vote has been tabled by the Communist Party of Greece. I understand that the time margin is not on a point of order. I mean, whenever you want, you can file the document. I would simply ask that it be done as soon as possible so that the other groups can also plan in their turn. It's the last day, and some of the MPs want to leave. So, because it's the last day for the holidays, please bring the official document as soon as possible. Come on, Minister, you have the floor. I'll give you all the time you're entitled to. From that point on, if you stop, we'll keep the time for later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u304	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been quite rightly pointed out by some rapporteurs that today's debate in plenary is not dominated by what needs to be said about the current draft law, but by an amendment, which creates an addition to Article 334 of the Criminal Code. At the beginning of the sitting I was on this subject and I think I have clarified, in particular with regard to the misconception of certain colleagues, that paragraph 3, as is shown in the amendment, is a new completely new legislative intervention by the Government. I think that has been clarified. My colleagues, who also had a reservation on this amendment, felt they understood - but if they did not say so - that this was not a matter of legislation in full, because this paragraph existed in the Criminal Code. That is why I have asked the President to share with all my fellow Members the existing provision. It was an addition which protects notaries who no longer perform their duties in the process of enforcement, i.e. only in the auctioning area, but which can also be performed in private in this case. And it makes, as in the first case, this crime of its own motion persecuted. If we disagree with what I say, please on what I say, you will tell me your disagreement. I see, Mr. Gioka, you're moving your head.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u305	I'll talk. Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u306	Because more than what I just told you now and when I told you and this morning, the government is not doing. If you do not put the articles in the Criminal Code, what was in place and what we are voting on now, you will see, beyond doubt, that what I tell you is more valid and not more. After all, on what I am saying now, it was the position of your Parliamentary representative, Mr Pafile, and I think the necessary explanations were given. I want to say something, which needs to be heard. Ladies and gentlemen, for about ten months the government has decided that auctions will not only be carried out naturally in the pacifist courts, but will also be carried out electronically. I would like to say to you, as I said then, that this process of electronic auctions is an absolutely positive process, which the House should have legislated twenty years ago, when all the countries of the world, at least Europe, were for many reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, lawyers, we remember the situation in auctions. I tell you, at the beginning of this course, the auctions were held in the municipalities, in municipal stores. That's where anyone could show up and bid in that process. You remember, ladies and gentlemen, what tragic situations were taking place in the legal order, with even - even the presence of members of the underworld, who were terrorizing candidates not to take part in the auction and eventually to auction real estate for nothing. You remember those things. I think that the PASOK government has tried to correct this path by legislating the process in the courts with closed offers. It was an attempt to rule out the underworld people I told you about, and where we were all seeing. I mean, he had a good option, that effort. Sadly, however, she too was paralyzed. Why? Because with closed tenders, there was no possibility of a majority returning and, finally, where did the whole process end up? An immovable property is literally sold for a piece of bread. In other words, for example, I tell you that one property had a commercial value of EUR 50,000 and, finally, the auction ended up with the best offer, at EUR 5 000 or 15 000. So, first and foremost, it is our duty - and this is what the government has done with the law on electronic auctions - that this citizen, who is in a bad position, in a difficult position, to see a mobile or immovable property auction being auctioned, to protect him. Protection is not an auction, ladies and gentlemen. I tell everyone. Protection is the auction process to be transparent, to have control over this process and finally to end up as far as possible an auction. So the process of electronic auctioning ensures these things. It ensures both the control and transparency and the absolute participation of several operators in this easy way, which one does not even need moving in, to take part in the auction, so that the maximum possible auction can be achieved. If we agree on that, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think we need to say anything more than that electronic auctions have come to achieve what I have described and nothing else. All that is said is that electronic auctions are being conducted so that people cannot dismantle natural situations and do not create illegitimate situations, these, ladies and gentlemen, will be heard after a few years and will be laughing. Because we are not just legislating for now, we are legislating for a period of years and without the burden of such situations. And that is our responsibility to society and to the citizens. Secondly, we have talked here too many times about the protection of first homes. Again here, ladies and gentlemen, the facts and reality of the case, because I have listened to a great deal of talk from the rapporteur of the JRC. So, let me say to you - and I remind you again - that the government of the first bills, which were passed and made state law, was the protection of the first residence. Is that what's being called into question? Because it was heard from somewhere that there was no protection framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u307	There was that, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u308	Mr. Athanasios, you interrupt me and you're not doing well at all. But if you interrupt me, I'll tell you what was there. There was until 31-12-2014 the law and since then there was nothing. When we received, there was no protection framework, that's exactly why...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u309	Since 2010.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u310	It's not exactly like that. Mr Athanasios, I respect all my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u311	We're not up against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u312	Please don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u313	I didn't interrupt, I corrected you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u314	You know, therefore, that they had started on that infamous 20-day day, from 1 to 25 January, when the elections took place, first home auctions throughout Greece. And then we were right to say: 'No house in the hands of a banker!' We called it, and we were proud to call it, because we, first and foremost, protected the first residence from such situations. And we have legislation, ladies and gentlemen, on this matter. What did we say about Stathakis? That any citizen can no longer serve his home loan, which relates to first homes, has the possibility of addressing justice, can be judged that it cannot be excluded from all the adverse measures and developments in this process. Did that happen? Is there anyone who's questioning it? Nobody.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u315	Me, when I get up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u316	If you're questioning the law, what can I say? That was the situation and the time sequence. I'm telling you again that your law stopped on 31-12-2014 and you know it very well. You hadn't taken any more measures...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u317	The Katselis Act wasn't there?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u318	No, the Katseli Act, Mr. Comrade. I'm telling you about ad hoc protection of first residence. Don't you understand Greek? We incorporated the protection of the first residence in the law of Katseli with the modification of Stathakis. You don't understand that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u319	We've been exempting public debts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u320	Mr. Athanasios, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u321	You don't understand. It's okay. So we're telling you what the situation was, and I don't think no one...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u322	It's over now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u323	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It expires 31-12-2018, i.e. we have a whole year ahead of us. And the Prime Minister has repeatedly said that the government is considering and reviewing this matter, and when he sees that there is a problem, he will resolve it by law. The Prime Minister has said so, and I do not think I need to say anything more about it. So the government had legislated to protect our first home for housing loans, which were received by our fellow citizens, our fellow humans, who suddenly at the beginning of the crisis were found unable to serve them. I repeat: citizens' housing loans taken from the banks. That is why the slogan 'no house in the hands of a banker', I repeat, that we - say as many times as you like - accept it absolutely. Whoever wants to say it. 'Cause we're saying it now. The protection of the first residence, of the people's home, is first and foremost a question, and that is why we are completely protecting it. Ladies and gentlemen, did the government ever say, or did anyone propose, that private debts should be excluded from auctions?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u324	It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u325	It can't be done anyway, Mr. Lappa. You're right. Ladies and gentlemen, if a trader has a debt to his supplier, after a long judicial procedure, because this is taken out of the account, which now has an enforceable title, will we oblige him not to execute the decision and to destroy him financially? Is there any legal area on which such a decision is based? A worker, ladies and gentlemen, who has a claim on his employer, will not be auctioned to collect the accrued allowances? Not even him? Will this situation be protected too? Even if it's the employer's first home. Who's gonna protect him? These are examples where lawyers live every day. A wife, who claims her child's diet husband, will not come to the auction to collect the money that comes from the child's diet and life? Anything? Anyone? How nice! This will be the legal order in the country. Therefore, those who tell us that we are leaving open fields, to tell you that this area of private disputes does not need protection or cannot be protected. Let me tell you something. I said it at first, but some got over it. Are you not telling me, ladies and gentlemen: are you in mind, at this time when some of you come to the peace courts and pretend to be resentful and protesting, at that time at the peace court or at the notary's office, to auction any first home, people's homes from a bank borrower? Because we are telling you that we have set up an observer and are watching one by one of the auctions and there is no one. What auctions are there? Ladies and gentlemen, ten days ago, a real loan was auctioned - take care of the numbers - 1,450,000 Swiss francs, by electronic auction. And under the office of the notary there were protesting citizens who were asking for this electronic auction not to take place. Can we congratulate them? I ask you, ladies and gentlemen. It was auctioning real estate for which the borrower received a loan of 1,450,000 Swiss francs, first home - which does not fall under the protection of the law, because you know that the protection escalates up to 280,000 euros for a family with three children - and there were at the notary's office protesting to protect this poor man, who had built a nice villa, with a swimming pool in Kifisia and was supposed to be protected and asked not to continue the auctioning. Tell me: Does it have anything to do with the first home protection movement, the people's homes, what I'm telling you? So, tell me, are you protesting about this: was there any auction - not electronically - in the court of pacifism, which concerns first residence and popular residence and which you are serving in these expressions? I am waiting for you to tell me: "A auction was made for this borrower for a housing loan, then there, for the first residence, a popular home." No one, ladies and gentlemen, - and I say this, for the Greek people to hear this - has been a procedure before auction officers, for what we call first residence and popular residence. You do something else, which is worse than what I say. For some may be ignorant, and many of those who are, supposedly, indulging, may not know. What auctions do they carry out? I am not talking about those who do not know, the press groups, and in particular Mr Marinakis' group, who had every three and a few cases and were disguised, one by one, by the Ministry of Justice. It was not about the first residence and people's homes. Most were private debts. There's something else going on, which, I say, is worse. Just because there is no auction, some have been reported in seizures. You know, ladies and gentlemen, for those who are not legal - confiscation and more auctioning. In fact, they referred to seizures made by public officials, within the meaning of the law and in the context of their duties. Why am I going to ask you here: Tell me here in the House, which everyone is listening to us, is the Greek people listening to us: on behalf of the public and insurance funds some confiscation has arrived in an auction? Because we do not. If you have one, tell us. But trying to create a climate, saying there are confiscations about an issue that is about auctioning, then that's a smuggling. Indeed, it is appropriate to mislead some who do not understand the difference in confiscation and auctioning, while those who say it know it very well. Confiscation is the first step of forced execution, which results in auctioning and scores of other operations, from opposition, to corrections, etc. even compromises. And these acts may never lead to auctioning. Here, then, ladies and gentlemen, a mistake made at the outset could be corrected and some people admit that they had not properly appreciated it. To say it out boldly. It's not bad. Parliamentary dialogue is happening. I said earlier that I would make a correction. I am referring to the rapporteur on the JRC. He was right about what he said. I recognized it. Recognize, though, you too. I recognized it because we heard, cross-checked evidence, and we said it boldly. But you say you've got it, too. Say it. Don't say it the way I tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u326	We'll talk, Mr. Contonis. Don't get ahead of yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u327	Mr. Gioka, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u328	Okay, you'll talk. You have taken the whole of the provision as an amendment, and you have not seen that the only addition concerns the protection of contract documents, which now carry out electronic auctions in their office.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u329	Minister, because you have a second language too, if you want to help in terms of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u330	I'm done with this. These people, who were protected by the law on the peace process, should not be protected in the same way, without adding more or less or removing something, both by the same procedure and by the same provision in their office?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u331	You don't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u332	Mr. Gioka, I'm telling you we're doing this. And I told you that I was both at your disposal and in particular, to raise some questions to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u333	Not particularly, public.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u334	Don't open a dialogue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u335	I told you I could hear you, even out of order. What the government is legislating today is to extend the protection of notaries and, indeed, to make such protection self-professional. That's what we legislate. That is exactly the procedure in the peace courts, which has been in place since 1950.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u336	It's not like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u337	You tell me and I'll listen to you. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not say any more, because I have already abused. I said I would speak less, Mr President. But I once again wanted these things to be heard. In the end, I have asked you to remain critical of this provision. Unfortunately, other parties, apart from the JRC, have heard claims. It has been heard that it should be extended to both universities and elsewhere. It's an open dialogue. In particular, measures need to be taken on a number of issues. What I would like to say, however, is that you do not refer, particularly from the New Democracy, to the question of the amendments in this way. For I would remind you that on December 24, 2014 you introduced a law that included 68 articles. And you know how much it ended up? It has resulted in 128 articles and in a legalisation of a legislative act. There is a criticism from the other parties in the minor opposition, that you do not take, as an example, a bad practice, which has taken place in the past few years. I would ask you, however, to tell me which of the amendments that the government brings is not urgent and to discuss. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr. Minister. For the information of this House, I would like to say that the document from the JRC Parliamentary Group has been formally tabled for roll-call vote. So, respectively, let your parliamentary groups know. As I said, I will give the floor to the three Ministers to develop the amendments at the moment. We should also open the list of speakers, because you all wait patiently. After the three Ministers we'll open the list of speakers. Two speakers will speak and then two - three ministers, so that the procedure can be carried out smoothly. The list's out. The Minister has the floor. You have three minutes to develop your amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to two amendments. The first is a general figure of 1413 and a specialist of 132 and concerns the question of the funding of the parties. This amendment provides for the possibility of anonymous coupons up to EUR 15 in nominal value and total, as a source of funding, of 75 000 or 4% of state funding. As you will know, 2014 had banned anonymous coupons. We have reached agreement with GRECO, which operates within the Council of Europe and deals with the issues of black money and corruption. Our country was under surveillance, you know why. The political system had bad relations with black money. Today this surveillance is not the case. We are therefore adapting these regulations to the situation in the rest of Europe. Personally, I would say to you that I believe it is an obligation for a democratic culture to secure state funding, which is a democratic element. I do not believe in economic interest parties. The second amendment is the general number 1416 and specific number 135, which concerns Elefsina. The Municipality of Elefsina had a great challenge in front of responding to the very honorable choice made, to be Europe's cultural capital. You realise that means a number of very specific tasks. We therefore give the institution, which will deal with the issues of the organisation of the capital of culture, the possibility of derogating from the existing provisions of twenty contractors as a maximum number and having the possibility of subtracting. It is a great opportunity for the West Attica, not only for what will happen in this period, which will be the city's cultural capital, but for things to be done, which will constitute great interventions, which will change the landscape as a whole in this many-faced area. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr DIMITRIOS KAMMEINOS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Finally, I would like to make a comment, Mr Papatheodorou, because I saw this morning that you commented on the greeting card sent by the Ministry of Interior. First of all, I would expect a university broadening does not have such a narrow and formalistic approach to things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u340	It's an earlymagnetic card.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u341	This card isn't a nomadic card. It is a painting of Giuseppe Pelica, an Italian painter, who symbolizes the transition from the 19th to the 20th century, that is, the beginning of a new era. That is what I think is absolutely timely with the start of a new year. We believe that 2018, in fact, can be a starting point for new developments to lead to a better future for this long-standing place and its people. And next year, Mr. Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u342	And next year, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u343	Thank you very much the Minister. Mr. Petropoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u344	We are introducing an amendment on an outstanding provision of Law4387 on acquisition securities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u345	What are you suggesting? What's the number?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u346	It's a lot of...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u347	Oh, I don't have the number. We only have one from the Ministry. It's about the payment of insurance... [[Noise in the Chamber]] It is Amendment No 1403. With this amendment we regulate an employment area which has often been dependent on work, but which appeared to be a head of expenditure for the company, which has been working for these workers. In other cases, of course, it concerned real employment, which was not dependent on work. The limits were a little indiscreet. It relates to a provision on the acquisition or proof of expenditure in another sense, which regulated a circular of the Ministry of Finance and escaped social security, but also to the actual conditions of pay and work for those who actually provided a dependent job. It has happened in many cases: A company that provided staff with 8,000 euros said: "Take up 8,000 euros as a wage and 2,000 as a proof of expenditure every month". That's the kind of thing that happened. We cannot allow that. It happens in the worst cases. And the even more unfavourable for the workers, and indeed it has been put in a debate on the question, in which I answered: Ordinarily, employees appeared as if they were employed with the title of acquisition. We cannot allow this to happen, and this is why, with this regulation, the landscape of the obligations to pay insurance contributions is clear, of course, but it also works in interpretative terms as regards the employment of people with disabilities. I am sure that it will be settled in the implementation of the relevant provision and the working landscape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u348	Thank you very much, Minister. The State Secretary, Mrs Papanatsiou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u349	I would like to start with the two amendments, which we have not tabled in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u350	Haven't they been submitted to the committee?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u351	To the committee. They have been tabled here in plenary. The other two have been discussed in committee, but I shall refer to them. It concerns the amendment under general number 1410 and specific number 129. It's about suspending property tax. The proposed provision extends until 31 December 2018 the suspension of the application of the gains tax on the transfer of immovable property, with due cause, as laid down in Article 41 of the Code on Income Tax, for reasons of strengthening the real estate market in a critical period for the recovery of the Greek economy, with a view to adjusting the objective of real estate values. It was up to 31-12-2017 and we simply prolong it for a year. The second article of the same amendment relates to tobacco films. In the context of the overall effort to combat smuggling and tax evasion or tax evasion, our Government proceeded at the end of 2016 to assign the printing of the figurative tobacco tax films to the Bank of Greece, which is an internationally certified body. The Bank of Greece, from 1-1-2017 and exclusively from 1-2-2017, successfully printed the new tobacco tax films, which incorporate advanced technology and form another important step in the fight against smuggling. This provision regulates the redemption procedure of the Bank of Greece for the production of the official tobacco tax strips of the year 2017. The second amendment, under general number 1321, concerns the amendment of the provisions of the VAT Code. It is foreseen under the proposed provisions of paragraph 1 that the reduced VAT rates for the islands of Lero, Lesvos, Kos, Samos and Chios continue to apply until 30 June 2018, as they are islands of the eastern border of the country, which continue to be affected by the refugee crisis. The proposed provisions of paragraph 2 shall stipulate the application of a reduced rate of 13% to the provision of services by nursing houses, where they are not exempt from the provisions of Article 22(1) of the VAT Code. In other words, they are nursing homes, care facilities for the elderly, which operate as private businesses providing accommodation and accommodation for the elderly and the elderly. The proposed provision aims to strengthen people belonging to a sensitive group of people who need special treatment and should be treated with caution and sensitivity in the context of tax justice. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Mr President, I will need at least three more minutes, to refer to Articles 46, in terms of objective values. It's embedded in the bill. It is the amendment of Article 41 of Law 1249/82, which provides for the determination of the taxable value of immovable property. A way is to determine the objective property prices more non-discriminatory and objective, with a view to protecting the financial and social interests of the country. After thirty-five years, it is now necessary to revise the way local committees are set up, taking into account developments which have occurred in the intervening period in the question of the valuation of immovable property. There is a new way of setting up local committees, involving employees of the real estate services of the General Secretariat of the Public Property, the Independent Public Income Authority and the competent authorities of the municipalities. Representatives of the relevant market operators, i.e. notaries, representatives of the National Stock Office, representatives of banking institutions, as well as assessors, are hereby established, registered in the respective register of certified valuers of the Ministry of Finance, who will submit the initial recommendation to the Committees. In this way, the cooperation of representatives from public and private bodies is achieved. Under this arrangement, committees for the first time are given the opportunity to request the assistance of other experts from the urban, topography, building, etc. It also provides for the establishment of a high-level secondary three-member committee, consisting of a Parder of the Legal Council of State as President and the Heads of Service of the General Secretariat of Public Property and the Independent Public Revenue Authority as members. This recommendation is particularly important in order to avoid any distortions that may arise. Paragraph 3 provides for an exceptional procedure to determine the objective real estate prices, which will be applied only once after the law has been published. The reason for this urgent regulation is, on the one hand, the country's budgetary situation and, on the other hand, the severe doubts which have been raised over the recent period about the older prices of zones and which have the effect of creating an unstable landscape on the market and on its tax treatment. Thus, the task of drawing up the required contributions to the Minister of Finance is entrusted to the special assessors certified in the Register of Certified Estimates, in the field of the properties of the Ministry of Finance, who have a significant guarantee of knowledge, information, experience and impartiality and are bound by the relevant Code of Conduct of the Ministry of Finance. The assessors who will undertake the project will be selected following a public invitation by imprecise and transparent procedures. This procedure is expected to have immediate and valid results. I shall now refer to Article 49 of this draft law, which concerns the amendment of Article 72 of the Tax Code. As far as the proposed regulation is concerned, it is part of a wider reform in the field of administrative sanctions and aims solely at adapting our legislation to general principles of law, such as proportionality and good administration, but also in alignment with European Union law. The regulation concerns a retroactive application of the Tax Procedure - I stress - only in cases of additional taxes and in the light of the oldest legislation before 2017, which was too high. However, the regulation does not in any way affect the imposition of fines imposed on infringements of the Code of Books and Elements or of the Code of Tax Illustration and, of course, has nothing to do with customs infringements. Any debate on the issue of the fine, awarded to a tobacco company, is completely irrelevant to the regulation we propose and any connection to this case is against the evil. The simple and clear reason is that this fine concerns customs infringements and therefore is not in any way linked to tax fines and additional taxes of pre-law 1-1-2014. Colleagues have now reached the limits of the joke, while exercising their favorite disinformation service, they have not hesitated to diligently confuse the Code of Tax Procedures with the Customs Code, trying to set up an inexistent history, leaving a peak for discreet business and fine write-offs. The question, therefore, to the Vice-Presidents who made the complaint, is whether they read the regulation and did not understand or lie for propaganda and take news. But they know very well that there are two different things, tax control through a Code on Tax Procedure and customs controls.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u352	Madam Minister, I don't want to interrupt you. But if you have the kindness to finish, because we have reached eight and a half minutes and there are many colleagues to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u353	It is very important, Mr President, and I must mention it, because there has been a problem with particular colleagues and with the official announcement of the New Democracy. It is a pity, because these have been heard, even by fellow Members, who do not know the difference between the Tax Code and the Customs Code, which they themselves have implemented in their work. Ladies and gentlemen, you have no limits to the distortion of reality, unless what is happening is that the New Democracy and the PASOK themselves consider the perverse ones and that is why they find evil purposes which, of course, do not exist in our own government, as is demonstrated every time. But your goal is not the truth. Your goal is to create a climate and a blur, underestimating the intelligence of the citizens. The present Government aims to combat tax evasion. We have results and Opposition undermines this struggle, creates a climate and supports tax evasion. We will not be tolerated to shake the finger with false arguments those who smashed the money of the Greek people and the Greek public and then transferred their money to paradise islands. Every day, one is added. Colleagues, I will not bore you with technical details. However, I have to explain that, following several judgments by the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Greek courts and in the context of the application of the general principles of Union law, this regulation merely ensures the retroactive application of the softest sanctions, for the benefit of all citizens and any particular undertaking. The current government, by Act 4446, established the voluntary disclosure of incomes, which yielded EUR 711 million. On the expiry of this programme, the additional taxes on cases before 2014 return to the previous current situation, reaching up to 120 for the taxpayer. With the regulation that we have brought in, the more favourable provisions of the Code on Tax Procedure and of the old cases are implemented and this is how they become fairer, more realistic and, ultimately, more likely to be collected. The opposition is annoyed, which we have not only unreservedly closed the third evaluation, but at the same time we are striving for the over-performance of public finances to stimulate the socially weak. That's why she resorts to the only weapon she's left, the distortion and the make news, while we just voted for the last Memorandum budget, ending with the hefty legacy they left us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u354	Mr President, I would like to ask a brief question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u355	You want to leave at all 15: 00, so we need to help you with the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u356	If Mrs Papanatsiou remains, I will ask her during my speech. I don't have a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u357	You can tell it in your speech, because Mr. Contonis has a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u358	But that is not the case with the ministerial amendments, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u359	You have the floor, but please do not delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u360	Not at all. But this is not the case, it is not the case, it is the case that the ministerial amendments are presented and we cannot raise an issue. You understand that, and the ministers understand it. Madam Minister, the first question is why you are not tabling these amendments, some of which are very correct in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, which is now working. If you tell me why it should have expired on 31 December, it may have retroactive effect from the date on which it was deposited to the committee. I therefore ask why it does not go where people operating in the Committee on Economic Affairs can. The second and most important point is to answer two - three questions, in relation to what you have tabled. On the question of the harmonisation of the directive, why do we not harmonise the whole directive only with specific articles? I am talking about paragraph 3 of Amendment No 1410. This is how it is done in all the Member States, but it is a question of why the Government seeks the partial transposition of the directive here. Do you intend to incorporate it all? Secondly, have these been taken into account in the 2018 budget? I ask, because it appears from the report, these will be covered by other sources of revenue. From what sources of revenue will be covered once it has not been provided for in the budget? With regard to Amendment No 1380 and specific number 118, which you have presented, it concerns a very serious subject of objective values. You are recommending a primary school, after a secondary school and then, if the secondary school proposes it, a scientific committee with experts. Is modernism the new way to set up the committees? Why should one go to step three, be addressed to experts? I would remind you that in July you spoke of a coordination committee to make use of the Real Estate Bank database, to set up seventy-five committees throughout the territory, for pilot implementation. None of this worked. How do you guarantee, then, that these committees and this bloody way of setting up primary committees, secondary committees and then experts will work?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u361	First of all, for number 1410 it is recorded in the budget and there is no question. With regard to Rule 41 on the setting-up of committees, the committees will be as they were in the coordination process. The same will apply throughout the territory and the committees will be set up in the same way. They will be the special valuers, they will be representatives of the government, representatives of all actors involved and recommended to the Ministry of Finance the new values. If we have graduation problems between the members of the committee or from the previous one with the new value, then the secondary committee is involved. Not all the objective values will come to the secondary committee. In addition to that, for the expert opinion, because the secondary committee consists of a PWN staff member and the two representatives of the ADI and the Habitats, experts might have to put their views on this matter, and the experts may be consulted at secondary level, because there was this difference in the assessments of primary school. Only for this reason is it possible to ask experts to introduce the difference that exists in the primary committee. Why did we bring them now? Because time is pushing us. We had them testified, so they went into this bill. The Treasury bill will not be passed until 31 December. He's going to the next Commission on January 9th. From there on, to be voted goes much later. In particular, we need time for this amendment to complete the objective values by 31 March, where we must have completed them. On 31 March we must have completed the objective. That's why it's happening now. From there on, the EMA must begin to calculate and see what changes are to be made on this subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u362	Thank you very much. Mr. Contonis has the floor. Mr. Theocharopoulos will be following, because he has to leave, he has informed us for some time now. Here, Mr Contonis, you have the floor for the legislative improvements. Just a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u363	Mr President, it is no longer necessary. I'm making the two legislative improvements. I had already announced one thing about the figure from 0.8% to 0.3%. I am also making a new wording in the crucial article of the amendment that we are debating. It's editorial. I would like to say that because it was raised by several Members, in relation to the amendment of Rule 333 of the Criminal Code, the offence, namely the threat, the government is considering whether there will be a differentiation and I will reply to you at 18.30. But we are dealing with this because, in my opinion, it can be covered by the general provision of 334 for the smooth conduct of auctions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u364	Mr President, may I also speak about the legislative improvement?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u365	Yes, Minister, soon, if you please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u366	I am tabling a legislative improvement to the amendment to Article 72, which concerns the entry into force of the regulation from 1-1-2018, due to the mediation of holidays and the need to publish the proposed regulatory decision on the application of the provision. Its application is 1-1-2018.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u367	Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor. If you want, be brief, so we can make it, because we're late. Then Mr. Xanthos will speak and then another Minister will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u368	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be shorter than my time, I think.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u369	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u370	Ladies and gentlemen, the guest stars of today's debate in plenary, as I think Mr Contonis has suggested, today are the amendments, because we are just talking about law and, above all, of amendments. So, as today, on 21 December, it had happened three years ago, and I would have liked to have that body of amendments you said, Mr Kontonis: As today, exactly three years ago, on 21 December, the then government tabled amendments - very many in the number - had sixty articles - this was the one - and sixty others were the amendments, causing the strong protest of the SYRIZA Members. Mr Contonis, I do not want to surprise you, but tell me what you prefer: Do you prefer the sixty pages of amendments or the amendment of your own government, your own Ministry a month ago, a hundred seventeen pages, which was tabled on the day of the vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u371	Yeah, but it was one!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u372	Mia, but what's one, huh? One hundred and fourteen pages!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u373	That's the Left, Mr. Amyras! It's one and...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u374	Good. I, my dear Mr Kontonis, tell you that this and the other scenarios do not look for honor in the good way of legislating.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u375	Nobody says no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u376	So, of course, I give you the first body and I give you the hundreds of fourteen pages of a single amendment a month ago, which the Ministry of Shipping tabled on the day of the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u377	Yeah, but it wasn't the last day.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u378	He was tabled on the day of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u379	So what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u380	So what's "then"? A hundred-four-page amendment, with seven articles and a thousand-two issues in one day? Oh, no! So, I'd say you guys are even the other guys with today's. The point is to overcome this and go to other procedures so that Members too can have the time to express themselves freely, since they have studied matters well. Then he said something - and I would agree and agree with it - Mr Drasakis. I do not live in what was said three years ago by the then parliamentary representative and the SYRIZA rapporteur, who spoke of benevolence, fall, etc. What is my view of the amendments? Of course, when they are necessary and needed, they must take their place in Parliament, because it is a quick and flexible way of meeting pressing needs. But when this is done, we have a problem. I would, however, agree with what the then Vice-President of the Parliament and now Vice-President of the Government, Mrs Drasakis, said: it is not a opposition from parliamentarians and the Ministry, but a question of relations between legislative and executive authority. That's where the weed is. So on a point of order, unfortunately, the same and worse than what you have complained about. We are, however, in fact, going on to the essence of the amendments. So, as far as the auctions and the extension of the offense to the private premises of the notaries are concerned, should we accept a fact? In 2018 there will be forty thousand real estate auctions. I don't think anyone disputes that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u381	How do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u382	Don't you know that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u383	I'm talking about the number.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u384	I'm watching Mr. Friend, Mr. Manda. I didn't say that. Mr. Friends said so. So don't get ahead of yourself, don't rush. Why does Mr Philis ask for legislative intervention - an amendment on horizontal safeguarding and protection of first residence? Because, as he said, between these thousands of auctions there are, in addition to battling and strategic poor payers, the first residence of people's families. That is what you need to answer and listen to your answer. Otherwise, the slogan that Mr. Tsipras, when he was in the opposition, had proposed: "You, Seisma, we", is now transformed, mutated into: "We, the self-sufficient you", if what Mr. Friend says is true. Ladies and gentlemen, the second issue: Self-defence and protection - so to speak - of the way in which the auctions are conducted in the pacifist courts has been in force since 1950. Tell me, did this provision protect the peace courts, the notaries, the judges, the participants so that they could participate in the auction procedure? I don't see it much. I will be convinced of the efficiency and the sincere intentions of this provision and this effort you are making, if I see your old companion, Zoe Konstantopoulou or Panagiotis Lafazanis, the old colleague and Minister. Isn't it there in the first row? Laugh, I can see. So if you pass them self-sacrificingly, if, of course, people are violating the law, then I will be convinced of the goodwill and intention of this legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u385	You know, criminal persecution isn't done by the government. Prosecutors are doing them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u386	Of course, and the law should be applied.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u387	That's what we're doing. Why do you tell us that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u388	If the prosecutors do not apply the law, you should check them. You have the ability and responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u389	Do you want us to intervene in justice?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u390	I now come to the pharmacopoeia amendment. I would like you to tell me, Mr Kontonis, but also colleagues of the SYRIZA and the ANELs and their dear Mr Xanthi, if I am right, saying that, on the pretext of removing the obstacles to competitiveness and while in our country there is a large number of pharmacy, do you promote the complete liberalisation of the profession by calling into question their proprietary status, allowing drugs to be opened up by non-medicines and so every day, which is what you are going through, you are becoming more dangerous? Do you agree with this finding, Mr. Xanthi?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u391	You'll listen right after. Don't be in a hurry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u392	He's got it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u393	She's got it, of course, because she sees I'm reading it. I don't usually read. Mr. Tsipras said this in 2014 and was also an announcement extract of SYRIZA on March 7, 2014. Now explain to me, Mr Contonis, for the liberation of the profession of pharmacists. I agree. My own liberal idea says that there should be no obstacle, to any economically active citizen, to the profession which he must exercise, by rules, of course, respecting the ethics of the industry and the profession and which he must be free to develop economically. So that is what you were saying in 2014 for the release of pharmacy, which was then milder the provision, Mr Xanthi, than today, because it was not allowed to open pharmacies from non-medicines, and now your amendment is allowed. Isn't that right? I'll hear it, but I'm glad you agree. Because if you disagree now, it would be a mess, as usual, you wouldn't have left me in a green cry! So, in finding out, I mean, the facts - leave the interpretation - we are probably on the same ship and see the same result. I'm telling you all this because she needs self-criticism from you, first of all. You do one good, you do one and a half wrong. You do a good job and instead of proposing the substance of good - for example, the release, as I say, of the profession and the pharmaceutical industry - you show it or that it is the result of pressure or that you want it and you do not want it and that the work is not going well, because society is getting contradictory messages. Now I come to you, Mr Contonis, because this is your point of order. On December 13, a few days ago, the Minister of Civil Protection, Mr. Toskas, ordered the secondment of two police officers, Commander Komotinis, who took him out to Deputy Commander of a Komotini police station and the Head of the State Security Office, who seconded him and put him in there as Deputy Commander. Why? What had these two occupants done? I'll give you the answers. They had executed an order - there you enter, I want your comment, Minister of Justice you are - of the Protostitutes, in the context of their formal duties, on the question of using the term of the well-known theme - in in introductory terms I put the word - 'Turkish minority'. The Ministry of Education did not wish to take over the cost of the unrest, which caused it, so they preferred to sacrifice two officers in a degrading manner and punish them, because they were simply doing their job, following the prosecution order. And Security Commander Komotini, who was detained to a lieutenant of a police station about a year ago, had been attacked by a group of anti-semitists. Then the local police had protested about the passive attitude, as they said, to which the Ministry obliges them. So tell me, do you: Are these things reasonable and serious? Is it nice to see the "Rubic" perpetuating from here and there? Is it nice to see the universities become a centre, in fact, of trabourism and violence, under the pretext of asylum? What asylum are we talking about in 2017? The ideas leave like fire and are dispersed through the Internet, through modern technology media, and we, the asylum, have it, to protect the trumpets and cowards? No, asylum must exist in order to protect the student community, without 'Ruviks', anti-civil groups and anyone else. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what I am ending. Our rapporteur, Mr Dannelis, has given you the signal of how we will be placed in the bill and in the individual amendments, and I am pleased that Mr Condonis, in his bag, put the hundreds of fourteen pages of the amendment, the only one that had as compensation for the bad past which, unfortunately, you have succeeded and repeated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u394	Thank you very much Mr. Amyras. I would ask the Minister very briefly, Mrs Antonopoulou, who has promised that it will also be extremely brief, because her word is concise, too, to take the floor. Then Mr. Blonde follows. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u395	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are bringing before you the amendment of the Ministry of Labour as from 19 December 2017, with a general number of 1408 and a specialist of 128, to replace paragraph 1 of Article 73 of Law 4445/2016. Simply what do we do? There is an extension of the existing possibility for the Deposit and Loans Fund to finance RFS, with resources from its revenue and always in accordance with the fund's statutory purposes. Furthermore, this funding may be provided for the preparation of studies or for the provision of material for the projects carried out by the LAGs for the benefit of the public-private employment programmes. I stress that nothing changes in the way the social work programmes are financed, designed by our Ministry, are financed. But under the proposed arrangement, there is a way out for the OTAs, even for the poorest municipalities in our country, to be financed by the Deposit and Loan Fund for the purchase of materials that need, such as paints, pedestrian tiles, tools, to be carried out by the beneficiaries of public works programmes, which have a social measurable print. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u396	Thank you very much to the Minister. She kept her promise. Mr. Blonde has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u397	Have all the ministers spoken, or have we got others?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u398	Oh, no. We have Mr. Haritsi. We've got a lot of ministers. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u399	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before presenting the three amendments, which we have tabled, let me say a few words about the own bill, which I consider to be a very important, progressive step towards strengthening the rightful and humanitarian core and the judicial system, as well as the public health services system. It is a regulation, in which three excellent colleagues contributed, members of the country's psychiatric community, Mr Ploublidis, Mr Textiles and Mr Papadopoulos. It was in consultation and in close cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Health. There was very extensive consultation with the entire scientific community. It is a bill, in which they advocate and co-sign and support very important representatives of society and the scientific community and the country, such as the Hellenic Psychiatric Society, the Human Rights Association, the Citizens' Counselor, etc. It is also a bill, which is in line with the human rights charters, with international conventions, with the culture of respect for rights, especially mental patients. It has some very important changes. I think the most important thing is that so-called 'expected patients', that is to say, people who have committed a serious crime or even crime, but who are the result of their mental illness, are no longer treated in terms of preservation and incarceration, but in terms of treatment. That is what I consider to be a very important change of understanding. There are now specific treatment measures. There are therapeutic protocols. There is a personalised approach. This care is not only provided to asylum seekers, but can also be provided to psychiatric departments of general hospitals, even in structures outside hospitals, community care structures, obviously under constant surveillance and under special conditions, etc. So there are security valves. It takes two experts instead of one. There's a right to appeal. There is provision for legal permission for these people to leave the hospital, as well as for prisons. Obviously, what Mr Dannellis said is very right, that operational support from the public mental health system is required for this regulation. We're in this direction, obviously. There is a need for greater empowerment and, above all, better staffing of psychiatric departments throughout the country and special psychiatric hospitals, which are in a phase of transformation and overcoming civil service as part of psychiatric reform. This is the case with the bill. We now have three amendments. The first is the general number 1417 and special 136, which provides for the possibility of being paid on-calls, carried out by the medical staff serving in the EMCDDA and doing 24-hour shifts to the EMCDDA, from August onwards. With the new organization of the Ministry and with one provision in Law 4486, the EMCDDA is recommended as an autonomous agency of the Ministry of Health under the Minister. And in this way, we are stopping the interconnection between CEDEFOP and EMCDDA, where CEDEFOP was called upon to pay on-calls, held at the EMCDDA. And, in my opinion, there was a umbilical cord of transaction and opaque management of these funds, even for on-calls. So there's a lullaby, let's say, intervention in this landscape too. The EMCDDA needs to. It's very important. It's the Ministry's Health Operations Center. It has a very important operational role. It needs to work on a 24-hour basis and it needs, people involved in on-call mode, to be paid normally. And that's how it's legislated. The second amendment is the general number 1420 and specific 138, which relates essentially to the increase in the cost of hospital treatment for either the hospitals of the RIS or the private hospitals, through the pharmacy of the EEA. You remember some time ago in a bill that we had at the time for doctors' working hours, there was a regulation which we withdrew and restored now, in consultation with the associations of the phytosanitary industry. In essence, 30m euros are added to the budget, which was planned and which proved to be too inadequate. We are at a time when pharmaceutical expenditure has a growing trend, mainly because we have facilitated the access of uninsured citizens to public health and electronic prescriptions, but also because of the needs arising from the decent and complete medical care of refugees and immigrants in the country. It is therefore an intervention that has been agreed. There was a distortion, especially in hospital medicinal products administered via the EPOY pharmacies, where basically the amount of clawback we asked was higher than the amount paid to suppliers, was at 110%. So I think that this is an effective way of dealing with it, too. The third amendment is the general number 1412, and with a special number 131, which concerns what some of you have referred to, the pharmacopoeia status. So because there has been a debate since yesterday on this issue, I want to be very clear and very clear. This is not a new arrangement. Those who are elementally following things know that this has emerged as a derivative obligation of Law 3918/2011 that began the story of the liberalisation of professions. That's been through several stages. There have been changes with regard to distances, hours, one, the other and we have reached the Memorandum of Understanding, Law No.4336/2015, which provides that a joint ministerial decision will be adopted to regulate pharmacies' ownership issues. We made this ministerial decision in October 2015. And, in our view, we have made a very serious and documented intervention, which has not allowed two years now that this provision is in operation, to have what you described earlier, namely a climate of market consolidation from great interests, oligopolistic - let us say - restructuring of the pharmaceutical sector, etc. It is very characteristic that in these two years that the provision was in operation, there have been thirty-two requests from non-medicine individuals to take a pharmacy leave and six adopted. We had made the Ministerial Decision that the applications of pharmacists precede and that the requests of individuals follow. We had set very specific clauses, for example that an EIA should be set up, to which the pharmacist with 20% must be a shareholder, and that he must have a limited number of authorisations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u400	Is that true?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u401	Allow me, because it is a bit delicate and I want to make it clear. Leave me a moment and I'll make it very clear to you. We had therefore set clauses which, in our view, did not allow for what was then a theoretical risk. Thirty-two applications, therefore, in these two years, six were approved, two were withdrawn and four have been tabled and have not yet been examined.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u402	What kind of applications are these?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u403	Requests from non-medicine private individuals to obtain a licence. That is to say, at the moment in the country, after two years of operation of this arrangement - but it has come down to the Council of State in the summer and that is why we are now coming to reform - that is, the two years of liberalisation, but on specific terms, there are, in fact, four pharmacies in the country where their owner is a non-alcoholic, total of eleven thousand pharmacy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u404	The applications were from companies?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u405	No, no. Rheta, Mr. Voridis, the possibility of claiming an anonymous company was ruled out...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u406	I'm not saying anonymous, I'm saying ED.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u407	Beware we had put natural persons or pharmacists or private and legal persons, only cooperatives of pharmacists, members of the OSCE, the Federation of Pharmaceutical Cooperatives. I think that this is precisely why we have prevented the risk of instability, to say the least, of liberation. Now, the Panhellenic Pharmaceutical Association is appealing and is legitimate on its part. I am not now going to the essence of the matter, namely whether this type of liberalisation actually promotes market competition and contributes to growth, etc. I think this is an idea and an obsession mainly with the IMF and OECD toolbox 1, etc. Panhellenic is appealing, so this Ministerial Decision comes up with the implementation of Law4336 which we have taken and falls down. Be careful, the reasoning of the Council of State is that we could not regulate these things with a common ministerial decision. And now we are called - and that is what we are doing with regulation - and we are giving the authority to initiate the process of adopting a Presidential Decree, which, of course, we have agreed with the institutions that it will include these basic principles that describe them here, namely, a principle, the possibility of granting authorisation under preconditions and to non-medical medicines. Be careful, though, because this is very critical. It goes without saying that 'until the adoption of a Presidential Decree, authorizations are currently granted only to pharmacists'. In fact, in order to understand it, the process of supposed liberalisation has been frozen. At this time and until the issue of a presidential decree, a pharmacy will only be authorized to pharmacists, the completely opposite of what you claim is happening. It's only given to pharmacists...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u408	Why? Aren't we going to issue a presidential decree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u409	Watch out. We'll see what the S.T.A. will decide, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u410	As to the presidential decree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u411	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u412	If you ask us to authorize you to draw up a presidential decree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u413	Look out! The Presidential Decree will be passed by the preventive control of the Council of State. The President of the Republic cannot sign if he does not pass.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u414	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u415	All right, so we will have the view of the Council of State on the substance of the regulation...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u416	I don't understand the New Democracy's point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u417	We'll hear it later. Now listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u418	Please. The Minister must finish because we're late. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u419	So let me say this. What is actually happening at the moment is that, by this arrangement, no non-medicine can be obtained, until a presidential decree is issued, a pharmacy licence. That's the truth. We'll see how the thing goes and how it turns out. Here we are to deal with it. I, too, understand the anxiety of the pharmacists who have also been hit by the crisis, because the pharmaceutical market has been dramatically shrinking and possibly right, because we have had a bubble over the past decade and everyone knows it. I understand the anxiety. I understand a scepticism and a reservation as to whether or not these types of measures to facilitate competition and the market, etc. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he is prepared to make a statement on this matter. But what we have to say on the other hand is that with the clauses we have set ourselves, this risk does not actually exist. We heard the same conversation when history of unprescribed medicines was legislated. You know very well that that is where we put a framework essentially with an opinion from the IFO. We said 87% of MUSIC can't be sold out of the pharmacy. These medications were left in the pharmacy. Of course, there is the problem that their price has been released since this year, because this is what the Memorandum provided for. In any case, the risk of non-prescribing medicinal products being taken to the supermarkets has not in practice been realised. We anticipated a special category, the so-called GENSA, that is to say the General Disposal of Medicines, which, because we have also set very specific conditions for their packaging, for the capsule content, etc., has not been interested in the industry developing this field. In fact, nothing has changed. MUSYLAS remain in pharmacies. Let me say that we have made some very important interventions that have strengthened the functioning, so also the viability of the pharmacy that we recognise is performing an important point of contact and of seeking citizens in the general sense of health services. That is why in the primary care bill we said that the pharmacy is a point embedded in the network of primary care services. Firstly, we made this first MUSIC arrangement. Secondly, we are negotiating and I believe that we will close this - it is still pending - a regulation within the framework of the liberated working hours which had been created in previous years and which has led to too many distortions and, above all, to the refusal of some small pharmacy to enter the system of nights and days because large pharmacy hours have eaten the largest part of the pie and work of the wider region. Immediately after the holidays, we'll bring in the polygraph of evaluation. We've got some arrangements. The only thing we haven't managed there is to put a ceiling on the operating hours. In other words, we say that the hours of operation of the pharmacy are the same as those of the other commercial shops. We think it is perfectly logical. He disagrees with the IMF. We will reexamine this with more documentation. So we have the MUSYFAs. We have an intervention in the working hours. The most important thing is that we have strengthened the pharmacy's turnover with the medical expense of uninsured citizens, especially the poor who have so far received these medicines from the hospitals. This has increased the turnover of pharmacy. We have widened the possibility through the contracts made by the EEAS for medical devices and sanitary materials from 1-1-2017, and this has also strengthened the operation of pharmacy. I believe that, as a whole, with all these interventions, the government has really protected, in a very neoliberal context, in which everyone can have his opinion and his agreement or disagreement, sufficiently the social role of the pharmacy and pharmacist and public health. That is our view. I really don't think this is a surprise. No one's surprised. Pharmaceuticals are completely aware of this handling, as well as the Panhellenic Pharmaceutical Association. I understand the need for trade union criticism, but this is in no way a surprise. It is in knowledge - I am not saying an agreement, but it is in knowledge - the trade union organs of pharmacists. We have no new arrangements, no surprises or acrobatics, as I read in some kind of criticism. Nor was the issue, of course, resolved by the decision of the St.E., as misleadingly, in our view, the Panhellenic Pharmaceutical Association states. The S.T.E. It has set us before us the need for a new regulation, and that is exactly what we are doing, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u420	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Bored.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u421	I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u422	Also, I urge the Justice Minister to accept an amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u423	Just a minute, please, quiet down! Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u424	Wait a minute to fill in one last thing I missed. This is a parliamentary amendment exempting the Eugenetic Foundation - for which you know 98% are shares of the University of Athens - from the payment of clawback. I think that this ensures its sustainability and its development, in conjunction with other university hospitals. It is a parliamentary amendment which we too support and I urge the Minister for Justice to accept.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u425	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u426	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u427	Here, Mr. Kamaterre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u428	As far as Parliament's amendments are concerned, it is important to know the opinion of the relevant ministers before they leave. Unless they authorize Mr. Contonis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u429	You'll talk. Thank you very much. The second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Bored.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u430	Thank you, Mr President. We said we would have a roll-call vote, but we did not clarify what date. On 21 December we will have the roll-call vote, it is today, unless it is the biggest night of the year tonight we need to take advantage of it. Isn't that right? In addition, I take the floor for a parliamentary amendment, which I do not know if you will include it in the flooding of the amendments, because it concerns floods, nor will you call it Christmas, Mr Voridis...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u431	We'll vote for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u432	...but also to call it Christmas, the world hasn't broken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u433	You brought her late. Now you remember her?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u434	Please very much. I do not think the mood of those concerned will be affected. I am referring, therefore, to the last rapid, unexpected, unusual weather phenomena that hit certain parts of Iato-Atarnania and as a result of these unusual weather events, we have had some terriblely unpleasant consequences. I think that anyone who has found these consequences will agree, because some people have seen their livelihood swallowed by mud, that these regions should be included in the scheme of regions such as Mandra, Samothraki, regions affected by similar phenomena.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u435	We're with the Agrinio!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u436	There are not only households, Mr Voridis, but also businesses which, as you all know, have been bogged by the recession and now come like a cherry on a sloppy and stiff cake, the naturalities. I say, therefore, that we should do this and not adopt a view expressed here by a colleague of the New Democracy, Mr Kontogeorgios, who, during his speech on the budget, used all the cosmic surnames for SYRIZA who were opportune, on a course to justify Euklidis Tsakalotos for the ten wounds of Pharaoh, in the end he said: 'It is not enough for all the other, it is also black cats to SYRIZA and brought the floods'! [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't make parasites, Mr. Carraguni. Especially you have no reason to do this today. I'm saying this. As the political thought has taken a long turn, we must not give it international dimensions, because there is the following danger. Do you know what kind of danger there is? For example, to adopt this view by Mr Donald Trump and say that for misery and flooding it is not the fault of climate change, but it is the fault of a fat black cat from North Korea, say. Understand? So I say we don't take it that far.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u437	The first half, that for climate change, he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u438	In order to speak a little more seriously, a newly-advanced at the New Democracy conference said that 'if it does not become self-criticism, all the rest end up being propaganda'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u439	Ramfho.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u440	Did he say that? At the New Democracy conference. He heard who? I have great doubts from the dialogue that is taking place here in Parliament that someone has heard it. Ladies and gentlemen, I take this opportunity, because I do not often take the floor, to say that we on the government side receive it as a fierce one. What's that? I don't know which poet of communication or which cat with petals, since we referred to the liked quadruped, thought that "you in SYRIZA do what you do because you are interested in power and chair". What does that poet mean? That we, the others, who move the finger, voted for memorials, and a memorial that is not ours, and voted for them to serve our European ideal and ideology, which are identical to the memoranda. That's what he wants to say, right? I think that if he really wants to say that, we are not on a reasonable footing. In conclusion, in order not to take away time from the parliamentary representatives, I would like to say that during the melancholy melancholy our democracy has become melancholy affected by the comitology and all the fellow sinners. That's true. In this context, however, I would say that there are no two Greeks, one painted with joyful colors and the other with the worst, darkest colors. There is a Greece, which through this painful process has been sliding into bankruptcy, allowed it to be found in the animal position and used as such, but which is now trying, picking up its pieces, standing on its feet, getting out of this tunnel at all costs. It's necessary. This must be done and it will be done. It is also a matter of restoring national sovereignty and national dignity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u441	Mr President, may I speak about an amendment that we are accepting?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u442	Ms. Papanaceu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u443	I and Mr Kontonis will be able to accept the general amendment of 1404 and a special 125, with the addition, after the words 'and the Regional Unit of Ioannina', of the words 'and of the Preveza Region'. I want the Preveza Region to be included.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u444	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Haritsis, Deputy Minister for Economy and Development, has the floor. Minister, thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u445	Thank you, Mr President. I am presenting the amendment with a general number of 1418 and a specialist of 137. The proposed amendment consists of five articles concerning the management of financial instruments, the solution of technical issues in relation to the Public Investment Programme and, in particular, the introduction of new tools to strengthen local government bodies. In particular, the first article enables regions to allocate resources, other than those managed through the Regional Operational Programmes of the NSRP, to financial instruments that we manage centrally, through the managing authority of the ESRPEC, the Competitiveness, Entrepreneurship and Innovation Programme of the NSRP, such as the instrument of Entrepreneurship Fund to support small and medium-sized enterprises. This makes it better to manage and coordinate the actions concerned at central level. Already, with this possibility in TPIX, the Fund for Entrepreneurship, which supports small and medium-sized enterprises, is supported by an additional hundred and twenty-eight resources from almost all regions. It is very critical that regions should be involved in such financial instruments. The second and third article of this amendment enables the LGBs and their legal persons to be financed by the European Investment Bank and the Deposit and Loan Funds with loans which are repaid by the Public Investment Programme. Therefore, the Public Investment Program is coming to assist the Local Government and, above all, the municipalities, in carrying out the necessary water, sewerage, rehabilitation and flood protection projects. It is therefore a very important new programme, which enables municipalities to implement these important projects without, I repeat, having to repay these loans themselves. It takes up the cost of this Public Investment Programme in their place. Accordingly, also the fourth article, which complements the two previous ones, establishes a specific aid programme for the municipalities, also financed by the Public Investment Programme, for projects which are not eligible either by the NSRF or by the programme of the two previous Articles. With all these programmes under Articles 2, 3 and 4, we are practically supporting the municipalities of the country with new financial instruments, which are in addition to the existing ones, in order to cover projects which cannot be carried out in another way, mainly local infrastructure projects which should have been implemented for many years. It is time, with the specific financial instruments, to implement these projects. Finally, with the last article of the amendment, the fifth article introduces the possibility of reallocating funds between national and co-financed parts of the Public Investment Programme, of course always within the overall, voted by Parliament, an annual limit of the Public Investment Programme so that, if necessary, exceptional conditions such as those we have recently lived in Mandra in Western Attica can be tackled. We will therefore be able to strengthen the municipalities that suffer the consequences of natural disasters through the additional support from the National Public Investment Programme, if and when necessary. Mr President, I am tabling a legal improvement in this amendment. It's just a word recast in paragraph 2. After the word "development" is added a party and the word "internal", since there is a cohesiveness with the Ministry of Interior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u446	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Athanasios has the floor. Mr Theocharopoulos will then speak and then Mr Kamaeros will make his introduction to his parliamentary amendment, because the Minister is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u447	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the New Democracy have shown that draft laws aimed at the proper functioning of institutions and services in general, we support them. So in this bill I must say first of all what provisions are right and we support them. In summary: The amendment of Article 440 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for the appointment of the lawyer when there is no, especially in the felony, is correct. It is right to extend the peace table until the end of 2018. It is right to reduce the trial of judges and prosecutors. It's ten months now. Indeed, there are many problems in justice and their education must be completed more quickly, more intensively. Please note, however, that if you do this for two months it is short the time and good to go to five or six months. Of course, it is also the provision you bring for the irresponsible. Article 34 of the Criminal Code speaks of spiritual functions. The perpetrator is not charged with the act, if there is a disruption of his conscience or his ability to understand the wrongdoing of the act. It's right. But all Article 34 must be re-printed with mental and mental disorder. Why am I saying that? Because all of this is interlinked with the provisions of the Criminal Code and with regard to security measures. We have said so in the Committee on the Penitentiary Code, which are similar to issues. Especially the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, we handed him in. It had started before the committee which revised provisions - to comply with the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, namely that there should be no contradictions between the Code of Criminal and the Penitentiary. We delivered them in January 2015 to Mr. Paradigopoulos. Since then, I haven't seen anything coming. All that comes is fragmentary provisions which resolve various issues, but they prove that there is no comprehensive plan to address the state's anti-crime policy. Of course, it is also right to have competence for labour disputes. It is a request which has been put before us nowadays. It was right. There's been an improvement. However, this regulation is now more correct and we say that it must be supported, provided there is an authorisation and there is no need for proxy. The criminal divisions - which are being abolished - do well to exist and exist in all the countries of the European Union. Mr. Karagkounis developed it very well. Of course, there are malfunctions especially at the Appeals Court of Athens and at the Court of Appeal of Thessaloniki, not at the other courts. Because there are trials, especially in Athens, of a long duration such as those against terrorists, against criminal organisations and in any case of great social interest, and the criminal procedure cannot go ahead, because there are too many judges and civil cases in prison. It would be a good thing - Mr Karagunis said so - rather than abolishing them, to increase the number of posts. And I do not understand why you have increased the positions of public prosecutors only - I do not know what kind of provision this is in view of the latest developments - and there is no increase in the judiciary that we are suffering from. You always have to know that since our codes have been, since 1952, there has been a ratio of judicial and public prosecutors. That's the one you're overthrowing. I see no increase in judicial officers with the last three legislations. That's where it takes, so the cases can be over faster. And I stress that thankfully Mr Papaioannou also made the unilateral appeals in some cases and were able to dismantle the bottles a little. So you could bring that back. Let me say a little now about our disagreements on auctions. Of course our rapporteur, Mr Karagakounis, and Mr Vorides, has done so very well. But if there are no illusions, because this has not been understood, I have to say a few things before I enter the criminal part. Let's say about the urban place. In the previous versions of the Katseli Act, Law 3869/2010, there was an exception to the liquidityisation of assets. In other words, the first residence was excluded as an amount, which was a tax-free limit on the acquisition of first residence. We, regardless of the law of Katseli - notice this - protected the first residence until 2014. It is correct what Mr Contonis said. Indeed, extensions were given since 2010 and were protected. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need a few more minutes to deal with all the issues. In 2014, we told the FYROM - I would remind you that the FYROM is the Governmental Board for the Management of Private Debt - that we would discuss with the Troika, which required these issues to be settled. We were grading towards one as we said then, the Irish successful system. What was the Irish system? That a ceiling would have been introduced to ban auctioning at first home, the Code of Conduct of Banks would have been laid down, namely, under which conditions an auction would be possible and, of course, would have been the cooperating borrower. It didn't have time to do it. Changed. Changed. And what do you guys do now? Watch what you're doing at SYRIZA. Mr. Kontonis isn't here to hear and counteract it, I interrupted it twice, maybe he hasn't been informed about the history. On SYRIZA the protection of the first residence was changed twice to the worst and was arranged until the end of 2018. Now beware of what restrictions they have put. But cumulatively, they put them in, not divorcingly. First condition: the objective value must be up to EUR 180,000. Secondly, the monthly income does not exceed reasonable living costs. It's totally vague, because it's subjective. Who will judge this and how will this be judged? And third condition, of course, remained the cooperating borrower. In fact, I would remind you, Mr Kontonis, and refer to the Minutes of the House, when Mr Stathakis brought this arrangement, what he said: 'Unfortunately, we only achieved 60% of what was before and what we were asking for'. In this law we have proposed that the debts to the public should be excluded from the auctioning of first homes, and that is why they exist, at the moment. These are the differences, in order to restore the truth, to understand who protected the first residence and who do not protect it today, despite these rhetoric. We are now entering criminal matters. Indeed, Mr Karagkounis and Mr Vorides have developed them, but I have two questions. The first is why you protect notaries only for auctions. So if someone in his office is doing another public job, does he want to make a will or a contract and go and attack the heirs concerned who have heard it, will he not be protected there? Why do you disqualify imprisonment and do it automatically? I can't understand it. That is why what Mr Vorides said to you, that your aim is for the auctions to proceed to meet, and that is not to protect not least the notaries. We will see what will happen next, what provision you give with consensus divorces again. Article 333 is a classic case. All the criminal laws of the European countries are inviting them to do so. Why do they have to be here, especially when the notary is threatened, to be self-proclaimed? I cannot understand that and see the contradiction with Article 334, the violation of asylum. I would like to thank the Commissioner for his answer. Watch out for this, it will lead to legalization. Consensual divorces are an issue which I consider to be very serious, which has not been understood. Divorces are a court decision, they are public policy, and there must be a court decision, so says our Constitution. In the European countries which we regularly invoke, if we see comparative law, it will be noted that this system of other institutions, particularly notaries, does not exist in France, Germany, Spain, England and Italy. It's a public order, and it's forbidden by our Constitution. You will create many problems with this. Much more when we have children, because, as you know, it was not understood that the consensus divorce had to solve two things: the custody of children's communication and, of course, the acquisitions. How will they now be solved much longer, when one of the spouses is foreign, and perhaps we have a time-limited right - now I have no time to develop it - is normally the last home, but it may not be. And secondly, apart from being foreign, there is the possibility of having a different residence. They are huge themes which will be created and I cannot understand why this provision. We don't have anything with the notaries. I do not even appreciate and understand that this sector is also affected by economic difficulties today, but that is not a solution to this issue. For the VAT of the islands and the bill you brought, Minister, you must know that the constitutional legislator has regulated the clause of islandity for the simple reason that he has seen that our border islands, particularly those close to neighbour Turkey, must be financially stimulated to support the population that must exist there and not leave for national and economic reasons. Of course, business production and operating costs are increased, especially transport costs. Troika in 2013 and 2014 - especially in 2014 - has been calling for the abolition of reduced VAT and, of course, we refused it. Don't tell me it's a Memorandum commitment. It's today. Our lenders in the memorandum, which has nothing to do with the loan contract - we have told this in the House - wanted to reduce expenditure. How to reduce expenditure is a matter for the government, for each government in the country, it is not a matter of their own. We have accepted taxation and VAT reductions, which you have not accepted, and you have abolished. Of course, I can't give up responsibility. You cannot now abolish this, because it is a Memorandum commitment and the counterparty, the lenders, must also agree. However, the suspension could take place for several reasons, as was the case in 2018. I wonder where you say in the rapporteur's report that this is because it lasts for immigration. So, can you guarantee us, Minister, that in June 2018 we will stop immigration and have decongestion on the islands? I don't understand? What's that logic? Secondly, why have poorer islands been excluded? For example, Lesvos is excluded in 2018. Lemnos why not? Ae Stratis, who has a hundred and fifty inhabitants, and we're trying to keep the world there, the Fournes, Ikaria? I'm telling you, I'm telling you. These are not serious things and I think that there is a problem without it. So the regulation should concern the prefectures, as we said before, and of course it should not be linked to immigration, but because of the constitutional requirement that I have told you. Finally, because things have been said about the judges' "understood" to stop this story. The judges, ladies and gentlemen, from the day when they will be appointed until they are retired and three years later are obliged - and that is what they are doing - to state 'from any point of view'. To date this was until 2016. What's the problem they don't want to say? What did the decision of the Court of Justice say? Two, three topics: The Greek people must learn and listen officially at some point and not be misinformed, such as the Prime Minister yesterday in the budget and the ministers too. They need to know a few things. First, the statements were made at the Prosecutor's Office of the Ice Arrow. The institutions have come and said that there must be a neutral institution for the statements by the judiciary officials of the Prime Minister, the Ministers, the State Secretarys, the MPs, the prefectures and the regional authorities. Indeed, in 2014 I was Minister of Justice and we brought this law, which was in force until recently. What was that law? Three MPs, two Vice-Presidents of our Parliament, one of the Government and one of the Opposition, and the Chairman of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, two supreme judges, the Prosecutor of Appeal for the Legalisation of Crime and one of the Bank of Greece, a Vice-President, a neutral body. My law was n.4281/2014. A law comes in 2016 and what are they doing? They're taking the judges - look out, only the judges! - by this arrangement that they had to set up and take to another Authority, which is the so-called Third Statement Control Unit, together with everyone else. And now the judges, who are administrative...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u448	Let me remind you that you were in a hurry because the plane is leaving.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u449	I can't make it anymore. Thank you very much, Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u450	Let's talk, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u451	I'm done. If we go in proportion, the three minutes of the Ministers became twenty-two. For the islands to say this, now that I have heard you, Mr President: I have quite rightly seen that you are against me, if that is not the case, that you have tabled a timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u452	No, timely, but a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u453	Simple?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u454	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u455	Anyway. Mr President, Mr Demetris Kammenos has tabled a question which - beware - identifies the problems that will arise, Madam Minister, in the DUs by means of reduced VAT on these islands and on all the counties. You'll see what huge problems you'll have and what a dead end you'll have. Regarding 'outside', the Deputy Minister of Justice comes in 2016 and takes them and takes the judges there. This law was declared unconstitutional by the Council of State. And he's only a judge and prosecutor. All the others are administrative officials who are normally appointed by the Government. In other words, the person controlled cannot be a judge of those who control it. That's the reality. And we can't figure out why.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u456	Mr. Athanasios, please. We have to go. You're talking ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u457	The Ministerial Decision on Timilling is no invention of judges. This is provided for in the Community directive on the protection of personal data. That is forbidden by the Community directive. Let this be understood and not come here to say what they want for the valuables. In application of these provisions, therefore, they said that all these arrangements are unconstitutional - take note - not only of the judges, but also of everyone. And it is not right for them to be heard by government lips that it has only been done for judiciary officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u458	Thank you. Mr. Theocharopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u459	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary sitting on the occasion of a bill from the Ministry of Justice. And I say on the occasion, because this bill is accompanied by a tsunami of ministerial amendments. We have dozens of amendments from various ministries to settle various cases. Some amendments are urgent because time is running out. Others, I can't understand why we don't talk about them the way they should. So there is the government to close loose ends before the time runs out. That's her tactic. Of course, even if there were no amendments, we could discuss the substance of the provisions of the bill, but not an overall and integrated approach to the proper functioning of justice. Because this bill once again includes a series of fragmentary arrangements, which are not linked to each other. What good functioning of justice can we talk about when faced with a bra - de - conduct between executive and judicial authority? The supreme confrontation of a government and judge only succeeds is to undermine the authority of institutions and the confidence of citizens in justice. Many times, Mr President-in-Office, you are standing in the face of judicial decisions, and you must protect justice, even from political matters, especially the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice. Of course, I do not think we should adopt a setting that wants judges to be above any criticism. But political purposes, from wherever they come, must break their faces in front of the wall called the rule of law. But is it possible for the country's Prime Minister himself to declare resentment constantly with the decisions of justice? Is it possible for the Prime Minister of the country to declare indignation when he sees, as he says, phenomena where judges attempt or want to draw anti-constitutional laws? But on the basis of the Constitution, don't the judges decide? Let him say specifically now and with what he disagrees. I would remind you that in the decision on television licences, it was urged to say that there was no reason for justice to decide the issue of licences. In other words, he is constantly trying to prevent and not accept criticism. He chooses the frontal and barren confrontation. And Mr. Tsipras distributes in his previous speech about the 2018 budget that it is not the government that will be the first to impose, it is assumed, the commitment that everyone will be equal to the law, of course, in the dispute with the judges about their "subjects". The previous speaker referred to this conflict beforehand. Mr Tsipras himself, though, as we speak of trade unions, was it not that he was committed a while ago to maintaining the judges' special wages at his meeting with the Presidents of the Supreme Courts? Does Mr. Tsipras understand his role? Discrimination of powers and the independence of justice is a cornerstone of democratic states. On the other hand, we should not consider that any criticism of the work of justice undermines the separation of powers. Well-preferential criticism does not dismantle democracies. Instead, it's their component, it's a clue, it's their oxygen. Because, basically, it is not the democracies that allow them criticism, but it is the critical thought and attitude that builds democracys. If, for example, the government is really interested in dealing with corruption, let us take legislative initiatives here. Let's bring us draft laws and let's not go to mudfighting and coconutfighting. The exclusive priority in the communication management of substantive political issues leads the country to a deeper decline. Justice is a supreme institution of democracy, the foundation of a modern, effective, social and credible state. We must therefore prevent it, prevent any attempt to undermine its independence and, above all, to keep it away from political purposes. In this climate, then, in relation to justice, we are discussing a bill which, despite its many positive provisions, is fragmentary once again, far away from an overall and integrated approach, while at the same time accumulating a number of issues, regardless of each other. The regulations of Part One on the treatment measures for persons who are exempted from the penalty due to mental or mental disorder are in a positive direction, as they adapt Greek legislation to international practice. However, has it been estimated what structures and staff needs are and has the corresponding cost been incurred, when almost all relevant actors point to the fact that mental health structures are falling apart? The second part of the bill consists of a series of incoherent provisions governing matters of political, criminal and administrative courts. I will stand in Article 22 on consensus divorces with a notary act. For us, what is important is that the divorce procedure is simpler - it has been made simpler in recent years - by exempting consenting spouses from bureaucracy, by making it as fast as possible at the least cost and with the maximum legal certainty. Are you doing this with the arrangement you're bringing? I'm not sure at all. We're not against the choice of an out-of-court wedding solution. This has an ideological mark, which we consider to be right. However, if we really choose and want to ensure the extrajudicial resolution of the marriage, then we should not focus on the presence of a notary or lawyer, because as you put it, it looks like a customer transfer from one professional team to another, but that this procedure at some point is considered appropriate to be controlled by a judicial decision or provision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u460	It's a cohabitation pact.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u461	That's right. The institutions have pointed this out to you. They have highlighted the risk of not automatically highlighting the consensual divorce issued by notaries from other countries - members of the European Union or of jeopardising issues relating to the resolution of marriage, such as, for example, the excessive interest of children. So we have to be very careful. Let's see what the report of the Parliament's Scientific Service says on this matter. It says, therefore, that procedural guarantees which act as a positive means of protecting marriage and family, and in particular of childhood, must be safeguarded. It proposes that the proposed arrangement of the notarial solution to the marriage be applied only in the absence of children. It is a proposal made by the Committee of the Regions report to the Minister. Answer her. If he doesn't want to respond to us on specific issues that we put forward, he has to answer that. Or in the case of a cross-border divorce, whose law is not applicable in Greek, it says that in that case the notary should inform the spouses and abstain from the adoption of a marriage solution act. Are all this going to be answered today or are we going to a new problem procedure from now on? I do not want to stay on other issues of the bill, because the debate has been overshadowed by the amendments. We have discussed many issues, but I want to stay on two issues: first of all, there has been a debate this morning on auctions. I told the Minister a few issues and he answered them. I was really impressed that he replied that we were right to shout and call the slogan: 'No house in the hands of a banker'. I was expecting a self-criticism here about what they have said in the election. Instead of this self-criticism, I heard that we were rightly shouting: 'No house in the hands of a banker' and now we are actually doing the opposite. Let us at least say 'no house except for the big time, apart from the very wealthy ones' and we did not say that in the run-up to the election. That's not it. At the same time, as far as the issue of the own-initiative procedure is concerned, it has not been answered because it wants to give this signal to those who are against the auctions today. Because this signal is not coming here to give for those right now - and many times they are attacking the Ministry of National Defence, in the Greek Parliament, in hospitals - create ghettos in entire parts of the country. And this signal of self-prosecuting we have not chosen to give it to these cases, to universities and to many other cases, but we choose to give it to those who come to the auctions. So instead of giving the mark there and, of course, dealing with this issue in an overall way, they give the signal here! Instead of giving the protection mark of first home and additional legislation to cover all the gaps that exist, we give the mark of legislating for the own-initiative procedure to those who protest in the auctions. The Democratic Alliance has tabled a proposal for a law, as it has tabled for the first residence. Instead of responding positively to such proposals, therefore, substantial, progressive, what the government is doing is to protect the auction process substantially. I now come to another amendment that was analysed before Mr Blonde, the Minister for Health. Here really science raises hands up. You will allow me to say that I did not understand - and I spoke to many Members, who also did not understand - whether Mr Blonde wants to release the profession or keep it unliberated. Look what has happened in this case: there was a setup. In 2016, he tried by ministerial decision to change the regime so that the non-medicants can open drugs and participate in 20%. It was illegally decided by the Council of State on the matter of the ministerial decision, that is to say, passing by a presidential decree. So today he goes through it by a presidential decree, but does not guarantee what will be in the CIA. Because with CIA he has to go to the final presidential decree. Of the evil, then, it says: Today, while voting on this, the Minister for Health said that until the Presidential Decree is not released. I mean, we're legislating something, it's going to apply to the presidential decree, but then someone else will have done it? At the same time, I see in the explanatory memorandum to the amendment that, without being safeguarded in the amendment, this is the pill for SYRIZA Members: "This type of regulation is, for example, ensuring a minimum percentage of participation of the designated pharmacist as responsible for proprietary status, restricting persons who may be involved in the exploitation of pharmacies, restricting the number of licences that a natural person may possess." So the amendment that says it frees and puts these three indicative figures in the explanatory statement so that the SYRIZA Members can use them in their speech and Mr Blonde does not know what he has done today, whether or not he frees the profession and what the SYRIZA's position is. Dear SYRIZA colleagues, unfortunately, you continue with this tactic to mock! Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is constantly arousing us with its prowess and magic: first in inexpensive promises to protect and reform areas in justice, first in the fragmentation of legislation and the very brief revision of these same regulations, first in the abolition of previous regulations, without the qualitative but quantitative assessment of them, first in the adoption - reintroduction of previous regulations, which, in fact, are specialised in conflicts with justice and the independent authorities. We are not talking about it, even in the Bureau of the Parliament's Budget is not renewed, as you have just seen the criticism made in relation to budgetary matters. The government first has to transform left ideas and values into highly neoliberal policies, but we are forced to follow, as SYRIZA says, and which it covers with a charitable 'ferndze', because the recycling benefits of poverty are essentially a reasonable dead end for the country. What the country needs is growth and the creation of stable jobs. We have achieved a surplus of EUR 7.5 billion over these years. Has the government drained the middle-class, over-taxed everyone to share benefits? Instead of dropping this money into growth and creating stable jobs? This government, however, is also engaged in magical work, for example in terms of unemployment, which results in flexible and unemployable work, and so you say that unemployment has fallen. It is the negotiation that results in a withdrawal, as we have seen before on specific issues in relation to auctions, in relation to pharmacy. Are the taxes and expenditure reductions that result in high growth targets and the unthinkable surpluses that we want to reduce, but do we achieve double as a country, to go to the negotiation and say 'we are told, why do you want to reduce the primary surpluses, because instead of 3.5% you will achieve 5%?' In conclusion, a series of red lines suddenly change color. In one, however, you remain firm: in the spirit of days, that of fairy tales. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u462	Thank you very much, Mr. Theocharopoulos. Here, Mr Kamaterre, you have the floor to support the parliamentary amendment with a general number of 1414 and a specialist of 133.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u463	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Because it will obviously not be the State Secretary for a long time now, I would like an answer on whether he accepts the amendment, which essentially calls for the exemption from HPAI and the Kalymnos buildings affected by the earthquake of 21 July which took place in the area of Kos, and this has to be done because Kalymnos is ultimately included in the earthquake area. The buildings are not, of course, so much as they are in Kos, they are few, but they are proven to have been affected, they are characterized by'red' and 'yellow' assurances.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u464	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u465	Thank you, Mr President. Actually, that's the way it is, as the honourable Member says, Mr. Cameroon. As regards the buildings of Kalymnos, the area of Kalymnos had been judged in an emergency after the earthquake, but a request to the Ministry of Finance had not been made by the Municipality of Kalymnos, so it was not included in the amendment tabled at the time for ENVIA. So the Kalamni people really deserve it, and I accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u466	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u467	Thank you very much to the Minister. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u468	Thank you, Mr President. I shall refer to specific amendments that have been tabled. Besides, most of us in the number were also in this bill. This method has become a rule now. In the past, it was the exception to the rule and with reasonable protests at the time. Now it's the rule and we're looking for a bill that's going to be discussed under the normal procedure. This is the opposite of the legislative work and with the tolerance of the Bureau of Parliament as a whole. Unfortunately, Mr President, this is what is happening. But it is not just a technical matter, it is also a political one. We've got the disasters. Instead of a comprehensive arrangement which concerns all areas declared to be in an emergency and which occurs, the Ministry comes in, and every time it brings an amendment to any area which has been damaged. No, gentlemen! This is not a normal legislative act. This is a customer legislative act, which has to do with your mind, which reproduces all the bad texts of the past. And I'll tell you ten more cases. Skopelos, are you all right? Whereever it is in natural disaster and is declared by the relevant Ministries, it must be part of an arrangement. This is the permanent arrangement concerning the construction, the one-off payment. I do not understand why these arrangements are done on a case-by-case basis by legislation. To do us a favor? No, no, no! It's your obligation. Leave the conurbations and bring in an integrated legislation on the subject. But that's not all. We also come to more serious issues. The fact that Mr. Kontonis and Mr. Toskas legislate and attempt on a case-by-case basis, when the laws are violated, is another characteristic of this government. Mr Theocharopoulos referred to many cases, involving the Ministry of National Defence, with Parliament - I would also like your position on them, Mr Kammenos - with the University of Macedonia, with our offices, with various cases and various perpetrators. And Mr. Kontonis comes in with a peculiar name, which must be named honorably, the name Kontonis, so that this applies only to the protection of banks, only to the protection of those who want to take homes, without separating the so-called people's residence, which they have recently invoked. There are many cases that have emerged. Recently, all parties received a confiscation report, which is for 20 December, which speeds up the auctioning for housing. And the argument of a SYRIZA MEP was that he had not joined Law 3869. Well, we know that! If he had joined Law 3869, he would have protected the law of PASOK. It has not joined, as are thousands of others. And instead of accepting our regulation by the government, which also sets an income limit and a limit for what it considers to be a home of a poor household, it comes to legislate in favour of banks and the process of accelerating auctions. These things are not the development of the SYRIZA, as one colleague has said, it is a fall and a mutation. It is a moral violation of the rulers who are making it easier, just to sign the third assessment - because this is a matter of the third assessment - just to agree with the partners and to prolong their stay in power what they have denounced in previous years. They denounced it in any case and in the tone that we had all heard. And Mr. Tsipras has obviously mutated, and now he wants to "buzzurri" to close his former comrades in jail. The one who treated the world in the 'I don't pay' movement, the one who instructed the world not to go through such procedures, now comes to 'buzzle' them. We, of course, say that the issues are being solved as a whole, after dialogue and with acceptable legislative interventions, not by repressive mechanisms created by the government. Left, he says! Pumpkins Left and even boiling! Watermelon! I'm coming to the Treasury. Instead of accepting our proposal for a law in application of Article 101 of the Constitution for the extension of the reduced VAT to the thirty two islands and for the committee to be set up, and for us to look at support measures for all the islands, it brings in an amendment, it puts a patch on it to go a little further. Reduced VAT for the five islands because of the immigration burden, not because of island status, not because of the requirement of the Constitution for six months, as if in six months it would have solved the other issues! In six months, immigration will be solved! In six months there'll be an aerial bridge! There will be no island status any more to islands. This is a miracle that the government is preparing us. And in the twenty-seven smaller islands, the presumption of poorer than those thirty-two? Not a reduced VAT rate. So their argument is falling apart too. When they had first brought about the abolition of reduced VAT, they first put their own people in the media and made propaganda "we, in Mykonos, in Santorini, where the rich will have reduced VAT?" in order to create social automation with the citizens of mainland Greece that islands, etc., should not be privileged as this reduced VAT is for businesspeople. It concerns the consumer, it concerns the competitiveness of the islands towards Turkey, it concerns many things that we have to do. So, here, it comes to destroy the very argument we were told, why? Because it abolishes the reduced VAT on the poor islands and leaves him in five because, he says, immigration. I'm coming to the other setting. At the time of about a thousand seizures a day in small amounts of microprocessors, the government is coming under urgent control - it could not bring it to another bill - to give fines and surcharges to greedy and majestics. This right, saying they are great, gives it to us that the vagueness of the provision does not have a report from the General Accounting Office of the State, that it does not provide us with any evidence. They shall even intervene in cases of pending proceedings. And that's what happened. I would like to remind the Minister, however, that from 60 billion in debts to the public in 2014, until the end of the year, they will become 104 billion, with the 14 billion in debt only in 2017. This, of course, has to do with the tax weakness over citizens, the imposition on high-tax papers and the increase in fines. And it may take a process - and it needs a process - involving first and foremost non-human beings, not starting with the possessors and possessors. If that's possible! I'm saying now. They owe the DU 4 million Greeks. For the last six months, since May, Law 4469/2017 has been passed. Why has the Ministry of Finance not yet adopted the ministerial decision whereby, in these four million Greeks - in fifty, in two, three hundred thousand, in those who want to regulate - will you allow them to join the hundred and twenty instalments for the public debts? You must make a ministerial decision under Article 15 and paragraph 21. Six months why don't you do it? To load new fines, load extra increments, don't look up-to-date? Why don't you give them the possibility? Are you in breach of the law, yes or no? Why didn't you give it away? Tell us why you weren't getting rid of her. The Minister for Labour, who had to make a similar decision with you, today in a timely question, answered me that he would get it out in a few days. I expect him to keep his word. He whispered, of course, something about negotiation and trophies - I forgot, not trophies, institutions - but, in any case, he committed himself. Can you tell us something? I do not know whether the Minister's commitment can be taken into account. Because the Minister came today and brought us regulation and an amendment that occasional workers will also pay a quarter of a year, titled to purchase as they are called or proof of professional expense and will pay 27% to pay for this - and, on 23 February - I will submit to the minutes the minutes of the debate on my topical question - was committed, saying: 'No, Mr Kegeroglu, there will be no insurance contributions on the titles of acquisition, nor the proof of professional expenses for occasional work in any case'. These are from the Minutes and Mr. Petropoulos has to come and answer who forced him to change his mind. Is this another obligation in the third assessment? Is that something similar and similar? Mr. Haritsis is here, too. Where is he? He's gone, too? He said it and he left. Ladies and gentlemen, the enthusiasts of decentralisation are making, says, a law on government, they will do something like that. It has now brought regulation, not decentralising resources, so that it can be faster, easier and in line with the desire of local bodies to implement projects, but refocusing on the centre. With the NSRF, from 2014 onwards, a very large proportion of the resources of all the funds and the European Social Fund 20% and Regional Development have been provided for in the MSF, to be implemented through the regional management authorities. It comes with Article 1 of this amendment and says that the regions will give up the funds to improve coordination at the centre. Uh, yeah, what we've seen so far and the rest of the issues! It's another innovation and originality. This regulation also has other provisions that are positive. I would ask the Bureau to ensure that the four articles of this amendment are put to the vote separately, so that Members may vote and vote against the particular articles with which they agree or disagree and that this particular amendment is not put to the vote. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u469	Thank you very much, Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u470	Mr. President, can I answer for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u471	Yes, Minister. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u472	MEP, after you did not get the record of a fine awarded to a tobacco company, repeat once again the scenario of the great-fashioned ones that will benefit from the specific amendment of Rule 72 of Law No 4174/2013. I would like to remind you that L.4174/2013 is your law and in the specific Articles 58, 58A and 59 determine the fines proportionately. I would like once again to say that we are not changing the fines, only the additional tax. No amendment on fines, which are charged, only the additional tax and are in line with your law, Law No 4174/2013, Article 58, in which fines are now counted in proportion to the tax. If you wish, I can read it to you: 10% if this amount is 5% to 20% of the tax resulting from the tax declaration, 25% of the difference if this amount exceeds 20% to 50% of the tax resulting from the tax declaration and 50% of the difference, if this amount exceeds 50% of the tax resulting from the tax declaration. So you can't talk about big time. There is a rating that you themselves voted for for a very long time in 2013.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u473	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u474	Mr President, I would like to say a word.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u475	You have the floor, Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u476	First of all, you did not enlighten us on the issue of your inaction six months ago to issue the ministerial decision, so that people can join the regulation of the hundred and twenty instalments, those with public debts more than 85% and not in the extrajudicial, those who are entrepreneurs and have income from business, but do not have bankruptcy, professionals and, of course, those who are under 20,000. You didn't give us an answer. You are entitled to the answer. I think, if you want, you can report it, it'll be positive. Secondly, the 2013 arrangement did not apply from the past, since the day of the vote. So because you're back in the past, would you like to tell us which specific debtors told you that "this is what's in place and regulate it, boy?" Who's here? Some kid came in and he told you? I don't think you'd have made any adjustment for little people? I tell you that you do not do the one that concerns four million Greeks and you do the other. Did you see it, son, or did anyone go through Maximus and told you? That's what you tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u477	Madam Minister, you have the floor to close this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u478	First of all, take care of what you say, Mr Kegeroglu, because I do not think you are honoured by all that you are saying. We don't work the way you and I worked. We don't accept people of this kind in our offices.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u479	Take her back then! Bring her to committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u480	Under no circumstances do we accept such people in our offices in order to ask us to do so. You should know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u481	If you don't want to hear it, bring it to committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u482	Mr. Kegeroglu, you're making things easier. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u483	I also said in my position: it is only about adapting legislation to the general principles of law and in line with the law of the European Union. From that point on, I can tell you again that we do not only accept, but we cannot know who they are and who they are. Do you know that there is an Independent Public Revenue Authority and that the Ministry of Finance has no interference with the Independent Public Revenue Authority? From there on, on the subject of the Joint Ministerial Decision on 120 doses, for professionals who either have bankruptcy or who do not have, up to 120 doses, the next period will be issued.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u484	Mr. Giokas has the floor. Mr. Gioka, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u485	Thank you, Mr President. SYRIZA - ANEL government proves every day that the political curse, the political cataclyst has exceeded every limit. Of course, it is not something that no one should expect. At least we've been waiting for it. When you implement an anti-grassroots policy, when you break the people, when you take anti-grass, anti-grass measures, then you will also bring people's mobilisations, and you will try to ban and the right to strike will businesses, and articles on "AGEAN" will write about the value of the doctrine of law and order and about the JRC that provocates this legitimacy, but you will also set up what you have done in the past days, and you will now, on the basis of the specific bill and the bar of the amendments that you have tabled, but also the rhetoric of the ministers that we have heard since the morning. What are the objectives of this practice that you have inaugurated? Firstly, you must catch the people and workers sleeping, as you have tried to do with the strike amendment, regardless of whether they eventually did not come out and withdraw it, so that you could bring it back. Second target. To intimidate and intimidate the people, as you do with the amendment to auctions, which, in fact, criminalises the action of all those who protest and resist this policy. Because a lot has been said since the morning, a great deal has been said by Mr Kontonis, with his well-known competitor, especially when he is addressing the JRC and, above all, is standing in the third article of the amendment which he tabled, to speak specifically and to go to all the articles of the amendment, which he told us is not changing. We are also telling you that this is not the case for the peace-keeping courts or for the auction process as a whole. Paragraph 1 of the amendment, which introduces a new exception to Article 315 of the Criminal Code, in order to prosecute itself in cases of mere physical harm. What does Article 315 refer to? To civil servants. And there in fact, there is no need for indictment, it can be done by self-prosecuting. The notaries are civil servants? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u486	It is.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u487	They're not civil servants. That's why you put auction officers to include not covered. You know well that pro rata sentence in criminal law doesn't exist. And because you know exactly, you're bringing in this setup. It is another thing that notaries who perform public service and that they are civil servants. Second matter. Paragraph 2 of the Amendment. For the threat of Article 333 of the Criminal Code, there is no self-prosecuting provision, nor is there any indictment in the case of civil servants. So this is where we are talking about the cases of the peace courts. The Government brings in an addition, which is indeed a peculiar type, so that only in the case of auctions there is an automatic prosecution. So what are you saying is that it does not apply to cases of pacifist courts, it only applies to electronic auctions? The arrangements you bring are valid for everything. The only case, which there is no radical change, is paragraph 3 on the disruption of home peace, and at random it is the only provision that Mr Constantinople has given to the Members. In fact, he said "we'll also share the Criminal Code to see". So the only provision which he has given is the provision of Article 334 of the Criminal Code. But you know very well that all this time, under Article 334 of the Criminal Code, which concerns the disruption of home peace, unions and trade unions have also been mobilised. So all three paragraphs of the amendment give the political signal to prosecute all those who are mobilised against this auction policy. So let the crowns and everything you say about the protection of so-called officials, the protection of notaries, that you want to make a confession, that you want to update legislation and so on. You are establishing the own-initiative prosecution, and in fact you are creating conditions, in order to strengthen the state arbitrariness, to wrap up in a glue of paper people, dragged into the courts, without even having a complaint or indictment by a affected person. So that's what you have in mind, terrorism, intimidation, to achieve what? What you are saying very clearly in the explanatory statement and which you are afraid to repeat here. What's that? That the above legislation is based on grounds of overriding budgetary and public interest, aimed at supporting and protecting the national economy, by carrying out the auctions as a means of strengthening the liquidity of the financial system and avoiding the need for new capitalisation. That's your stress. You have not suddenly been caught with the pain of bringing the Christmas bread amendment to cover supposedly legislative gaps. You want to achieve this. And what you are trying to do is not only, as you say, with the houses of the rich, it is done with the homes of the poor and with the people's homes, which are not protected by the gentlemen's agreements you refer to with the banks. And in order not to hide behind our finger and not to enter the case-by-case procedure, there are spaces, official websites, where auction posts are posted for 2018. You can see who is going on, what amounts are going on, and whether this is about rich houses or homes of popular families, to finish this candy, regardless of whether you start, for regular reasons, with swimming pools and villas. The auctions, for which you are committed, do not only concern this. So Mr Kontonis has misled Parliament in relation to the amendment, which we say will not only be here, and we will be here. This amendment, as has been tabled, will also act as a procurer at the expense of other forms of fighting the working people's movement. That is why we asked for a roll-call vote, we insist that everyone should take responsibility. The third objective pursued is the most important. We have told you in the debate and in the budget and, on the basis of the amendment on strikes, etc. You'll have to run tests. You give tests to the chapter, you give tests to your partners and you give guarantees that you can use equally well, beyond the carrot, which no longer washes the whip. That's why you've joined the logic of dogma law and order, and that's why you're doing all these actions. I conclude with the following: The element of your authoritarianism is the law on the economics of the parties, which is not about control and transparency, as Mr Skourletis said. Because the parties are inspected. Especially at the Communist Party of Greece is thorough and exhaustive. The aim is a legitimate argument, United States parties and a generalised file of members, friends, all who support a party financially and who do not want their name to be made public or to be given their data to banks, taxes and so on. You know very well that in this place there were people who stood in the passage, sent to exiles because they gave the aid to the JRC from their misery. We remind you what you said in 2014. Because this law is a law of the New Democracy. You, as opposition then, Mrs Gerovalis, Mr Voutsi President of Parliament, had spoken in this bill at the time. You said then both about Americanization and complexity, and of unacceptable practicing practices. You were committed to abolishing this law. And no, you're not just abolishing him, but you're actually stricting him even more. So this crescendo of authoritarianism once again proves that your policy is barbaric, that nothing is true of what you say about so-called memorial times and fair growth and so on, that popular reactions will grow. That's why you're rushing ahead - sure to take your measures. You quarrel without the hotel owner. You will have before you every day both the JRC and the working people's movement until the overthrow of this anti-popular and barbaric policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u488	Thank you very much. The parliamentary spokesman for the Golden Dawn, Mr Rabbit, followed by Ms Papakostas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u489	Thank you, Mr President. I will start by making a little mention of the bill that is being submitted today, and in particular of the provisions and articles that talk about the possibility that someone will do some criminal acts, may not enter prison, may not have any consequences at the expense of it, but may possibly be from home, by going through an examination of doubtful quality, to say that it has psychological problems, that it has the irresponsibility and that there is no consistency, to visit only once a month if it is a psychiatric store and say that everything is fine. The question we have to ask the government is that so long that we have been here, two and a half years, the Left Government has done and legislated only for all minorities, for all the problematic types we have encountered, for something of homosexuals, for something problematic, for mentally disturbed. The ordinary Greek citizen, the law, doesn't he have rights today? Is nothing worthy of this Greek society? A man who just works and wants to support his family, what does he have? What does the Greek state provide him today? Does he have free health? Does he have free education? Does he have security at home with his family? Not all of this is enough, but it has to be tolerated and cannot talk at all about things that they do not like and do not satisfy. So we have reached a paranoia that we live in. Ask the government officials and something else: if these people who will commit a crime and who will then be released, who will not go to prison or have any criminal prosecutions, others and will go for a walk to the psychiatric hospital and will be released, if they commit other crimes, if other people, their relatives or others, will the government ministers assume responsibility for this? For some time ago, we lived and lived daily on the phenomenon of the Law of Friday, which released the sara and the marble from the Greek prisons. He's got horrific criminals out who do exactly the same thing. They enter the homes of innocent people, shops, they kill them and they plunder. And what do we see from the news reports and from all the journalists? That 90% of these are people who have already committed the same offences. So they went inside for two and three years, while they should rot in prisons, they were released, they have no consequence and they continue their destructive work. The Greek citizen, the taxpayer, who will protect him for all this? Where's that man gonna find his point? Where will it be addressed, since you are the only ones to legislate on minorities? So let the ordinary Greek citizen also say that it is a minority in Greece if he finds his point somewhere, because otherwise I don't think he'll win anything. Let us now come to the point at issue in the end of today's debate on the issue of auctions and on what is happening and on what Mr Kontonis has once again put forward, which is really inconsistent and is saying things which have nothing to do with reality. So we see here that those who are blocking auctions, those who stand toward them have the problem and the danger that they may already be imprisoned on their own initiative without any other prosecution, just because they are standing against auctions. Of course, we did not see the same sensitivity when your ideological - and not only - children enter the House when they attack innocent people when they enter the universities when they are burdening anyone who has an opposite view of them. That is where we have not seen any consistency for all of them. There they are young people who are supposedly struggling for their rights, while they are some scumbags who do whatever they want, because you are in government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u490	Mr. Rabbit, please! Let's avoid these characterizations a little, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u491	Well, guys, I can't say it. So we see these things happening. So we saw that the Minister, Mr. Kontonis, has come out and said that what is true about the peace tribunal for auctions - we have not done, he says, something terrible - will also apply to the offices of notaries. But here's the whole thing. Slowly, the auctions are evolving. They become electronic now, so they will be made through houses, through offices where no one will have the right to react to them. No one will have the right to express their opposition or protest to do anything. So you are going to lose the houses of the Greeks, who unfortunately went bankrupt over the governments and the New Democracy and the PASOK, and of course now on SYRIZA - ANEL. Whenever we do it in the mosquito, at night in some offices in which no one will know anything, to lose the first residences of Greek citizens. He had the nerve a moment ago, the Minister said there were no first home auctions. Where have you seen these things? But are they so enthusiastic? Are they such liars? So we'll tell you where we've seen these. On 10-01-2018 Piraeus Bank is making a real estate worth 43,000 euros. Piraeus Bank at 30-05-2018 takes first house apartment 76 squares, worth 50,000 euros. The same day another first house, 70 square apartments will be auctioned for 62,000 euros. And if they don't do what they're going to do to you, because there's a long list here, we'll tell you that on Wednesday 29-11-2017 there were twelve auctions, including many first houses, Mr. Kontonis, who are not here to answer all this. In fact, a first home was auctioned in Moschato for debts of less than EUR 30,000. He was also auctioned first home in Halandri for debts and debts of 43,000 euros. These are, Mr. Contonis, the first houses that have been auctioned. You probably don't know them because you don't care. We also have to say that on Wednesday, November 29, 2017, it was to be auctioned - and thankfully it was not done either because some notaries had gone because they were afraid or because there were some reactions - a first house in Athens, in Patisia, worth 62,000 euros and a first residence in Galachi, worth 92,000 euros from Alpha Bank both. As also, Alpha Bank has auctioned an apartment in Cholargos, first house, worth 128,000 euros and with the same money a first home in Nea Smyrni. That's if you like them, and if you don't like them! Of course, for Mr. Contonis, there may not be all of this. These first homes may be for games of people and not for there they have housed their dreams and families. At the same time, of course, the Greek state, with the help of various NGOs, gives unscrupulous apartments and homes to illegal immigrants to come in, enter, give them benefits. There's no problem over there. If, however, the Greeks took the memoirs 1500 euros before the memoirs and could put some money to buy a house and today, under the present circumstances, this money went under half and cannot pay, this man loses his homes. So this is the left-wing government. And so he is struggling to convince Mr. Condonis that what he does is right and is trying to pick them up, because there are some reactions. Of course, only verbal reactions, because consciously there are no reactions. Everyone will come to the roll-call vote which will come soon to vote for agreeing with what is happening. Because the Member's chair is very sweet and they don't think they're going to leave her. So this is about first homes and auctions, which do not exist for the government. Unfortunately, however, for the Greek people, there exist for the reality. I will now come to another issue and talk about other issues of topical and urgent importance. We saw a few days ago the President, Erdogan, in Thrace and make a tour leader with the tolerance of the Greek state. They came out to convince us some of the government that Erdogan's presence was not negative. "He didn't do anything wrong," he says. He appeared as a leader in a Muslim minority that exists in our Thrace in order to represent the leader there and no one reacted. It is not wrong that Erdogan, according to a mobile camera that recorded his speech, went to a school in the Muslim minority and told the children who were there that "all of us are Turkey". The government had no problem. Minister Amanatidis, who was next door, could not pick anything up. He was sitting there, trying to lukewarm, but, unfortunately, for Greece, he was written "shoes" and put aside. That's not a problem. We see after Minister Gabroglou, before even Erdogan's plane lands in Turkey, going out and actually accept the request that Erdogan put forward, saying that mufts in Thrace should be elected by the Muslim minority. And there was no one there when he said that, because he said it to the Presidential Palace, he also told the Prime Minister of Greece, who knows or has the courage to tell him that this is not happening in Turkey either. In Turkey, mufts are not elected, but are appointed by the state. But Erdogan came here to teach us that there, in Thrace, the Muslim minority must vote for them in order to put their own arrogant people. It was no accident, of course, that when the car that carried Erdogan, for those who attended and knew, he stopped outside the mosque, the three fake mosquitoes, the mufts that recognize the Turkish consulate, but not the Greek state. How humiliated can this Greek state become now, this "peret"? And Gabroglou goes out and says he's going to make it acceptable and they're going to discuss this issue. Not only that, but we discussed yesterday in a bill that will come after the holidays on the subject of sharia in Thrace. But here it is the oxymomile and the joke and the at the same time dangerous nationalities, that sharia does not exist in Turkey either. And there those who have differences go to their judges as normal. But this is where they want to apply other laws, Muslims. They have found a submissive government which, unfortunately, accepts it all. I would also like to refer to something I read a moment ago. I saw that all the parties, who are "fighting" for the first residences of the Greeks, who are trying not to leave the hammer and in auctions, the homes of the people for 30,000 and 40,000 and 500,000, as with data from us as Golden Dawn, give a Christmas gift in the turmoil of the days four million euros, which will be shared here by all the wings. Millions of euros! One of these, of all these political parties, has not come out to say that we do not want this money and want it to be returned to the Greek taxpayers, to those who have been afflicted for so many years. How, then, do you have the requirement that the Greek people make sacrifices for you when they see that you are grabbing both pockets, both on the right and on the left hand, but you are constantly demanding that they be patient and pay 'bloody' tax sacrifices, which you are imposing on them? Because there is no foreign policy in Greece and our ministries "sleep in the sleep of law", when Erdogan went up on Thrace made a big mistake for Turkey. He officially recognised, by means of statements he made, that there is, of course, a Pomacian minority, that there are Pomacians in Thrace, something that Turkish expansion has been denying. This should be the greatest gift for the Greek Government, and it should be used and told Erdogan to shut his mouth and not dare to say that there is an alleged Turkish minority. For there are Pomas and Roma, who are the vast majority of Muslims in Thrace. This, of course, the Greek state did not understand and only Greek Pomans came out, fortunately, and they say attributes here that "Pomaks of Thrace thank Erdogan" because they recognized that there are the Pomans in our Thrace. I want to submit it to the Minutes for there to be. [[At this point, the Member, Mr. Lagos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] The Greek state didn't take it. We tell them today if they want to use it for us if they are not as 'whispers' as they show. I shall end with another matter that concerns our foreign policy. It is incomprehensible that Greece has closed our embassy in Syria for about five years now. It is incomprehensible, in essence, to punish the only state, the only leader, Assad, who messed with the jihadists, with these Islamopian people who wanted to destroy everything and managed to stop them. It was the last streak. He was able to stop them and Greece punished him by closing the embassy and essentially without diplomatic relations with Syria. And in order for the younger ones to learn and remember the older ones, when in 1987 Greece had had problems with the gruesome Turks once again, when Andreas Papandreou had asked for assistance from the Syrian government, his father legally elected today's leader, Assad, had extended Syrian troops to the border with Turkey and had said by an official statement that "if a Turk stepped on Greek soils, that means it is as if he stepped on Syrian territories and would fight Turkey". That is the thanks of Greece today, that is the thanks of the Greek governments, and that is why Greece in foreign policy is left alone, without really supporting it. Because you're ungrateful and you're all dragging, right-wing or left-wing, behind the American chariot. That's against you! I would like to conclude by saying that the Greek Government should ask for registration, with the assistance of the Patriarchate of Antioch and UNESCO, of the Christian and Greek legacy that are there and of the ruins that have been done. The Greek Government should claim this if it had the elementary national equilibrium. But he doesn't. He looks at how he gets the embassy from Syria. So we need to highlight all these monuments, the legacy of our country, whether Christian temples or earlier monuments that exist, record and show them, and not pay attention to the Syrian government and leader Assad who has succeeded and stopped, I repeat, the jihadists. Finally, notice some behaviors that exist. Because we are only talking about illegal immigrants and young Muslims coming to Greece, who are unfortunately the vast majority. But there are also some children coming, who are Christian, orthodox. We have an official complaint that three Syrian children are currently in a camp in Lero, under constant pressure, being beaten by Muslims who are there and the Greek Government has them abandoned. If they were Muslims, they'd all be in the bars to defend them. They are, however, Christian Orthodox, and that is the price they pay. Make sure you're a little smarter and make sure you make a fairer foreign policy. And as for your fairy tales, which have something to do with the fact that no first house comes out in the hammer, you will tell the SYRIZA MPs, who have made them hungry and believe what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u492	Mrs Papakostas has the floor and Mr Michelovanakis will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u493	Thank you, Mr President. I have been attending the meeting since its beginning, i.e. since the morning, and I would like to present my opinion to this House. Because I happen to be a Democritus fan, who says 'with reason, saying and doing a good job', that is to say 'to think properly, to speak properly and to do what is to be done', I think that the composition of this House and the way we are discussing in this respect by Democritus and something we must do about it. I would also like to say that there is another phrase that Greek society calls it simpler. I am going to say it in its original form: 'You hate other no poetry', i.e. 'what you do not want to do', and I refer to the subject of the famous debate that has been taking place since this morning in relation to the amendments. I must say that I fully agree with the reversal of the speech of the Minister of Justice who said: 'Why are you discussing amendments, because you are opening such a matter, while the government's statement is that these are absolutely urgent and therefore necessary, in order to resolve a number of issues which are urgent and should not be left to their luck'. I agree and amplify. And I wonder: 'You hate other no poetry' is just about it. The same issue was raised by the coup d'état with the New Democracy. We had the same problem as ministers about what was then called a pathogen, a self-interested behaviour of the ministers of government and which was being supported. And in any case, we were under severe poles and fire storm as ministers of the then government from the then Census, despite the fact that we invoked the necessity and urgency, which were really both. So, ladies and gentlemen, we must distinguish things so that we can go under the umbrella of the Democritus saying about thinking properly, speaking properly and doing what you have to do. To separate the pathogens and distortions in the parliamentary debate between maliciousness, plurality and the vulnerability of amendments which do not serve the right legality. It is also another debate which actually requires the law of need or the urgent need to legislate by means of amendments to finally consult this Parliament. This is a first observation. The second point is that all legislation - and I am now referring to the issue of auctions - I have a clear position, ladies and gentlemen. I am in favour of protecting the first home again, not because it sounds pleasantly in a social group, but because it is the state's obligation to protect the weak. And it's the state's obligation to shield those social groups that feel they're being put in because they're just weak, and so I'm suddenly in favour of protecting the first home. And I am against what is called'strategic malpractices'. I say this in order to clarify my position and clarify it and to speak clearly in this Parliament. I must, however, propose to the government precisely in this position and have been consistent with this view. The extension of this own-initiative report must be accompanied by an element of sine qua non, which is not without discussion with the European Central Bank, because the informal agreement with the bankers is not enough to protect the first home. Because once they are done with the strategic poor payers, they will also reach the dwellings that do not belong to this category. I would also like to add a point which I am making to you as a proposal. These strategic poor payers should be made public. The Greek people must know who pays with excessive sacrifices who these strategic poor payers are. This is the second point of my remark. If this is not accompanied by consultation with the European Central Bank, then I think the informal agreement with the banks will not work. As far as mentally ills are concerned, I've heard a few things. Listen, we had the opportunity to work, to work hard for almost a year at the Ministry of Health with two other colleagues. I had the subject of psychiatric reform within my competence. Psychiatric reform must be completed. We had then reached the Ministry of Justice of the time - the elections were held, and this was not launched - to do what you have brought today, Minister, that is to say, the regulation of Article 22, which is moving in a direction which is part of psychiatric reform, which is part of the protection of human rights. However, I would like to propose to you, and I think it would be appropriate to provide - because it is important for the applicable policy, not just the proper legislation and the intention and philosophy of the legislature, but also for the policy pursued - a process, Minister, which combines elements of unpredictable hospitalisation and the combination of Articles 13 and 14 of this policy, so that we can say that in its implementation the policy will achieve and bring the expected fruits. [[At this point the Z' Vice-President of the House takes over Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES]] Now, with regard to the question of the need for judges, which took place in a debate, it is an incidental issue that emerged from the debate, not a question of the draft law, but a political issue. I will give you my opinion in order to balance between the judges' decision, which touched the formal part of its formality and the substance of the proper administration of justice, but also of the decisions. I call upon a phrase that Adamantios Korais says, because we have a society in which we are also addressing politicians and judges and governments and all of them: "The judges should have as their guide their customs, texts and above all the right word," says Adamantios Korais. So I think that is a phrase which, now updated by the need for times and by the decisions that we have seen, fits perfectly in this case. And, in any case, not all of this should be grounded in the mill of any opposition, any communication need to raise tons for voters' reasons. There must be red lines in the way that politics and justice and the government are all working together in a context of respect for the institutions without trying to save communication success either way. Because what eventually arises as a fruit is to denounce the institutions as a whole, and we and the judges and the governors and all. Of course, I am also referring to our behaviour when we are in the government and in our attitude when we are in the opposition where we function as follows: Did Deligiannis be asked by a foreign journalist at the time that he was in the opposition "What are you going to do now?" And he told the foreign journalist "But, of course, I will do the opposite of what Trikoupis does." This is in relation to the way we do it when we are in the opposition's headquarters and in the way we do it when we are in the government's headquarters. Result? This picture, the lack of understanding and the Greek people blurred and confused to think that we are all the same together. Allow me, Mr President, to raise two very brief points.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u494	But we're late, Mrs. Papakosta.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u495	I will end in a minute, Mr President. For the amendment you have put forward, the Ministry of National Defence to regulate the payment of the one-off aid - there is no one here from the Ministry of National Defence to explain it - from the special accounts of mutual assistance from the EBRD I have to propose that the options that have been made so far in this regard are wrong. Wrong choice with the Katrugalu law is the main military insurance policy to be subject to the ECA. And the second mistaken choice of the shareholder funds, while typically falling under the Ministry of National Defence, were actually set, by the Katorugalos Act, to limit them, thus being influenced by the policy of the Ministry of Labour and not by their natural roof, which is the Ministry of National Defence. I therefore propose that the errors of the Katrugalou law be corrected by abolishing paragraph 9 of Article 35 and Article 49. I suggest that you restore the independence of the Armed Forces' and their branches. Let the Ministry of National Defence, based on the proportionate studies and the viability of its funds, determine the home. It is not a subsidiary fund, you should know, ladies and gentlemen, and they do not accept a public contribution. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Article 22, the possibility of consensus divorce, I believe that the right solution, Mr Minister, is the possibility of resolving marriage by notarial instrument only if there are no children. That's my suggestion. Because I will tell you that the Member States that have already legislated in this direction have provided for the introduction of protective arrangements in the event that children have been born and are still minor. So I propose to you the possibility of resolving marriage by means of a notarial act, in fact, but only if there are no children. A positive article 29 on pro-zootic unions, because there is also the phrase 'I've known people and loved animals' and we see that. You're doing very well to legislate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u496	Mrs. Papakostas, you're in 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u497	I'm done, Mr. President. I mean, the cannabis thing. It is a technical matter, I think, but it should be made clear to everyone. I would expect a clarification - it is, of course, in your responsibilities, Minister - for the kind of use. If it's industrial, I agree, if it's addictive, I disagree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u498	It's for industrial. It's the arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u499	Does the layout say so? I didn't see it that way, to be honest. I'll see. I wish you were right. In any case, I would like to say that, in this context, I think we should legislate without high tone anymore, assuming that correct legislation is in the interest of the groups of people we want to serve. I wish the Bureau and all my fellow Members a good holiday and a good Christmas. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u500	Mr Michelovannakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u501	First we need to talk about the bill. Until now, people with mental or mental disorders were treated with incarceration for indefinite time, with the sole aim of addressing their risk. No one was involved in treating them, a safe treatment, just for safety, more guarding with extermination sentences in poor living conditions. In storage in a public healing store that has been done so far, we now use treatment measures in a special department of psychiatric or general hospital and psychiatric surveillance in a mental health establishment or in an external medical hospital. Enforcement of the security measure by the court only by means of a judicial board, by public procedure, by a hearing and with the possibility of involving the victim of the wrongdoing. The seriousness of the crime is increased in one year rather than six months to date. The conditions for the enforcement of the measure shall be met by two experts, one immediately after the arrest and the other as close as possible to the court. Maximum time for a two-year flood and for a felony over five years. The treatment and counsellor and the address of the unit are present. The re-checker every year instead of every three years. The establishment of the Public Prosecutor-supervisor of the treatment measures is hereby established. Costs or accommodation in supervised areas. Now, as far as consensual divorce is concerned. Now extrajudicially with the participation of both spouses, two prosecuting lawyers and a notary for the religious marriage of a spiritual solution. Upgrade, thus, the role of lawyer and divorce in a few days. Clearly positive. Potential to bring an oral action in the proceedings for interim measures. The case-law, relating to annulment cases before the Council of State and before ordinary administrative courts, as it exempts from the obligation to be present in the court and is in line with that applicable to differences in substance in the ordinary administrative courts, as well as the procedural proceedings of disputes of substance in all courts. Possibility of presenting a political response to philosophical unions. That's very positive, too. Potential to postpone the pre-confidential note and after the case has been discussed before the decision is given by notice of the proxy lawyer, so that the legal instrument or aid which has been discussed is not limited to that reason alone. Prosecutors' positions are increasing. Very positive. Adjustment of a maximum permitted limit of tetrahydrocannabinol, if scientifically appropriate. Thus, approved industrial cannabis growers are protected against criminal prosecution, where the tetrahydrocannabinol content exceeds legality because of various factors and environmental conditions which they cannot predict themselves. So we improve detention conditions, modernise infrastructure, face juvenile infraction, create health services in prisons. We are speeding up the administration of justice and protecting human rights. Minister, with regard to the self-determination of criminal prosecutions on those who practice violence, no one is talking about it. However, with regard to the own-initiative criminal prosecution with a prison sentence of six or three months, where appropriate, to anyone who enters and remains in auction platforms against the enforcement process, interrupting or disturbing the proper conduct of them, I would urge you to take it back, firstly, because the auction - one understands - wants legislation on protection and in no case the history, the DNA of SYRIZA, its movement character leaves no room for criminalising popular mobilisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u502	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Christos Boukokouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u503	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I fear I do not have much to supplement the core of the bill today. After all, our rapporteur, Mr Karagkounis, has been in detail about the shortcomings of the law, but also about the way in which the current government is legislated. But today we have the opportunity to refer to the big social issue of auctions. You are bringing an amendment that extends the protection of auctions. One might wonder if that is a bad thing. On the basis of our legal system and our legal culture, no one has the right to interfere with public officials in the performance of their duties, much more intimidate them and intimidate them. That is why the legislator, too, provides, as a matter of urgency, for the offences of the occupation of judges, judges and judges to be persecuted, as well as for all the serious issues that are directed against the disruption of such procedures and its officials. So you extend this protection and turn some of the offences, which have been persecuted today in public places, such as threats to notaries, public officials, to self-prosecuted offences. Could anyone say that it makes sense, because if anyone threatens or is in a court of a rape, then what is it going to do outside of court? He's gonna shoot? But from that point on, Mr Minister, you say that the amendment that comes mainly covers and converts these offences from insulting offences to self-prosecuting in private places and you say that you want to protect notarial offices from which electronic auctions are conducted. Of course, that is - if you want - a little lame, because you are bringing an amendment of contractual content to protect an electronic procedure. We all know that with a modern auction platform and an access code for the notaries these procedures are not necessarily initiated by the notaries' offices, but can be launched from any point of view. Consequently, something else is behind this story. For example, Minister, if your former comrades, against whom this amendment turns, start throwing stones into the homes of the notaries, start intimidating them on the street, are you prepared to change the entire criminal code to turn all these offences into self-prosecutors, in order to implement your commitments on auctions? Questions are hypothetical. But we don't know exactly where this story will end. I say this, Minister, because I see you agree that these questions are hypothetical at this point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u504	I don't agree at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u505	But do you know what your majority colleagues are shaking today? The treatment they will have from their former partners, because they know them well. In any case, Minister, since these offences have been automatically persecuted for so long, how many have you arrested? How many criminal prosecutions were persecuted? There were some arrests and liberation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u506	Is the government doing this? Is the government practicing criminal law?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u507	No, of course, but the police when they arrest and lay off without following the proceedings, that responsibility lies with the Ministry of Public Order and don't tell me no. So no one. So something else really is behind this amendment. A modern state does not make bows - I told you before - to fight spaceships. We are talking about an electronic process and you are saying that with the threat of the author will block these processes and protect the electronic process. In the question of whether the notaries should be protected, we are clearly saying yes, as are every official. The answer, however, to the question of whether not the notaries are protected from this amendment, is even clearer and is clearly not.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u508	Why? As the notaries ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u509	I have already explained to you examples that you are hypothetical, but that is not a hypothetical one at all, Minister. There was the legal framework and was automatically persecuted most of these offences and I ask you how many people were arrested and you tell me, but now you tell me that the notaries will be protected. It's not true. So what are you doing? Just implement the Prime Minister's commitments towards lenders and towards the Association of Greek Banks after their recent meeting. Mostly, however, you are attempting to send a left-hand message to your former comrades, those with whom you walked side by side in the course of deception of the Greek people - and it is mild the term that I am using - for the conquest of power. You know them very well. You went along. Together you conquered power. Because, Minister, if you hadn't done what you did in the Constitution, in the tolls, in the peacehouses, in the port of Piraeus, in the workplace, in the banks, if you hadn't done anything, if you hadn't done politically even the suicides of our unfortunate fellow citizens, you would not see power not with the chili, but with the macaroni. You are now putting an amendment, a track-marking left-hand project and threatening your former comrades, perhaps the JRC, that you will bomb them and take them down. Because now you are a dogmat, a power that you will always keep, in every way and at all costs. At the same time, you are looking for accomplices and among us, accomplices in deceiving and in your cynical political mutation. You will not find any accomplices among us, Minister. At the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen of the government, since you have been unable to protect a hundredths of the country's pacifist courts, how will you be able to protect the hundreds of notarial offices? As for your allegations of first residence and that they do not apply, I will tell you a small event for a minute, Minister, that happened yesterday in my city in Volos. I hope you know the refugee homes. They are the ones built by the Greek state, mamarules a dagger, to restore the refugees in 1922, after the Asia Minor disaster. So, a heir of two such houses nearing...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u510	He's a heir?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u511	He's a heir. From 1922 to today what will it be?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u512	And this is first residence? Since he's a heir, how's his first residence?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u513	It's his first and only residence. He had the unfortunate inspiration in 2004, Minister, when we tied dogs up with sausages, to get a loan of 110,000 euros, unite the two small houses and turn them into a first home for his five-member family. By 2010 he normally paid his doses. Then he stayed out of work. This family houses two unemployed and three children. Yesterday, then, the auction was posted and the last minute was cancelled.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u514	So it didn't happen!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u515	It is mentioned by two historic newspapers of Volos, "TACHYDROMOS" and "THESALIA"! It was cancelled because of the uproar of local society and publications.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u516	What do you say, sir? It's disinformation!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u517	Why did he have to be terrified, ma'am, of a five-member family?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u518	Had he entered the law of Katseli?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u519	I don't know if he entered the law of Katseli. I'm filing the two newspapers in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Boukoros, presents for the minutes the above mentioned newspapers, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] They're not newspapers, booklets. They're over-century, both newspapers. It's serious newspapers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u520	Mr. Comrade, finish it up!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u521	I shall conclude, Mr President. All the speakers have exceeded ten minutes. And he was in the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u522	That does not mean we have to do it by the end of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u523	Not to say, then, that this is not happening or happening in another country. As for pharmacists, who are not your subject, Minister, I would remind you that they have turned their drugs into electoral centres for SYRIZA, following an irresponsible trade union leadership. In 2015 you made a ministerial decision to satisfy them in part. If you had legislated then, Minister, the Council of State could not have retrospectively come and judged that ministerial decision for formal reasons, demanding legislation on this matter. If you had seriously seen the matter as a government, this matter would have left the horizon of the prerequisites. So the responsibility is yours and for the pharmacists. And after all, Minister, you have been ruling for three years. You say you took the second election. Those who claim that the 2015 Memorandum was known and approved by the Greek people are falsely claiming. If you really treat the Greek people honestly, do elections late January in three years, now that the Greek people know about you and you and let him decide! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u524	Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u525	Eventually you have not left a day when you do not confirm that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the parties and SYRIZA and ANEL are in today's best political staff in the big capital and civil order in our country. And we really have to admit that you have put the glasses in both New Democracy and PASOK. And it is not a great deal of effort to prove reality, only these amendments, which may seem scorpiony, but which have a red line that unites them and consolidates them. For example, the release of the pharmacist's profession. In other words, it is also possible for non-medicines to open pharmacies. It is a project launched by the New Democracy and the PASOK, which began extinguishing the sweater in the name of opening the so-called "clicker professions" and you complete this crime. Don't say you didn't know or want to. Moreover, as a government, you have repeatedly stated that the OECD first and second toolboxes must be applied. And the OECD toolbox provided for this: the release of the pharmacist's profession, i.e. that they could open up pharmacopoeia and non-medicine. And where will this situation lead? Clearly, it will lead to the gathering. Why don't you tell me now that you individually give the right and you don't give the right to anonymous companies to create pharmacies or take the form of public limited companies. Because you know very well that what pharmaceuticals wanted is to get into the retail and be able to open such shops in everyone's name, provided they have the staircase. After all, franchise is an individual company and not an anonymous company. It could well be transported and turned right into it. In this respect, therefore, you are concentrating and giving large pharmaceutical companies the right to extend to the retail sector of medicines. And at the same time, what do you shape? You also have public health risks, because there will be over-consumption of medicines. That's what you're doing. Isn't that a gift to big capital? Who is it to? Secondly, the second gift to large capital is precisely the tax amendment. What kind of gift do you give to business groups? Delete the additional taxes. Why? Do they need to? How much are these amounts? It's undetermined, says the General Accounting Office of the State. Undetermined amount, gift to business groups, at the same time thinking about how you will tax more people's incomes and what other form of tax you will find for the people. At the same time, you're making tax gifts. And we are not talking about your official commitment that you will further reduce the tax rate to legal persons from 29% to 26%. Third element: Remove the reduced VAT on the Aegean islands. Isn't that an attack on the standard of living of the people's families in island regions? And it is an additional attack, because they have to carry all the previous burdens that you and the previous governments have borne on them and on tax and wage cuts, pensions, reductions in social expenditure. And you come provocatively and what do you say? "We'll pay off a bonus," you say. It is the donation logic, that is, we condemn them to poverty and impoverishment and, on the other hand, 'Let's give them something. And you consider it equivalent. If it was equivalent, why abolish the reduced VAT, having the same effect on budgetary figures? So this is not equivalent. And of course, it is also challenging that you connect it to the refugee - immigration - the retention for six months. So, what is it? It is the logic of 'cutting the salami', so that it can go much easier,'swaping the sweater', the definitive abolition of the reduced VAT on the islands. What, as a JRC, do we say? We say that indirect taxation and VAT paid by the people must be abolished. And from this point of view, what we invite you to do is what, at this stage? To bring an amendment to suspending indefinitely the abolition of the reduced VAT on island regions. That's what we invite you to do. But that's not what you're doing. Fourth point: Attacking workers. The Secretary of State for Labour provocatively came here to say: 'We cover up and try to put order on the labour market'. And what are you doing? You impose insurance contributions on these informal forms of work, i.e. workers who are paid with proof of professional expenses. This way, what are you doing? You legalize this informal form of addicted work. In fact, not only do you legalize it, but you also reduce their earnings by 26.9%. This will be the insurance cost that these workers have to pay in informal forms of work. So you're reducing their wages by 26.9% and at the same time, what do you say? You reward the employer, because he will not have any involvement in the insurance cover himself. Well done, what you're doing! What are you talking about not only in ELSTAT, which uses such forms, but also in private and private companies? This is the message you send under this provision: "You don't have to have a dependent form of work, get workers with proof of professional expenses and get benefits because you don't have an employer contribution to the insurance funds". Do you go and legalize the work jungle on substance and you want Bravo? Or shame? It is this deplorable act that you are doing. Fifth point: Criminalize - and this is the essence of the matter, no matter how hard it is to hide it - the mobilisations against auctions. Self-determined persecution, state arbitrary. Our rapporteur, Yannis Giokas, said so. What's the issue? Not to protect the people's residence. You say this clearly in the rapporteur's report: 'Superior public and budgetary interest imposes this measure'. And what is this supreme public and financial interest? These are the measures to strengthen the liquidity of the financial system and to avoid the need for a new recapitalisation. This is the ultimate interest you are defending, the saving of the financial system and not the saving of the needs of the people's strata. You sacrifice the satisfaction of people's needs to protect the financial system. In this respect, then, the sweater is, of course, beginning to be dismantled by Stathakis. In the report he said he would protect 60% of the first houses. The rest? Second element of how the sweater began to dismantle to enter the auctions and first homes: From 1 January 2018, housing loans - not only the red, any housing loan - can be sold in funds, as you called them before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u526	Consumer loans...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u527	In the case of auctions, not only are loans to banks, but also debts to taxes, insurance funds. That is where the auctions and first homes take place. What do you want to do? To terrorize the world, to resort to the banks, to compromise with the pursuits of the banks, just trying to save their home, selling out everything else they may have. The last element in this context of authoritarianism, which you are demonstrating and with a great deal of courage, concerns the question of the funding of the parties. Who, really, are you mocking that you want to impose transparency? You apply the directions of GRECO. What is, really, GRECO? Who has legalized this GRECO and you bring it here? It is a reactionary organization, which in the name of dealing with black political money wants to make it "white" political money. That's what she wants to do with her proposals. He wants to formalise the conflict between the parties and business, between the parties and the various economic lobbys, to officially transform the parties into business subsidiaries. And don't tell me now that black political money is moving with the 5, 10 or 15 euro coupons. The millions aren't given on the coupons. Don't go crazy now!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u528	He's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u529	So who are you going to target? This Party, which has historical ties with the people, is funded and supported by the people with the coupons. We, as a JRC, have certainly not tolerated any control. But look, the ties with the people are so strong that neither persecution nor imprisonment prevented the movement of coupons in times when the Party was in illegality. Watch out: The half-century JRC was illegal from the hundred years of its life and did not sign a declaration of repentance nor will it now sign a declaration of repentance on GRECO and every imperialist organization and on the governments that serve its interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u530	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative Mr Georgadas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u531	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate has been rotated on the issue of auctions, on the basis of the amendment tabled and on the basis of the reasons, the reasons, the facts which led to the need for such regulation. To end with some inaccuracies - not to lie - which are heard here, I will give the position of the New Democracy over time and I would ask the Minister if he can then disprove what I am going to say. Let's just remind you first of all: When the crisis broke out, the first provision that came to protect the weaker households was nr.3869/2010, the well-known Katseli law. The New Democracy was then in Opposition. He voted for this law. SYRIZA didn't vote for him. It is good to remember that Law 3869/2010, which calls it day - night by the Prime Minister and all the government officials, did not vote for him in 2010. The law therefore had specific protection and opportunity for the first residence in Article 9, in which it states that ‘the debtor may submit to the court a proposal for liquidation, asking for exemption from the divestment of fixed or non-built immovable property which serves as his principal residence’ and which had minimum conditions. You come with you, Minister, with the famous law Stathakis, who supposedly protected the first residence more than it was already, you amend Law 3869 and Article 14 of Law 4346/2015 you say what must happen until December 31st 2018 to protect the first residence. It has many cumulative conditions and, indeed, one of them, I think it applies in very few cases. The first, this property to be the main home, sets preconditions for the monthly income of the family, sets the objective value requirement and fourth, says, the debtor must be a cooperating borrower, according to the Bank's Code of Conduct. Has anyone read the code of conduct of banks, to see what a cooperating borrower will say, and that we are really in the hands of banks? Do you agree, Mr. Carras?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u532	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u533	This code has specific, very narrow conditions for how the borrower should respond to the invitation of the banker. If there were no such strict conditions under the code, and if that were not the specific requirement, cumulatively with the other three, the Prime Minister would not ask the bankers the other day. If there is the legislative framework, why should the Prime Minister go and be with the bankers? Tell them what? If the legislative framework is clear and the first residence is protected, why should the Prime Minister "express" and ask bankers to protect the first residence? But outside the protection of the first residence, based on the Katseli law, there was another horizontal protection from the New Democracy, a horizontal protection that went with lasting annual suspensions each year. Now we are listening to SYRIZA Members telling us "with these suspensions you have maximised the problem". Hasn't that been heard, Mr. Voridis? We maximised the problem, protecting horizontally and suspending main home auctions for an amount of an objective value of up to EUR 200,000. I am, of course, reading this provision. It is L.4224/2013 Article 2: ‘From 1-1-2014 to 31-12/2014, no auctioning of immovable property debtors serving as principal residence shall be prohibited and their objective value shall not exceed EUR 200,000’. Fully horizontal protection. Where is she today? If you want to tell us that we're all out of your mind and we can't understand the government and you're saying that the first residence is protected, your ex-complainants why are they going outside the pacifist courtrooms? To protect shipowners or malicious payers?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u534	I said it before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u535	They've been misunderstood, they've been misled.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u536	It was 1,450,000 Swiss francs auctions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u537	So they're going for it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u538	I don't know. Ask them where you sum them up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u539	Tell me: If the framework is mandatory, why does the Prime Minister call on the bankers? Tell them what? Apply the mandatory framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u540	How do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u541	We know very well that it has been committed. That's an announcement. Priorization, he told them, hierarchy. Why would they do a hierarchy? Is there a need, when the legislative framework is clear, to make hierarchy? We know very well that you have committed the banks to clearing their red loans. How will their red loans be cleared? It is therefore a fragmentary arrangement, which has been created on the basis of the unclear framework that exists in relation to the protection of the first home. Of course, we would like to applaud the government's excessive zeal to protect some public officials in the performance of their duties, but we would very much like to see this protection extended to other public officials who, at the time of their work, enjoy, are threatened, are subject to violence within public services. There we have seen no opposition from the government to an unsolved persecution of all of this, to the protection of those public officials who do their duty too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u542	Isn't that the law about them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u543	Did you make any announcements about them? Did you show any interest?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u544	Now you're talking about an announcement...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u545	Did you invite the public prosecutors to intervene on their own initiative? Did I see any orders from you? Did I see any interest in you? I haven't seen anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u546	We won't agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u547	Ladies and gentlemen, the whole world has gone crazy and believes that the first residence is not protected while it is protected. I, who will go to Kilkis today, will say to them "Don't worry about all the first residences - because we have no more than 300,000 euros in Kilkis - are protected". And everyone will believe me because the government said so. I have two amendments to which I have to make a reference. The Minister responsible for the amendment is missing in relation to Article 72 of the Code on Tax Procedure. The Minister has already fought us because we cannot understand it, we cannot understand it. Do you know what I understand? It is very interesting to monitor the development of this amendment. I accept that with the principle of retrospectiveness, in relation to softer law, there could be an intervention by the government. I do not understand, however, why this also applies to irrevocable decisions and not all the irrevocable ones. He says they're forbidden, except for the irrevocable. They don't exclude any irrevocable ones. Do you know what's not excluded? Those for which the decision has been issued have not been notified to the taxpayer. I mean, listen now. There is an irrevocable decision rejecting the taxpayer's demands. It does not apply the principle of softer law. Today is two decisions. One day the clerk runs and the next day he serves it. He cannot enter into this favorable law and pay sub-chapterly fines. The other person who may be detained may and will be served on the taxpayer later will benefit. It will be very interesting to see how many irrevocable decisions that have been adopted today, the publication of the law, are those that have not been served and who will benefit tomorrow. I cannot accept as a legal person that for an irrevocable decision to which the court has assessed everything, we are now coming here on an amendment, on a legislative initiative, with legislative action, and we are intervening in this irrevocable judicial decision. Who wants this? The unsettled ones I have to accept. The irreversible? Of course you say: Excluded are irrevocable, except for the irrevocable ones that have not been served. It's very interesting. We'll see. We'll watch it. To say something else that's my subject. I will tell you about another amendment brought by Mrs Gerovali. He developed it in committee. It was very interesting. He has tabled an amendment which substantially widens the scope of those who are entitled to apply for the well-known positions that are expected of the administrative and sectoral secretaries.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u548	It has brought about a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u549	There, therefore, after our interventions, other than civil servants, there was a change in the possibility of private sector involvement. Mrs Gerovas says that not only the permanent civil staff are entitled to apply, but also the one which does not have a permanent relationship with the public. Do you know who this is about? It concerns already serving general secretaries, posted officials of the Ministers, posted officials of Members who have no permanent employment relationship. Now all of these will apply to be administrative and sectoral secretaries - and the general secretaries have the right - and then we will talk about the colonisation of the public as a joke, I imagine. The Secretary-General now serving, with this amendment, has the right to apply tomorrow. It will be done and the Minister will go to choose between the three finals, which one of the three will get. Will he take the former secretary-general, the former retired employee or someone else? In fact, in her expectation and concern to be able to pass this amendment, she has removed from the text of the law the earlier provision on the possibility of those working in the private sector. Fortunately after an intervention, made by me in the House, it has brought it into line and included it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u550	So, what's your complaint? He heard you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u551	Yeah, we're talking about a bill entitled...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u552	He's doing it like that, badly. He does it differently, again badly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u553	Understand, Minister? Aren't you telling me, is it fair and moral that your Ministry's transgressor should become an administrative secretary tomorrow? Is that the decoupling of the public?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u554	Your office poster?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u555	We'll ban it. They're political.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u556	The same goes for everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u557	But the title of your bill is "public decommissioning". And we give the possibility - with the title 'public decommissioning', which you are advertising, and you keep saying that you did something - the Secretary-General who is now serving or the poster of the Ministry, can take over the post of director, with the Minister's choice, and we are talking about the decommissioning of the public. We'll see who'll understand the positions of the secretaries. Around twenty people, who are currently serving in positions of responsibility, learn that they are preparing applications and they are already registered. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Here we go, and we'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u558	Why, they don't have the right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u559	Recognizing is clearly your achievement and this as well as many others, and of course, above all, first residence, protection of first residence. I, for what I said, want to be an estate of colleagues, who cannot follow it, in relation to the protection of the first residence, deposit both the Katseli law and the Stathakis law and the 2014 provision, with which we were protecting the first residence horizontally. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u560	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u561	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u562	Minister, do you want the floor for two-three minutes? How much time do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u563	Very little, Mr President. First of all, I am impressed by the fact that when the Qualified Opposition points out something and is accepted by the government, it comes back and blames the government because it has accepted it. I mean, that's terrible stuff we hear here! What can I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u564	We got you and you corrected it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u565	Yeah, you got us. And because you caught us, we accepted what you said. There's also uncertainties. So, when we made comments and accepted by Mr. Athanasios in the previous parliament, we would come after and criticize you? We barely praised you. You come here and you criticize us. Secondly, this is not an amendment from the Ministry of Justice. It's Mrs. Papanatsiou's. And you referred to the outstanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u566	Paragraph 2.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u567	Like this. It says, therefore, that ‘the cases which have been discussed and which have not been decided irrevocably by the court’. Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u568	Keep going. So far, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u569	Well done. Take note now of what he says: 'or an irreversible decision has been taken'. Here you come and read that even if it has been issued irrevocably, which has not been served.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u570	Continue below, read the whole thing, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u571	The order, Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u572	Read it all, Minister. Below!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u573	But that's what I'm telling you. What's next, sir? Here you have come and told us that the Minister brings a provision that says that the outstanding ones are included - that is what you said earlier - and irreversible ones, which have not been served. And it says: 'not irreversible, which has not been served'. What are you talking about? Do you read?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u574	Of course I've read them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u575	Yeah. And I read the provision to you and it says 'not irreversible'. And you said here for five minutes: 'Greatly not served'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u576	That's it! But he's saying it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u577	What can I tell you? You don't understand, and what am I telling you? Or don't you understand what you said?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u578	I get it all. And people understand it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u579	So I tell you that we are in an absurd situation here. The provision, Mr Colleague, does not refer to'mutuals who have not been served'. That is what you said in your speech. The provision refers to ‘not irreversible’. But at last! Because it made me a little impression. Am I saying'solid decision'? It is 'not irreversible' that the provision is expressly stated. Get serious, finally a little bit. Don't think you're discovering America! Secondly, I wanted to ask, but Mr Karathanasopoulos is not here. But Mr. Tassos is here. Mr Colleagues, I have been transferred - because I was not here, but I have tried to come, but I have lost it for a very short time - that Mr Giokas said - if I have been properly transferred to me properly, I have a reservation, which is why I am asking this amendment on third-party liability against notaries who carry out their duties. And I said that we do not disagree only with Article 334, but with both previous paragraphs. As far as 333 is concerned, I said that the government is considering it and I will announce the decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u580	What's he looking at?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u581	It shall examine whether paragraph 2 of the first Article will remain. But in the article on physical damage, we do not make any modifications. Physical harm to public officials is an offence, which is automatically persecuted. I'm saying that for what? And I tell all Members, I am simply addressing you, Mr Voridis. If our disagreement is limited to Article 333, it is very easy to resolve it. The government's already looking into it. But if the disagreement is structural, then we are approaching it differently.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u582	It could be both.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u583	Obviously, disagreement is legal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u584	Oh, no. I said structural. In other words, if we can agree, say and accept what the government says, yes, in paragraph 2 of this provision, there is an improvement in the author's order, I said this morning to Mr Pafile that we have indeed gone a step further, not to the penalty, to the own-initiative...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u585	Excuse me, 315 isn't there an additional one?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u586	Wait a minute. In paragraph 1 and 3, however, there is nothing more. Only that we also have not had the notaries to face this situation. If we agree on these two, then it is important to say so explicitly and to reach a wider agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u587	Mr. Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u588	Mr President, I have to say that today I have had an unprecedented experience in this Chamber. I felt I was participating in a small Ministerial Council, which I have followed. The number of amendments was such that the majority of the Ministers which he has produced gave them the opportunity to make some of them, instead of developing amendments, to make the evaluation of the year. Especially in the health sector, with a speech half an hour ago. I was unable, in fact, to observe what the amendments were, because I listened to them in fact, unrealistic and intentional. I want to stand by this bill, which we are talking about. Of course, I must refer to the bill vote because of the large number of objects it deals with. But let me give you one or two examples. I would like to refer to Rule 26 in particular and to address the lawyers of ours. For what? It says that in the Council of State, lawyers may declare in a declaration that they do not wish to attend and to proceed with the debate on the matter. This has happened in the other courts, it has happened in lower courts. There is no doubt that it promotes, it improves the ability of lawyers to attend many meetings at the same time. I don't know. Mr. Paradoxopoulos or I are the oldest lawyers in the Chamber. We won't call the ages now, Mr. Paradoxopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u589	I was born in 1949.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u590	You two go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u591	No, that's right. I'm with the professor. I'm not hiding it. What do I mean? Since the highest courts and, in particular, the plenary are responsible for judging the constitutionality or non-legislative, I do not want the debate to remain written, typically 'no attendance', but I want oral debate to be held and, if you wish, Mr Minister, and mandatory. It may not sound good to our colleagues in the sense that they should remain at the audience, but it is an issue of justice and, if you like, of proper administration of justice, this point in the sense that dialogue also helps judges.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u592	With a joint statement. Both of you agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u593	That's not it. Already in the Council of State, as we know, we can omit the oral debate, say we do not want growth. I will, however, insist specifically on the plenary where Article 100 of the Constitution determines the issues of constitutionality or not. I will insist on this point and I will say that we need to have an oral debate. And you want me to move on to something else that may be secondary, but it is worth it! I was taught as a new lawyer in the hearings of the Supreme Courts and recommended to my colleagues that younger colleagues as an educational stage attend these meetings. So I think they offered. That's where we can't squeeze it. I have not heard the view of the Association of Judges of the Council of State because they were not invited to draft the bill, I have not been able to hear their views. I take the initiative to put it - I think it is reasonable - because we will complement the knowledge of younger colleagues, at least empirically, and we must not deprive them of them. I'm going to other issues of the bill. For philosophical organisations, I must say that I have a sympathy. I agree with the provision of civil law, even for the support of the category. I would just like to note at this point: we may often have a conflict in the sense that the legitimate interest of the local organisation and the organisation of a national level is not precisely identified. The right to present a political response to a local or national level pro-zootic organisation is granted. I don't know if it'll bring any conflict into practice. I note this as an issue which may, without intent, reduce the protection we wish to provide. I think that the House at this point has no objection to the provision of protection. Another issue, which I imagine can be over soon or opened soon, is the issue of auctions. I am not in favour of violence. I have to say that I have been concerned about many of the behaviours of the last few years. But the specific provision that comes today - as I see it - I think it is premature. I have to explain why I'm saying this. Because we have not yet closed the protection framework for first residence. And I bring examples immediately and briefly. I'm not talking about those who joined the law of Katseli. I'm still talking about the negligent or those who can't ask for protection...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u594	By 2018 they can.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u595	Let me finish. You'll listen to me if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u596	Because I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u597	I'm not talking about those who join. I am talking about those who do not join or have the opportunity to join. And I put a note, since you want this debate to be opened. Is the guarantor of the Katseli Act automatically protected by Article 12? It says 'no' to Article 12 of Law 3869. The guarantor does not follow luck if a protection decision is issued and is liable for the entire original debt. The guarantor is usually the relative, the friend who passed by - I've said it before - who called him inside the bank to sign. As far as the extrajudicial mechanism is concerned, do you know what problems it's going to cause? We still have not seen in the experience of its implementation, but it has one issue: Those who join and the first-time debtors and the guarantors should make available their liquid assets to meet the obligations. I'm leaving them aside. Merchants might be the ones. The guarantors are not always merchants. I said they're friends, they're neighbors, they're family. But we have another problem. In that case that we do not have an economic use within the last three years profitable, these are pre-empted on the basis of the platform of the extrajudicial mechanism. So here, it is now opening up the issue. They're merchants. They have bankruptcy and therefore their property and individual residence, first residence, are responsible for debts which have no legal way of questioning them. They can't go to the law after they have bankruptcy. The same applies to members of personal companies. The same applies to guarantors and in general to those rejected by the extrajudicial mechanism. Because, as you know, Minister, the debtor does not go alone. They're going to pack. There goes the conciliator, the guarantor goes, all of them go together a nice company to hand over their property. So I think that in these areas it is the solution that needs to be given to the protection of first residence and the rest of it later. Finally, I've made a proposal that I've done before. There is the platform that faced the issue of social dividends. So let's find a solution. We can avoid the courts at first instance, find a solution to a pre-text so that it can with this platform when everyone wants on its own initiative - I do not say that we will make it compulsory - to provide the financial, social, family and, if it comes out with a mathematical formula that it fails to meet its obligation, it can be exempted and without harming the banks. I must remind you that the House has voted for twenty years on the bank's deferred tax requirement. The deferred tax requirement of the banks is the compensation and compensation for the write-offs that banks will make from loans that will not achieve the recovery or achieve the write-off through courts. I would therefore like to conclude by ending - and I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President - that if we do not take these earlier measures, it is not important if the House votes for the protection of notaries, if the House still votes for felony acts. We have not provided any protection at home. And I will insist on this point that it should be protected, because it is our social obligation. We are talking about this very well today, but can we offer this protection? I therefore call on all the sides of the Chamber to discuss it and make decisions. In fact, in order to facilitate, because I have not had the honour of receiving answers, I have tabled a series of questions on this point which I have mentioned, which describes the legal and substantive wording and the details that I think are necessary. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u598	Thank you, too. It's Mr. Cameroon's turn now. I would, however, like to give the floor to Mr Thebeau to intervene on the amendment to the EAW. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u599	Thank you, Mr President. This is the amendment with a general number 1405 and a specialist 126, which concerns the extension of the granting of tax and insurance information to the Greek Air Industry, the EAA. Paragraph 2 of Article 5 of Law 4244/2014 excludes the Greek Air Industry from the obligation to produce evidence of information provided by Article 12 of Law 4174/2013 on transactions or transactions as defined. The exemption from the submission of information was repeated for 2015, 2016 and 2017. On the basis of subparagraphs (c) and (d) of the original case, the exemption is proposed up to 31/12/2018, since it is assessed that, for reasons of uninterrupted operation, the undertaking should be extended until that date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u600	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Kamaterre, this is where I'm being informed that you have spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u601	I had spoken for a minute to present the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u602	Good, thanks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u603	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u604	Wait a minute, Mr. Kamaterre. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u605	Let me make it clear that the parliamentary amendments tabled must be accepted by the relevant Minister. It's self-evident. I think you all know that thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u606	It is a good thing, however, that we respect both time and order, Mr Kamatere.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u607	You're telling me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u608	And to you, because last time it wasn't the amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u609	Mr President, I have tabled an amendment. I have been asked, because this is the procedure, to support it for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u610	Ministerial amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u611	I have tabled an amendment to this effect. And I was asked for a minute to support it, and I didn't even support it. I just asked the Minister, who was here, whether or not she would be accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u612	In any case, I would like to say that we need to take a little care of the time. The Conference of Presidents held a full debate on what time we will be going today, how long the process will last.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u613	Good, interrupt Mr. Athanasios who spoke seventeen minutes!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u614	Excuse me, because we also have a roll-call vote...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u615	You may have interrupted Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u616	We're fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u617	The 'we're good' is relevant. You say so, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u618	Mr. Athanasios spoke seventeen minutes instead of seven, and you're interfering with me? I'll be in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u619	So, Mr. Kamaterre, don't I take the intervention? You should go in 20 minutes, then, if we go like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u620	Before I talk? Have I spoken, Mr. President? Did I start talking?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u621	I am in a good climate trying to manage the time and you tell me that 'the other guy spoke seventeen minutes, so I am entitled to go 20'? What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u622	Can I get started?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u623	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u624	Not with the best omens. Anyway. First of all, I must thank the Minister, Mr Kontonis, and Mrs Papanatsiou, for accepting the amendment which restores an injustice for the buildings in Kalymnos, which were affected by the earthquake proven and for which an autopsy was carried out and characterised as'red' or 'yellow'. They were not included in the decision exempting the buildings of HNVY for the earthquake that took place in Kos on 21 July for the years 2017 and 2018 and with this simple amendment, as little as it is, why they were not compared with the damage suffered by Kos. But Kalymnos is in the demarcated zone as an earthquake area. We also need to solve a misunderstanding, because some sites, as they inform me, are publishing that Kalymnos is included in the five islands where the reduced VAT rate is maintained by the end of June. There has obviously been a misunderstanding from this amendment, which we tabled and accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, when we were discussing the budget in plenary, I tried to demonstrate the hypocrisy of counter-population and especially of the New Democracy on a number of issues, much more about the reduced rate of VAT on the islands, for my part, of their interest in it. Today, following the position of Mr Athanasios and the announcements made by both the New Democracy and Members of the New Republic of the islands, I would like to denounce not more hypocrisy, but the analgesia of the New Democracy MPs and the party's positions on this issue as a whole. They've learned to denounce us for lies, they tell us liars, but testifying lies. Mr Athanasios tried to tell us that the abolition of the reduced VAT rate was not imposed by the lenders, but we imposed it, that we simply had a general framework for saving resources, and we chose to abolish the reduced VAT rate. I'm sorry, Mr. Athanasios. And I'm sorry she left and she won't vote for the order. But I'm sure that as long as he was a judge he was more objective and had better, of course, approaching objectivity. Why is it with what evidence here that we have abolished the reduced VAT rate? On the contrary, there is evidence and we submit it - and Mr Athanasios and the mayors of the islands know - that, in a question asked by Mr Yunker, he replied to them by saying that the European Union's view on the reduced VAT rate, which he says, 'The introduction of different rates on the islands creates distortions and leaves room for tax evasion'. That is the European Union's view of VAT. We're filing data. It seems, however, that Mr Athanasios, from a court of law, has overshadowed the'mission' of the political and, in particular, of the New Democracy, which has no purpose but to make micro-policy on the back of the islands. They have the nerve right now, when others are struggling for the islands, to "hate" is supposed to abolish the reduced rate of VAT and the situation of the islands, as well as the needs of the islands and others. The reduced rate of VAT was introduced in 1986 as the only measure on island policy since then. Well done then. It's okay. I wish it would last and I wish it would last. But what did they do for the islands? Was that their obligation to be island? So, with this reduced rate, the problems of the islands have been solved so far? And they accuse us of those who ruled for so many decades? For what? Are we being invoked for the maritime transport that has made a monopoly, and cannot anyone easily intervene? Are we being indicted for the air transport that's made them a monopoly? Are we being indicted for health, which was abandoned by the hospitals, especially the small islands, for so many decades? We are being indicted for education that children have not had to go to school, or are schools abandoned on small islands and cannot continue and why have no measures been taken, any measures can be taken? Are we being indicted for the services which have closed taxes, for example, on islands, or which have been left unregulated and in particular without employees? Now they come to give up on us for the problems of the islands? We have, on the contrary, been working on island policy for a long time. Prime Minister of Nisser, announced island measures last year. In this context, we must also see the reduced rate of VAT. Yeah, we'd like to keep it. However, with the implementation of a wider framework of island measures, in which the'shipboard' is the equivalent, we are sure that we can achieve, even with the abolition of the reduced VAT rate, not only that the islands are not damaged but that they are in a much better position than they were at the reduced rate. Because the transport equivalent hits the heart of the problem, the isolation of the islands, the distance from the centre and the increased cost of transport. Because, for those who do not know it again, the transport today, which we are supposed to have a reduced rate, is not 30% cheaper. It's 24% of transport. And it was assumed that the reduced rate of VAT was to cover transport costs. We, with the application of the transport equivalent, which is estimated to be about 40% higher costs for transport and persons and goods, will be able precisely to cover this problem, which has so far not only covered transport, but also created a number of problems. So, through an overall island policy, which we gradually implement and repeat, with the edge of the spear, with the flagship of the equivalent of transport, we will reach the result we want. Until then, because we hope and have as a target and commitment to do so in the middle of 2018, we are taking some relief measures to the islands of the last group - the remaining of the thirty two, the twenty-seven islands - in which from 1/1/2018 the reduced rate is abolished. They'll still be more beneficial and you'll see. Because the social dividend, which is given as a one-off compensation until the transport equivalent is applied in six months, is not just the social dividend they have received so far, but it is very wide. The same platform can be used, but it includes incomes much larger, including deposits of up to 50 thousand and covers a 70% -75% of residents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u625	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute to say which parliamentary amendments we are accepting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u626	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u627	I would like to inform you - because I have just contacted Mr Tsakalotos on the amendment by Mr Thebes - that amendments Nos 1404/125, 1405/126, 1407/127 and 1414/133 are accepted. They're accepted. They have the approval of the relevant ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u628	Mr. Vorides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u629	However, if we are to be fully informed, ladies and gentlemen, we do not have to entrench on matters which are self-proof of the texts brought about by the government. I say this because I have heard a long argument about the issue of auctions. And if you bother to read only the explanatory statement of this amendment, you will see what feasibility it serves. I read: 'The above legislation is based on reasons of overriding financial and public interest' - and I stress the 'financial' - 'which aim first of all to support and protect the national economy through the incomplete execution of the auctions as a means of strengthening the liquidity of the financial system'. He doesn't say anything about private. The financial system says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u630	Go on, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u631	‘And avoid the need for a new recapitalisation of the banks’.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u632	And below.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u633	‘On the other hand, to ensure the legal protection of notaries carrying out auctions as their agents’. In other words, the staff of the auctions they are being auctioned and the need to protect the financial system, i.e. banks, to avoid recapitulating them. What don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u634	Who said we don't understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u635	Two minutes. Don't tell us that too. I'm so sorry. You said before: 'No house in the hands of a banker'. You told us it was about private requirements. What does private requirements have to do with them? And you told us the examples of the lady auctioning for the nutrition and the example of the workers...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u636	Not only, Mr. Voridis. And more I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u637	You're leaving me now? Why are you interrupting?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u638	Please, Mr Voridis, we have a horizontal and vertical confrontation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u639	Obviously.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u640	Mr President, what kind of procedure is this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u641	Mr. Georgiadis, sometimes the conversation reveals and proves things. What do we do? Aren't you interested in this dialogue?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u642	But I say, Mr Vorides, that neither I nor you have put things in the other's mouth. I, Mr Vorides, said not only about private differences but also about first residences that exceed a sum and the other one can prove to be paying. That's what I said. And that's what Stathakis says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u643	You have enthusiastically and most prominently brought examples. You have said this particular example too. It's true. But you told us about poor mother who doesn't take the diet. You told us about the poor workers who need to be paid. And I read here about the bank recapitalisation. Let's make up our minds. Or no house in the hands of a banker, so there's no bank recapitalisation, or that's why it's done. And now let's go and whether you're doing anything added or not. I wonder why we're practicing for self-evident. But you're obviously doing something to add. Evidently, something has been introduced into the legislation, precisely to achieve the objectives of the explanatory statement. What are you doing? Ladies and gentlemen, I am not tired. The threat, as we know, is only persecuted by imprisonment, namely, in a few words, only if the threatened person so requests. What comes in here and says? The auction staff threatened will be persecuted on their own initiative. In two words, someone said a threat to the auction employee, heard the class organ and arrested him. That's what's going on. It's self-determined prosecution. Is it an additive or is it not an additive?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u644	I told you we were reviewing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u645	Allow me. When you change the layout, we'll see what you change. Is this about conducting electronic auctions or any auction? Secondly, you said in Article 315 that it is the provision that causes physical damage - that the person who suffers physical damage, when he is a civil servant, is also being persecuted on his own behalf. Yes, sir! A public employee is the auction employee, but he's not a civil servant. So what's added here? It is added that in this case too, and before having to prosecute itself, it is now automatically moving.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u646	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u647	So are these additives in this process, which effectively make and shield the auctions from your former companions, who go and disturb her? Now don't be fooled, that's the target, your ex-comrades. I won't be arrested under this provision. Ms. Konstantopoulou will be arrested, Mr. Lafazanis will be arrested, the people of the JRC will be arrested, they will be arrested. Am I going to be arrested? So we should be informed. That's what this arrangement does. And now I wonder what we're talking about. As to whether or not the first residence is protected, I beg your pardon, but this is a debate that was then explained, when the Stathakis law came, which was then explained to leave blanks. We're not gonna do it again now. Obviously, the first residence is not fully protected, as was protected until 31-12-2014.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u648	Those who can pay, they'll pay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u649	Okay. Listen, it is a great pleasure for me to listen with passion to defend the auctions of first home.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u650	On the contrary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u651	You need to understand that, I am very happy to hear this because you have to think about one, if one of us ever raised the question of the liquidity of the financial system in relation to the auctions, what was heard by you, who are now silent, you do not have a word and you are ready to vote. That cannot be pointed out. I come to another thing dedicated to the drug trade movement, the allied president and everyone else. Remember the strikes on SYRIZA? Do you remember on Georgiadis and Voridis "we will do all the pharmacies for SYRIZA elections"? Uh, let's think about it one more time now. Because, of course, we had disastrous this arrangement, although we had been asked to do so and we had backed it up not once, not twice, but several times. Now, the setting's coming. And what now did the Minister come to tell us? You heard him and applauded him. He says, "Hey, what do I ask of you, of the majority Members here? Give me the authority to draw up a presidential decree because the ministerial decision fell. But now, until the Presidential Decree comes out, the old are true." Question: The presidential decree will take it off or will it not take it off? If the President-in-Office takes off, will he implement these or will he not implement them? What answer is that? I legislate not to legislate, but I will eventually legislate. And that was applauded. All right! And I'm just coming to say two words about the bill. On this famous issue of industrial cannabis, you brought in a regulation, I heard you. I will not say that it is not good, to recognise this to the Minister, that it shows a flexibility in a number of issues. In other words, while starting to recommend increasing the level of the psychotropic substance in question to 0.8%, because there is a lack of documentation, it is thinking about restoring it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u652	I brought it back in law school.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u653	You took it to 0.3%. However, I will say: what is the need to change a provision, and indeed so important, when this does not have scientific documentation and does not result? There comes a provision and we say 'we will take it 0.8%', it shows us that this is in the air, and we say 'what do we do now?', instead of withdrawing it, which would be right, so that, if there is any special reason, we can study it specifically - because there is obviously no argument for this - we now say 'let's do it down, let's take it up a little bit'. Well, that's not a logic of legislation! As you will also allow me to say that I have seen the provision for the change to Article 2, which was the essential article we are now discussing, on the issue of irresponsible criminals. But there's still a gap, the gap of what happens after that deadline, the one you say the maximum penalty. Consider the argument of proportionality, that is, here in the case of Mr Paradise. Why does this happen again as a problem? It is precisely because there is the confusion that we have identified - I do not have the time to extend now - to the committee between the concept of punishment and the security measure, the treatment measure, the imprisonment measure to be treated, as you say, I do not care about the wording. The point is that there is an irresponsible dangerous criminal and society must be protected and healed. Because you change the nature of the measure and treat it as a penalty, a number of dead ends, dogmatic and legal, are created in all the arrangements. So what does that mean? That eventually came a bill, where ultimately its added value, if you'll excuse me, was the bad regulation on consensual divorce and all that you bring with amendments pressed down, just so that there is no wide-ranging debate on Christmas to avoid the reactions that exist within society. I would like to make it clear that this type of inconsistencies, inconsistencies, constant lies, but ultimately the tragic way in which huge issues are dealt with is something that leads to an absolute deadlock for the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u654	Thank you, Mr. Voridis. My colleague, George Papaleou, has the floor. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u655	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, despite the fact that the debate was about the amendments and, in particular, the amendment on auctions, I would like to mention the bill and the regulations it contains. The bill contains arrangements that redirect chapters of the Criminal Law in a progressive direction. They remove it from the punitive attitude that they have experienced in the past and allow it to move along the tracks of humanism and modern perceptions of prison. At the same time, it contains arrangements that move towards extrajudicial resolution of issues, without the unnecessary involvement of the state, as in the case of consensus divorce and, finally, contains arrangements that can make justice more accessible, easier and faster. The starting point and reference point with this bill in the field of dealing with persons exempted from the penalty, due to mental or mental disorder, were developments in the international and European legal order in the decades after the end of the Second World War, which bind the Greek legislator and enforce his compliance with fundamental human rights defence texts. These developments are based on new scientific, psychiatric and other interdisciplinary approaches, which lead to closed immunity care in Community mental health care. The basis and purpose of this change is to protect human rights. The proposed measures for persons exempted from the penalty, due to mental or mental disorder, have as their main objective the provision of treatment. The obsolete long-term incarceration in immunity units is abolished and in its place modern measures aimed primarily at treatment are adopted, while at the same time ensuring the protection of fundamental property of offenders and third parties. In this context, the traditional concept of treating healing only in the light of safety is enriched by modern scientific approaches to psychiatric care as a provision of mental health services in order to make it restored but also to achieve social reintegration. The emphasis today is on ensuring a high level of health care and health surveillance, which is predetermined by the objective of exclusive penitentiary supervision. In this context, it is now laid down that the court is solely responsible for enforcing the measures envisaged. I'll report to the consensual divorce. The revision of the consensual divorce arrangements is necessary in order to make it easier and more rapid for the parties to the process of consensual divorce, including the agreement on custody, child nutrition and communication with them and the resolution of the marriage. The Parties' agreement is confirmed, ratified by a notarial instrument. The notarial type surrounding the will of the parties shall be established in order to have an enforceable title. The general, but also the European trend is the declassification of cases in which the parties agree. In the case of consensual divorce, there is no dispute which needs to be resolved by the courts. Therefore, there is no question of the unconstitutionality of the relevant regulation, as has been said by some of the Vice-Presidents, since there is no difference to resolve. Ex-husbands, societies want to solve the marriage without the state's involvement. Since marriage is a serious case, however, the solution chosen is that of enclosing the notary type, in fact, since notaries perform a public office and, in addition, of presenting proxy lawyers, one for each party. After all, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot be in favour of mediation and the out-of-court resolution of disputes, but to deny them on such an important but also so personal subject. I am going to make a reference to what has been said recently about the alleged conflict between the executive and the judiciary. Under the Constitution, the judiciary is independent. This does not mean that justice is above criticism, nor is it uncontrolled. Criticism against judicial decisions and other acts and movements of judicial power can be exercised - and is exercised - by anyone and by public persons, who are also citizens. And the judges are judged. Manipulation and intervention exist only when bodies of the other appointed powers in a non-transparent manner attempt to influence the judicial crisis, but not for cases relating to the administration and internal questions of justice. This was neither done nor attempted by the present Government and the Minister for Justice. On the contrary, in the past, there have been such practices in cases of public interest. The judicial decisions, ladies and gentlemen, are not taken vacantly, but in the context of this particular economic, social reality. Justice is not working within a test tube and a society's absentiac. In the last period of judicial decisions on matters such as 'underground', the five-year limitation on tax matters, which -o of the miracle - include lists of tax evasion, labour relations, etc. have caused at least questions, as have the salaries and pensions of judges treated by their own terms and conditions, different from the wages and pensions of the rest of the citizens. In other words, the judges use two standards. The country has been under the regime of memoranda for many years. All citizens have suffered a violent impairment of their incomes. At the same time, in recent years, there has been an attempt to rationalise legislation so that taxation can meet the constitutional requirements. The persistence of judges to exclude themselves from rules aimed at equality, full control and transparency also raises questions and concerns. As regards the very recent decision of the Council of State on 'from now on', it must be said that it is in direct conflict with the principles of transparency and equality and the need for full control of incomes and the introduction of rules on justice and equality in the tax system. That is, in fact, the abolition of'substantially obsolete'. One last thing: Ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population Officer, you who, as your rapporteur has unfoundedly claimed, strangle and will be financially strangled by the amendment to the parties' finances, can tell us how and when you will repay your debts that exceed EUR 200 million from your uncontrolled lending by the banks over the last few years. That is why we have never received any response from anyone, from the New Democracy or from the PASOK. And one last thing about the arrangement for the auctions. Minister, the introduction of legislation without doubt produces or can produce legal effects. The question is whether the social and political consequences that these legislation will cause in their implementation are those laid down in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law. And I would say that in this regard, the issue remains open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u656	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Adonis Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u657	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it was some time in 2014 when I was invited to a show at the "REAL FM" of Mr. Manos Niflis and Aki Pavlopoulou. In that interview I was consulted on auctions, and then I told them that in a capitalist free economy system, auctions are necessary to strengthen bank credit and to reduce unemployment, to enable banks to grant loans and all the rest. When I said that, in the next 15 days, there was no SYRIZA Member who wouldn't beat me up on radios and televisions. Not even one! I'm sure you too, Mr. Condonne, if I look, I'll find your own statement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u658	No way!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u659	SYRIZA press release. I had the morning shows to be understood unstoppable, because I dared to say that auctions are indeed a tool within the free economy to strengthen banking faith. So you understand my surprise when I see Mr Stavros Kontonis and SYRIZA with how much warmth today they support the stability of the banks. You know, I've lived in this House all these years and I've heard all the cords you've been talking about 'bad bankers' and all of us who've been 'protecting' the banks all these years. One could reasonably say, I heard Mr. Dannelly say earlier, that "yes, SYRIZA has the right to change his mind." So I come to that. I have the impression, Minister, that you are in too much trouble and remember me for the day I tell you this. You said earlier to Mr Voridis that you would remove this request from the amendment if I understood it correctly. Your commitment to the members of the SYRIZA is that, in order to vote for this provision, the self-determination will be abolished. So I will substantiate my argument on that basis if what you have said is true. Is that what you said? Is it true or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u660	Oh, no. I didn't say that. For Article 333, we're only thinking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u661	Only for Article 333?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u662	We're still thinking about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u663	It's not certain yet. We're thinking about it. So I'll tell you what's gonna happen if you remove the autogovernment. What's going on today? First of all, as far as the big debate is concerned, whether you are legislating more or not. Let's see it a little logical and aristocratically. You are the SYRIZA of movements, ecology, radicalism and five or six others, in my opinion, flaming. That's your right. We've got the auctions now. Yes, sir. The movement of movements that SYRIZA is, isn't SYRIZA just a movement coming up and legislates in favour of the movements that the auctions are now asking to stop or against the movements? Apparently, anti-mobile. Very good. Others say it's a sign of SYRIZA's maturation. And I accept that. It means that SYRIZA accepts that in the past he was immature, that is, stupid and now he is mature, that is, more reasonable. And that's what I like. And that's what I agree with. But there is a more important issue here. If you remove the self-claimer, will the amendment work to make the auctions and stabilise the banking system? Answer: No. Because those to whom you're going to provide cover, they'll never dare sue any of these people who make trouble, because they'll be afraid to be targeted. So you will do a hole in the water and you will come in after two or three weeks here, either because the troika will push you or the banks will push you, bring in a new amendment. That's what's gonna happen! Because if you've decided that you've become mature and that you want to work capitalist, you're obviously not going to remove the self-government after the trouble is done. Because if you remove it, the amendment will not work and we will be here again three weeks later to unlock the evaluation. If you do not now remove the self-government and say 'Let's go, children, save the banks', what is going to happen in practice? So the SYRIZA MPs know now. In the next fuss - and it is like seeing it in front of me, Mr Minister - Panagiotis Lafazanis, Dimitris Hillis, Zoi Konstantopoulou will certainly be making a fuss in order to cause the institutions of order to implement Mr Lappas' amendment, which is now looking at me with a very sweet look and I wish him a 'chance'!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u664	You're stealing Mr. Voridis!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u665	Mr. Voridis will not be sure, I assure you. It won't be me either. If you're fighting for me being arrested by the police, Minister, I assure you I'm not going to go to any such trouble. I am not concerned with the amendment. I am sure, however, that in the next few weeks with your vote, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, Mr Lafazanis will be arrested, Mr. Tyrolis will be arrested, and Mrs Zoe Konstantopoulou will be arrested. Then I would very much like to see you when your former comrades will accuse you of shutting them down in prison, how exactly you will go to justify this to SYRIZA "the movements". I would like to see this very much, Mr Minister, and my fellow SYRIZA Members! So not only did you become the commemorator of the memorials, not only did you become bankers of the banks, you became more capitalists of the capitalists. Because here there's the other nice one. Head of the group "53", which resists the memorandum, is the Minister of Finance Tsakalotos, who beats the hammer in Wall Street, the homeland of capitalism, recommends amendments to protect the banks and in favour of the auctions, and then, leaving here, plays the '53 leader, because he is a communist! Awesome pine cones! So, with this fine amendment you have brought, if you break it, we will be here in two weeks, because the troika will still press you and if you insist, in two weeks, you will run to get the Army out of prison on bail! I want to see what's gonna happen. I'm very curious. However, do not weep after the SYRIZA MPs you vote for, because the Army, Constantopoulos and Lafazanis will have been arrested. You'll have them arrested with your vote so we'll all get together here and stay out of sight after the TVs and radios and do that you don't understand what's happened. I would just like to say a minute, Mr President, if you would like, and on behalf of my good friend, Kostas Lurado, on personal grounds, there was some time, ladies and gentlemen, a president of the Pan-Hellenic Pharmaceutical Association, the name of Costas Lurados. Now he didn't even get his vote and he's left the board of directors. That's his thing. What did this great trade unionist do, although an alleged neo-democrat? When I and Makis Voridis then said "no" to the troika, and you promised that you would get back half of us, he went out and said to Greek society: "I turn 11 000 pharmacies to SYRIZA polls." He also printed some posters and said: "Black to Hatzidakis" - wish him the son too! - 'and Adoni Georgiadis'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u666	Now it's Liberopoulos. He's doing the same thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u667	And he's obviously going to end up the same way. They don't know. Today, therefore, Mr Lorrados said to the Radio of SKAI and to Takis Hatzidis that it is immaterial. Listen, Mr. Kontonis, what the former president of the pharmacists revealed: 'Mr. Tsipras has promised me that he will never allow a change in the pharmacies' property regime, and that is what we will not accept.' It reminds me of what he said about Merkel: "Merkel will accept what we tell her and it will be noon." Do you remember them? Rightly and reasonably, colleagues of SYRIZA, will you say: "But, well, and Lourados believed Tsipras?" That's what you'll be right about. I can't mislead you. But come on, when Lurant believed him, he made SYRIZA's pharmacies and today they understood what to think about SYRIZA! So we're closing down, ladies and gentlemen, and a merry Christmas! Let me see now how you get out with Zoe Konstantopoulou, Dimitris Army and Panagiotis Lafazanis, who are going to close them in prison. Be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u668	We've already been out for a while!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u669	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mrs Panayota Kozobol, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u670	Some forget that elections took place in September 2015, and then the agreement had been signed. And that deal said a lot of things that the previous guy just said. But it's not really worth wondering, it's a story that repeats. We should not wonder why, when there is a particular fact, for example, that there is a fact in the outside companies that there are properties in the family of the Chief of Staff, or something else, suddenly there is an issue of Kammenos. Then, when this is solved, there's something else, and when there's a social dividend, there's the economy, where its indicators are going so well, there's something else. And, of course, the attempt to curb and misinformation is evident. I could say too much. Until just now newspapers were filed for an auction, for a house that "did to the hammer" and finally the news was that it was posted on the auction list. And we all know that the Code of Civil Procedure had changed and that at least seven months ago the auctions due to take place have been posted. And they may in between by opposition or other means of law to be cancelled or compromised and never to be made. But, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to talk anymore, because today we have a bill, which we have really wronged. We have a bill that makes such arrangements, and it must be seen as intersection, its first part at least, because it regulates issues that have to be legislated since 1950 and reflecting perceptions from the beginning of the 20th century. Ladies and gentlemen, the whole bill has a positive sign. The provisions of Part Two shall, for the majority of them, resolve requests from the legal world, facilitate the exercise of their functions and speed up the administration of justice. They contribute to the resolution of very serious problems, such as the possibility of attending the hearing of the administrative court by a statement, the possibility of presenting the pre-coupling and later. Procedural questions, namely, which are not essentially, can be resolved without rejecting the document. For example, the interventions in the repealed insurance measures are reintroduced. There is an increase in the organic positions of judges and a rationalisation of the organic positions of judges, where we had typists and various other specialities. All of this facilitates the administration of justice. Also, facilitating the process of major trials is another issue solved, extending the validity of the panel of peacekeepers that had achieved in the competition published in 2016 and much more. In the bill there are issues that resolve the issue of the administration of justice, citizens' requests, such as the representation of pro-zootic unions as politically accused to support the category in the case of animal abuse, the safeguarding of the expression of scientific opinion by specialist scientists, psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers. But, as I said at the beginning of my speech, the incision to this draft law is the first part of it. As far as the provisions of Part One are concerned, I should like to welcome the Ministry of Justice's initiative to set up a legislative committee and to thank all those who have worked with a view to drawing up this plan to amend the Anachronistic Article 69 of the Criminal Code and the relevant provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which were adopted in 1950 and have since remained unchanged, and which reflects perceptions of the beginnings of the previous century. What are the current provisions? If anyone has committed a serious crime and is judged by the judiciary during the proceedings, even if he is mentally or mentally disturbed, it is decided to issue an exculpatory message. If the person concerned is considered to be dangerous to public security, his or her incarceration is ordered, his placement in a suitable healing facility, i.e. in a psychiatric hospital. His or her reference and placement shall be of an indefinite duration. So he doesn't know when he's going out. It's just every three years that he's examined whether he can get out of the store. First, then, we have an vague duration of the measure. Secondly, the referral, their admission to a psychiatric hospital is made by a closed procedure by a council, not by a court decision. It is therefore the defendant of an open trial, a right that everyone else has, something that this procedure has been criticised for. Thirdly, the victim in this whole story has no possibility of intervening. Fourthly, the therapeutic purpose is completely forgotten by the criminal legislature. With this draft law, this anachronistic regime ceases. If the interrogator, the prosecutor and then the judiciary find that the person who is to their faces and who is accused, as a rule, of serious crimes - has a mental or mental disorder or if such a claim is made, there should be an expert opinion as close as possible to the arrest. Based on the outcome of the expert opinion, the interrogator and the judiciary may now order one of the measures provided for in Article 69, placement into a specialist psychiatric hospital or special department of general psychiatric hospital, placement in a general hospital department, extra-natal treatment, monitoring, which is usually the one for the crimes. The defendant stays in these areas, is watched by psychiatrists and therefore, if there is a more complete knowledge and judgment of psychiatrists about the problem of his condition, this is reflected in the expertise. The judiciary may not issue an exonerating order, but shall always refer to the court. That's very important. Previously there is an open trial, and before the trial there is a re-examination of the case, and it is considered whether the act was carried out, whether the perpetrator had the appropriate delusion to carry out this act, and whether on the basis of the first and second main expertise he has a mental or mental disorder. It is clear that legal provisions place the centre of gravity in the diagnosis with greater security of the problems of mentally ill offenders and in his treatment. The trial to be followed is an open procedure in which the defendant can put forward all his allegations, just as the victims and the relatives of the victims can put forward all their allegations, so that the court can reach some of the possible solutions, that is to say, to have the criminal treatment that anyone else has, since it is safely judged that it has no reduced charge. The second solution is to impose a reduced penalty, but with the exception of Article 70, which is added, since it is safely determined that it has a reduced charge. The third solution in the event that the perpetrator was fully irresponsible at the time the offence was committed, based on the first expert opinion, is the adoption of an acquittal decision and is now given the opportunity to place himself in a special store, as is the case today, in so far as it is considered likely to be other offences of similar gravity. We are clear about the difference between this legislation and the legislature in terms of man and his dignity. In any case, we are aware that the provisions which are being put in place are needed and necessary structures to support them. Even if these structures are not created, however, there has been a huge step, focusing on man and dignity, so that he can be hospitalized and punished, where he needs to be punished. These structures, too, can support these legislative measures. I believe, however, that the attempt to improve structures will not stop and that the measures can be implemented even more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u671	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Contonis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u672	Thank you, Mr President. Previously, in my position on the amendments, I failed to mention the amendment under general number 1423. It is a very critical amendment and I think it goes beyond any urgent measure, because it concerns the payment of intellectual rights to the beneficiaries. In these days when everyone will have fun, it is not possible that spiritual creators have not taken the money they are entitled to. I imagine Mr. Xydakis will talk about this later. I have also omitted in Amendment No 1404 to mention and to include that, in addition to the flooding of the Regional Unit of Itolokarnania, the flooding of the Regional Unit of Prevezis is also included. All the ministerial amendments, as the honourable ministers have made, are also accepted. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u673	Mr Stavros Tassos of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u674	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, capital and imperialism and their best dreams didn't think they'd find a better servant of his interests, so the prizes and the bracelets you can't get. Because, what else are you, when you've smashed wages, pensions and labour rights? You have exhausted their taxes and popular strata. You are effectively abolishing the right to strike. You're getting to the hammer of popular residence. You rinse American imperialism, calling the President of the United States "damagingly good", you have upgraded and agreed to the long-term use of the Souda base, but also of the other American bases, you do not hesitate to sell weapons to murderer states such as Saudi Arabia. I could for hours disguise in how many areas you have exceeded your teachers, New Democracy and PASOK, but time does not allow for it. In this context, and in particular the third memorandum, which was signed by both the New Democracy and the PASOK and other urban parties, you are abolishing the reduced VAT on the twenty-seven Aegean islands, where you have not abolished it so far, while on five islands - in Lesvos, Chios, Samos, Kos and Lero - you have been maintaining it for about six months, connecting it to the refugee. So what do you say to the inhabitants of these islands? That if you want to maintain the reduced VAT, look at keeping hell in Moria and in other hotspots, a hell for which you are also co-responsible, you have contributed to its creation, after you are participating in NATO and in the European Union, to these imperialist organisations that, through their interventions for oil, gas and their transport routes, and the geostrategic advantage, have destroyed these countries, from which refugees and immigrants are leaving. We, as you know, make no distinction between refugees and migrants, because those, the refugees, are persecuting them from your imperialist war to escape their death and your so-called imperialist peace to escape impoverishment, exploitation and poverty. So these people are stacked in these concentration centres, in these hellholes, and you tell the inhabitants of the islands, who, of course, have a problem with their presence, because tensions are created. Yesterday, again, in Moria, the bad mess was done. Because when five and a half are stacked, six thousand people in an area that can at the lower level of living serve two thousand people, you understand what is happening. So we're talking about a hell that you're calling on the islands to accept in order to maintain their reduced VAT. Of course, this is also the mistake that has been made since the beginning and by some mayors, who have linked the maintenance of reduced VAT on refugees and now have these results. As is well known, the reduced VAT was levied after many matches - and the JRC took the lead in these struggles - and it was a small counterweight to the increased cost of transport and production on the islands. It therefore has nothing to do with either the refugee or the natural disasters, which it has tried to combine. What do you now say to the inhabitants of the islands, which you abolish from 1 January 2018? You say, look at this, we'll give you the transport equivalent. What does that mean? The VAT you get from the islanders will give it to the shipowners. So you fully serve the logic of indirect taxes, which is to take from many, workers and people's layers and give them to the capital and its representatives, shipowners, bankers, industrialists, mechanics and so on. What do you think, too? You say, look at you, we'll give you an extraordinary one, social counterbalance. And that's what you clean up! I mean, there's someone here who can say a lot about it, Argi. But unfortunately, I don't think you've left any political gum left. Who lost the political gum so you could find it? But you do reason without the hotel owner. Because the indignation of workers and people's populations throughout the country, but especially in the islands - and I know it firsthand - has reached its upper limits, and it is, of course, in line with the upper limits of mockery, hypocrisy and cynicism of your own policy. It won't be long before they take you with the stones for your service policy. With regard to the amendment to criminalise the action against auctions, our disagreement is a profound policy and concerns the terror and intimidation you are trying to resist those who resist this policy. That is why we call for you to take this amendment back, along with all the other anti-grassroots amendments and laws and policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u675	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Xydakis has the floor to present his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u676	Thank you very much, Mr President. This is the amendment under general number 1423 and a special item 141 presented by the Minister a moment ago. It concerns, in short, the release of any copyright money intended for distribution to beneficiary authors, collective management organisations or independent management entities. In fact, it concerns a large company that had almost a monopoly position on the Greek copyright market, GDPI, which is in a disastrous economic situation. Thousands of artists have died from their mismanagement, rather fraudulent management. It is currently with established negative funds of at least 40 million, which have been collected and disappeared. Approximately 30 million are indicted by the Administrative Appeals Office for fraudulent use fourteen years ago. Wholesale, that is, according to the current investigation, there are missing funds, due to creators, many dozens of millions plus the debts to third parties, to the State, to banks, to suppliers. It may exceed 80 million of calculated up to now. Research continues. Reality is even more resentful for the creators, who have alone - it is an asset, in fact, the intellectual right - the intellectual right, for the rich, of those who do not make living appearances. This company, while it has many related profitable and wealthy companies, has an asset itself, a building, which the creditor is moving to commit. Thus, the creators in depth will have received nothing, except they will be loaded with voids and debts. With this amendment, we call for the release of what money is available in frozen accounts, which are intended exclusively for distribution, to serve the property right and the only income earned by artists who have already had a very lowly distributed, unlike any given of the past decades, by a fraudulent company. At least, within this Christmas to get something of the money collected and to have a real head start, I speak frankly, against the public which it also demands from the banks. Because, in fact, this money is theirs. He's been collecting them on their behalf and wiped them out. That's the situation. I call for all colleagues and opposition parties to understand. That is the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u677	My colleague, Mr Nikolaos Paradiseopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u678	Ladies and gentlemen, I will say a few words about the amendment at first, and the rest of the year I will devote it to the core of the basic legislation, which I believe is important. First of all, I shall not speak politically or economically, because the Minister and other government officials have already done so, much more than I do. But I would like to say a few words about the regulation, because I have heard most of the debate, except at a time when I have missed, and I understand that many of the Members think that some acts relating to the conduct of auctions are being criminalised here. It's not like that. All these actions, which we are talking about: the pursuit of a threat, the exercise of violence and the mere disruption of the process of conducting an auction, or the mere stay without legal reason in the place where it is conducted, of a person, all of them are already criminalised. And Article 333 punishes the threat and Article 334, which concerns the disruption of home peace, which is, of course, extended to service areas, all of which are already criminalising all these acts that we are discussing. What's the difference? Differences are two. Instead of criminalising these acts with the first paragraph, they are criminalised with the third. And what does that mean, practically? Two things: a little higher than the threatened penalty framework, but as I understand negligiblely higher, because anyway, in the field of the crime it is and I see that it does not concern it anyway. Secondly, the fact that this disruption in the conduct of an operation and the way in which an area is used is now being punished on its own initiative rather than by imprisonment. Is that right or not? First of all, I would like to say that I see no problem in regulating rights, namely that the legislator is free to make any new arrangements from an institutional point of view, provided that what he expects does not conflict with the Constitution or with international conditions. And that, of course, is guaranteed here. There's nothing like that. But does insulting or authorizing fit here? I believe the second one. And I believe the second reason for this is that the rule in our criminal law is the own-initiative prosecution. Exceptionally, some crimes, which are completely personalized and completely personal, are completely private if you want, are punished by imprisonment. Why? Because if you swear a man and don't bother, okay, what would the third D.A. intervene? Or if someone enters someone else’s house and sits a little while and he does not end up inconvenience, despite the fact that he entered without the attacker asking him, if the owner is not bothered, it is okay that the prosecutor should not intervene on his own initiative. But to the large majority, the majority of the crimes, of course, the prosecutor intervenes on his own initiative. Here the conduct of the auctions is a matter between two private individuals, or is it a matter of interest to so many people, which even if you want to see the mobilisations show that this is a matter of public interest or of interest in general, and the functioning of the economy and social function? Apparently the second one. And I believe that the own-initiative prosecution, because that's the only change that's going on, as I told you, we've been criminalized, it's a match. I'm done with the amendment. I'm going through the law. Of course I don't have time and I always want to respect my limit. I should like to say to you that I believe that it is very important, historical, that the reform contained in the first articles, the first and second ones, concerning in particular the treatment of people who have been found unreasonable because of a mental illness. I understand that there are many misunderstandings here and I will try to tell you the basics. The basic thing is that since 1950, not only our country with the Criminal Code, but the world legal order, with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention, want the detention of people, their incarceration in one place, to be allowed only in two cases. One is: they committed crime, they are punished and put in jail. The other is: they didn't commit crime, but because they have a mental condition that is dangerous, to the extent that their mental illness lasts, yes being detained. Only these two conditions. What I heard here, "You know, he may no longer be ill, but he is dangerous, detained", he has no place in the world legal order. The legal order does not consider the risk of detention to be a risk. Alas. The risk assesses it only in terms of the size of the penalty. But to put a man in jail, he wants to have committed a crime. Is he committing a crime that has a mental condition? It doesn't. He's doing an injustice, not a crime, because he has to have guilt. He's not guilty. So here we are talking about those who have not been found guilty and are simply ill. What does our new legislation say? Yes, he can be held ill, since first, his condition is such that it can lead to aggression or anything, but only if his condition is carefully diagnosed. That is why we have new conditions and double expertise. Secondly, we must have continuous monitoring of the state of health in order to ensure that he is kept, precisely because his condition is prolonged, because otherwise he should not be kept. Otherwise, the legislation, quite rightly, sets the limit of proportionality. It says that the detention of a man, who has a mental condition, cannot last longer than the detention of a man, who has acted treacherously and with a full of mental health. That is why proportionality also covers these cases. Mr Vorides has often referred to the distinction between a penalty on the one hand and a security or administrative sanction on the other. I must say that for many years, many decades, the criminal theory has exceeded the problem of label fraud. In other words, rename a measure, say incarceration, give it another name, such as a security measure or a criminal measure, and stop treating it as a punishment. Everyone accepts that all measures, which are valid, which are heavy, are painful in terms of human rights, are of fundamental importance. The principle of proportionality also applies to them. The Greek Marios Ice has judged it in 2010 by decision 58, in which it accepts that the principle of proportionality commits both penalties and insurance measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u679	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed that the vote will take place at 21.00 a.m. So, if we can, we can respect time. Mr Paradoxopoulos spoke for seven minutes both of the amendment and of the bill. And I think we haven't lost that speech. If it's possible to reach agreement. Mr. Christos Mandas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u680	Ladies and gentlemen, with the change of Rule 69, we are making a break in the care of people suffering from mental illness, extremely important. In fact, I agree with my previous colleague, it is a history of psychiatric things in our country and with wider implications, I would say. Unfortunately, the day has brought it to us not to talk in depth about this very important part we are trying to do. What's next day? Because, as a result of my experience, I have to say a few things about the next day. The next day, then, is now moving away from seeing the mentally ill and especially the one who, because of his mental illness, has committed a criminal offence - perhaps even serious many times - is leaving the perspective of the dangerous criminal and goes to the perspective of the man suffering from a mental illness and has done so. Therefore, the entire system is shifted according to the therapeutic criterion. This is extremely crucial for the lives of these people who may think they are few, but in democracy what matters - among others - is especially to these vulnerable people, those people who have been in this position, to take care in a different way of how to deal with their problems. So the dangerous psychopath with this legislation becomes the man in need of treatment. All devices shall be adapted precisely to this axis. It's a long part of this because - you know - these people were actually abandoned in detention. Many in here know this from their social experience and professional experience. They were abandoned in detention from their families, from their social around and in situations that in some phases were really embarrassing about our country's culture, in general. I therefore think that this will release this possibility of therapeutic intervention and indeed there is the challenge of the material infrastructure and all the procedures to be carried out so that they can be carried out. Are we in such a direction? I think we're in a direction like this. With what we have done to mental health all this time - and we continue to do - by setting up sections of general hospitals in the region so that we limit the influx of patients to large special mental hospitals, with a clear orientation that we have been treating the community, with the changes that we will bring in the area of involuntary hospitals very soon, I think we are making a great historical shift in dealing with mentally ill, and that is a very important step. I personally want to congratulate all the scientific group involved in getting this legislative initiative out which I think is extremely important and critical. I have tabled two amendments. I do not want to take time on this because I want to say two words about the debate that has taken place today. One is the Eugenius Therapy. The explanatory statement is clear. We give a breath and a chance to this institution, which is 99% owned by the university, to be able to operate on the basis of the public interest in general. Other steps will be taken, but this is essential to enable it to function and not to have the conditions of a private institution. The second concerns the amendment of Article 93 of L.4389/2016, which is essentially interpretative. It is about the residence tax, that is to say, not making double taxation. It is clear that a tax is levied after the accommodation has been established by means of a special document, proof of the collection of a residence tax. This is necessary in order to operate all the framework we have in this regard. It is a simple extension of the legislation that exists, a spatial extension to the substance. No one should notice and see the speeches, especially what we call the 'neutral' wing of the New Democracy, at all levels. I don't want to say what they said about the main bill, that's what we'll talk about at another time. So he has gathered a crescendo of hypocrisy, saying "you will kneel here", "you will lick where you spit" and so forth, at the same time as they send a message - they know where - that "we are willing to do everything and with the greatest possible efficiency, we do not play." And there are some others who are trying to find possible roles in this process. I want to be clear. This is a simple extension - I say again - of the legislation and in an area which is necessarily now being used to carry out electronic auctions in perfect terms and at the same time on the part of all the Ministers and the Minister present. It has become quite clear that we are not going to play with the people's residence, as is defined by common sense, not just by legislation. We know very well what's going on. In addition, we are monitoring very systematically what is going on in each auction, and I therefore think we are also open - the Minister said so - whatever additional energy is needed, to do it and to launch it. But it's not in this crescendo, that they thought they found a priest to bury five to six, to retreat. We are not going to do behind our constant effort to defend the people's residence whatever they say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u681	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Thanasis Pafilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u682	A half an hour ago, and the police who were with him were the Secretary General of our party, Dimitris Koutsoubas, from the MATs outside the House. I imagine tents have been pulled. The issue is not that we are denounced and that it is unacceptable and responsibility must be sought, because there must be no officers and others who do not know the Secretary of the JRC. This is the first, the subject of the complaint. The second is the signal you've given in recent times to them regardless of anything else. What does the government give the signal? There is a history law, which has been passed by all governments, whatever it was up to now. Anti-French policy, its intensity is always accompanied by authoritarianism, terrorism and provocatives. And we don't see each other at random. Why? Because the escalation of the attack on the people is causing an escalation of the reactions and it is very natural. There's no more gun. So with what we have been living in recent times, it is no coincidence that these autocracy phenomena have been intensified. The other one gets fired, they don't pay him, they owe him, and the police take him home. But what is it? A criminal? Trade unions, etc. This has happened too. Dismiss a student because he was talking to the Cynites, who were sharing out notices. And then they go to pick them up. Such examples were given by Yannis Delis in his recommendation. More frequent display of MATs. They show that, because you are preparing the ground and for worse in the next period - and now let the SYRIZA Success story be left, because you know very well what is coming, the implementation of what you have voted on and which others have voted on, as well as the fourth assessment - that is why authoritarianism is intensified. As far as the bill is concerned, I should first of all like to give an answer. We talked about the bill, as did our rapporteur. What we have set out is that any positive arrangements exist, in which we agree or have observations, in the air, in that there is no financial support for all that needs to be done. So don't tell us we didn't talk. So we say that the amendments which come here'scorpions' were supposed, as Nikos Karathanasopoulos specifically analysed, to be incomplete at all. It is on a 'line'. What's the line? What interests do they serve? Here's the answer. And these are not the people's interests, but they are the interests of capital. Let's see them in letters. First theme: Pharmacy liberation. Someone who's not a pharmacist will be able to open. Who's he serving? Will workers and workers or other self-employed be running tomorrow to open pharmacies? That's a demand, just to tell you, the pharmaceuticals. I'll tell you a personal experience. Many years ago I happened to have a conversation with a top executive I met in Brussels, who I didn't even know, who told me that "Why should I be paying for both the importer and for the importer and for this and not open a chain and put a pharmacist with seven or eight hundred, so all the profit to come to me?" That is what is demanded and not of the people. Secondly, the abolition of reduced VAT. Stavros Tasos said it before. Who's benefiting? You're collecting money, aren't you? Indirect taxes isn't VAT? Not everyone denounced him, at least those who once had a basic perception of the people? Indirect taxes are the worst. Because another 18% on one who has 10,000 or 20,000 or 50,000 or 100,000 a month and another on one who gets five hundred. Does he not serve certain interests? You are now going to work on them, beyond what you have said. I would also like to say about the financing of the shipowners. Poverty cursed shipowners! First in the world. Damn poverty. Two-and-a-half-three thousand ships in recent years and within the crisis. You're giving it there. So who's he serving? Not the people, though. Third matter. This arrangement for workers paid at the cost of proof of contributions who serves? You say, 'Everyone has to be insured'. That's right. Everybody get locked up. They, too. What are you doing? 26.9% they'll pay for it. What will employers pay? Nothing. Zero. You reduce their wages and, as Nikos Karathanasopoulos quite rightly said, you give them "significant" that "don't be a sucker" to the others. "Take such relationships, you will not pay any insurance contributions." It is well known that the capital as a whole and the European Union, and so on. Requires continuously that non-wage costs, insurance rates, etc. be reduced. Carabinato who serves. Fourth theme: Delete additional taxes from businesses. I don't have to explain it. The additional taxes shall be deleted from where? From the worker? Oh, no. Business. And another gift that goes that way. We're coming to the auctions now. I'll tell you something. We're not naive. Is it or isn't it? Let's say it's not. The Minister made an effort in the morning to tell us that this is nothing, that it is a regulation that helps electronic auctions and employees, etc. And in a legal way, analysed by Giokas and made him 'leaf and wing' - and others - he tried to convince us that nothing is running. So why does it say here that they are 'prohibited on grounds of overriding financial and public interest'? "He wants to hide and doesn't leave her," he says. That's what you did here. You say them openly: ‘Supporting the national economy through the absolute execution of the auctions as a means of strengthening the liquidity of the financial system and avoiding the need for a new recapitalisation of banks and ensuring the legality, etc.’. If it was the second one, what do you want the first one? Why? If they were only to protect themselves, why did you put it? You can answer us later. Well, let's see. So let's leave all this. What kind of dilemma do you put here? You put it elsewhere, at least that's what they write. Recapitalisation or auctions. Don't you put that dilemma on? Recapitalisation or auctions. In other words, the amendment is either passed or the government falls. Why? Since this measure is so soft, it has nothing to do with the protection of employees. So I'm saying we're not naive. Who's demanding this? Say it. Is it a prerequisite, yes or no? Tell us 'is'. Isn't that right? Yes, sir. So who's he serving? Here, clean things and straight things, go out and say it. Who's serving? Does it not serve the banks and the funds? What are you telling us? Are you telling us that the first residence is being protected and you are even giving vows? Who are protected from the first residence? Those who entered the regulation of the "Katelis" are protected until the end of 2018. Yes or no? The others, where are tens of thousands? No one is protected from anywhere. Is it protected by the gentlemen's agreement? The President of the Banking Union has made it clear, despite what you and your promises say. So what do you want with this law to do? So I don't start saying too much. What's the point? The point is to give a signal of terrorism, not to resist the world, that it will go to prison, that it will be persecuted, and so on. You want to scare them, that is, especially those who resist, the popular movement. What for? To make the auctions in the villas, etc.Huh? But are you working on us? Take a list and say: 'Be sure to who they are'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u683	There's a list.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u684	Don't be in a hurry. Now, on the 3rd of January when the auctions are, you'll see who they are and how many have been done so far. Let me say one more thing. For public debt, tax, etc., is the first residence protected? Are there auctions or not? You'll tell me there was this before. Yeah, but before the other guy took 2,000 euros and could pay a loan of 500 euros and 700 euros, and now he's getting 700 euros. So, here it is clear. They don't need toys. You want to make it easier for them to do too quickly and with fewer resistance to auctions, which will be generalised. But, well, suckers are the moneys they buy, not just the red ones, but they're asking for other housing loans now? Why are they doing it? Are they doing this for their mother's soul? Do they do it to wipe out the workers or are they the "dollars", as you said, so that they can quickly get what they can? You're making a mistake with all this. The wood has two ends. When you take off the whip, it's a bit too much if the other one catches it. And because the organized movement, trade unions, federations, etc. comes in. - because that's where it's directed, in the organized people's movement, you're not afraid of activists - your law will go to the candlesticks. And I tell you straight away: Yes, we invite them to subdue and not to be afraid. Also, the article that says about disturbing home peace, etc. - to tell you everything here - is what's being arrested by trade unions, unions, symbolic occupations or whatever else, when they're arrested. Generally speaking, however, because it is also a question of the correlation of powers, it does not apply for so many years. Because, if applied, half of Greece participating in the mobilisations would be in prison. Is it like this or not? That's right. So we warn you that it will not go into practice. The "killers" and the bankers and all the others who rub their nails and their knives, who support you, should know that they will not go through these things easily and that the JRC will react and be in the front line. In the context of the amendment, therefore, it is also the amendment to fund and control the parties, as you say. Let us start with the second one, with 'Greeko' and all that. Are the parties controlled? They're checked, as far as we know, everything. The JRC is thoroughly audited. Ten days they've been sitting in the office. They control everything. Any evidence they ask is given, except one. I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u685	The coupons.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u686	Not the coupons. The names. Now I'll see you here. It's wicked. And look now. We're not licking our finger. Some people may not know what's going on. It says that we want VDU, Police ID, coronary paper - the coronary is ironic - name, etc. for coupons over 15 euros. At the same time, however, they download anonymous funding from 150,000 to 75,000 euros. So the 1 euro coupon, you want it name-calculated. What are we doing? What are the tricks? They're analyzed. In fact, which parties are going to strangle mostly? Those who oppose the system itself. Because the political arguments will be taken by finishing, I will read to you what the Data Protection Authority says - which you swear on them - a personal character: "The constitutional freedom to develop the individual's personality includes the freedom to participate or support political parties, because freedom to develop his or her personality involves the freedom to participate in the economic, social and political life of the country. The above individual, social rights - to which you are sworn and we are not supposed to defend them with courage - are 'associated with the secrecy of the vote'. As a consequence, the posting on the Internet of requested natural persons constitutes a serious restriction on all of the above personal, social rights, the insult of which is excessive and is not justified by the purpose of the law.’ So why did Law 3023/2002 and Law 4034/2014 become? First of all, we have to say who brought him, not who voted for him. It was New Democracy and the other parties supported it and PASOK and LAOS, and I don't remember if it was DMAR. Who brought him? The ‘Greeko’. What is "Greco"? And you're moving us here! Who's talking about corruption? Germany and Siemens? What can we do with them? Who's talking about corruption? Britain, where the Queen makes scams? To the farms who? Denmark with the Minister for Rural Economy, who was also a Commissioner, and who was at the end annoyed? Who's talking about corruption? The anti-corruptions? And you're telling us about "Greco" and you're moving us? What is "Greco"? What legalization does it have? Because the Council of Europe did it? And in the end, is it compulsory for you to apply it? No, it's not. Why, then, do you apply it? Why did you accept it as a prerequisite? There is the European Union behind it. What's the aim? To strangle economically - I say again - and prevent political parties from acting. Which parties? Do you have the impression that urban parties will be affected by this? Do you have the impression that the coupons of one euro, two euros, five, fifty euros - to that extent we are making - bring corruption? Is that it? The millions are given with the coupons? Do they carry a truck or stop the companies? First they legalise the American system, the anti-corruption ones! You remember the lists of which companies support X or Clinton or Trump today. That's a matter. In other words, it legalises interconnection and complexity. [[At this point, the Third Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. CHRISTOPOULOUou, takes over the President's seat.]] The second and most important is the fresco of the whole world. You know, to tell you, we would like to be honest - and we have said so many times - all those who strengthen the JRC to say so to break terrorism and everything. Those who want to strengthen it, we publish it to the Risospasti. No other party publishes. Every day the Rizzospasti has offers. But, where do we live, in what climate? Isn't there terrorism inside the factory? They're gonna skate the whole world? And not everyone is communists and not some people vote for it. But they appreciate his role. We're never going to do that. We are not going to bow down either to GREECO or to anyone. And the people will be with us. And because, you say things, I will read to you "AYI" when it was a left-wing newspaper, not to say the song that KNE says now. ‘As a member of the General Council of the SAR under the pretext of holding an illegal fund.’ ‘Search against members of the ESA in Preveza for an illegal fund-raiser’. ‘Sightless arrests of officials and members of the SAR’. ‘Police police forces in Chios’. 'Heraklion: seventeen citizens are referred, again for fundraising, 'and new deportations'. In Statis, "three women's arrests because at the meat shop", they said, "they made a fund-raiser in favour of the exiles". How much can I tell you? And there are people standing on the wall because they were strengthening the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u687	And this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u688	Mr. Palphie, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u689	I'm sorry, Madam President, but I missed time. So you should know that this doesn't pass and they won't pass. So what did the President of Parliament say about the law? "There is a clear trend within this bill for Americanisation, for a lobby system that will be created around the parties for their direct service of interests, which is far from being transparent and controlled, as necessary. In other words, for AE parties and nominating the coups, our disagreement is very clear." And he had voted 'in 2014'. Mr. Contonis, if I don't read it, he has it himself. It's about the same thing. Mrs Gerovas, who was also rapporteur, says: "The relationships between economic interests and parties are legal. Some will be given to the table, some underneath. A fresco of friends and members, who contribute from their misery, has been attempted to assist the party expressing their political views. We disagree with that, that and that. That's what you said. What changed from the law? Nothing. Well, you know, we're not back. Law-abiding scavengers to say who gives what and where he gives, we're not going to be. You who put your signature will also apologise tomorrow for all of this, even to your own voters, who are staying and holding some perceptions, and of course there are many of them. Don't have the illusion that the JRC will hit it. We've been closing for a hundred years and we've been illegal. We've learned both in good and in bad, both in the wave and in the shade, and in the storm and we beat her. That's how we're gonna beat her now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u690	The Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u691	Ladies and gentlemen, I feel today that I am speaking to those who are not listening sometimes, and I sincerely regret this. So let's make things clear. As regards paragraph 3 of the contested amendment, we all accept that it is an extension to the private area, because it was not provided for under the 1950 Code because there were no electronic auctions, internet, etc.Huh? Are we going to accept it or are we not going to accept it? Nothing else does paragraph 3. He said Mr. Paphis earlier that he was extending his order to the threat. But I said so in the morning. I didn't say anything to mislead you. The threat is expanding. And I said we're looking into it. By the end of the meeting we will see whether this part can be included in paragraph 3. Do we object to paragraph 3? Because what the government does, and I tell you, Mr Pafile, that you are a man of good faith, is that we say that the protection that a notary will have in his office will also have. That's all paragraph 3 says. He doesn't say anything else. I do not think there can be any objection to that. In what you tell me about the threat, we do indeed have the self-determination here. We have said that we are considering this because there has been the opinion from the outset that this is part of paragraph 3 for the smooth conduct of the auction. Furthermore, paragraph 1 does not contain glaukas in Athens, because the extremist for civil servants is in our criminal code. We therefore say that it should also apply to notaries who perform a public function. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, this: is it ever possible for us Members to accept that a person who is a designated body and who is doing his job as a notary to be fully legitimate and within the institutional frameworks defined by the state, to be prejudiced, is in a situation beyond logic? Can this thing be tolerated by Parliament, by the whole of the Members? That is why the notaries had declared abstention and said that 'if there is no legislative framework for protection, we are not prepared to go there and conduct auctions'. You know, furthermore, that some circles wanted the auctions to leave the hands of the notaries. You know that. I mean, we should put the carpet on them. And there is no such thing as the procedural guarantees made in the Code of Civil Procedure, and there are other things we can do here. I would therefore like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that in essence no change occurs with this amendment, in addition to the threat, which automatically becomes an offence in this particular case. I told you that we are looking into this and we will run out of any margin of consultation. But it is now combined, since this morning, as many speeches as have been made by the government, the protection of notaries and, of course, the stability of the financial system, because both are referred to in the explanatory statement, but you are only saying the first thing about...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u692	The first thing he wants?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u693	Mr. Paphie, you said so. Others didn't say so. Both are of the same value. And the first is important, Mr. Paphie. I'll tell you why.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u694	Tell us!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u695	But nobody said it wasn't. Once we write this in the explanatory statement, we do not hide anything because if the banking system is not supported, you know very well that the recapitalisation of the banks will affect the employees, the pensioners, whom the previous governments have put to pay so many millions. So we are not prepared - and I say it to you, I tell everyone - to get into this logic, again and again, the recapitalisation of the banks, which ordinary suspects will pay. That is why we are trying to protect ourselves by blocking this process, and that is why we are referring to it. What's the problem? Nowhere! [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would like to return to my original thought - Madam President, give me some time - to link this provision to the first place of residence. I said it ten times today. The first residence is completely protected - and I tell everyone - by the law Stathakis. Who are not protected in the first place? Those who have received wonderful loans, over 280,000 euros, and also those who have not been minded to go to justice. Because the Statakis law says that to protect you, there must be a court judgment that you really can't handle the loan. And you know, not dozens, not hundreds, thousands of decisions have been issued by the country's peace-keeping tribunals for all those citizens who cannot cope with the burdens they had made before the crisis. That's the point. If, then, there is a first home, which the borrower - why are we talking about it - has not brought before justice, while it has been possible, then it is the law, it is the government's fault? The government has given him the possibility of this Step! I appeal to all citizens who have a problem: until 31 December 2018 they have the possibility of appealing, first with the provisional order and final with the adoption of a decision. In fact, this protection does not stop on 31 December 2018. For those who have received protection, it extends to the Penalty, I can say, until this situation ends. Why don't you say that? Why does that not be said and is the government accused of this grand effort to protect the first home? Now come to reality and to events. You know, ladies and gentlemen, let us know, because we have set up a observatory, and we are watching, Mr Paffei, not only the auctions that have been auctioned, but also the ones you said in January. We are watching them all, no first home borrower, who is involved in this protection procedure, has been auctioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u696	Balls.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u697	What do you say, Mr. Katasotis? What are you talking about? [[Noise - protests from the JRC wing]] Mr. Paphie, I'm addressing you. Do you accept what he says?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u698	Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u699	Okay, there's no more reason in the conversation. Tell me one. I tell you that there is no first residence, because this is where it is clear. Any borrower who has joined the Stathakis law has full protection. Look, here you're telling us: Is he 100%? No, it's not - we told you - because some of them have first residences for loans exceeding EUR 280,000. Some have been judged by the court - relatively few in relation to those who have complained - that they do not need protection because their income exceeds the dose proposed by the bank. So let's just stand here for a minute. That's the reality. I am telling you again, it has previously contributed to the debate by a colleague from the New Democracy. Some newspapers wrote for first residence at Volos. Has this borrower appealed before the justice that the law gives him? Because if he had and his request had been accepted, he would not have been in this unpleasant position. Or if he had appealed and his request was rejected, then he will have to adapt to the judgment. But I'm overdoing this. I am therefore appealing to all Greek citizens who have problems with first residence and cannot serve their loans. They have a whole year before them to address justice, to consider the situation of judges and to exclude them. There are, ladies and gentlemen, courts which have also made cuts in loans.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u700	Everything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u701	Almost everything. Why don't you say that? Why doesn't anyone say that to the Greek people and you share fear and terror that "here was what will happen"? Don't you know what might happen? That's the reality. That is why no such borrower is in protest. Because they've all been protected. Who else are they? Look, Wednesday, there were some auctions in the Peace Court. Can you tell me an auction involving a first home borrower? Not one. It was all private. Who were those who gathered out? The JRC I know it wasn't, as far as I'm concerned. The rest of whom were they protecting? Let's find out. There was no first home auction. All auctions were among individuals, private differences, and yet from outside were some and shouted: 'No house in the hands of a banker'. Is this about misinformation? Are we dealing with a systematic misinformation that something is going on while nothing is going on? Ladies and gentlemen, what I am telling you yesterday, not a month ago, was done on Wednesday. Can someone tell me otherwise? None, ladies and gentlemen. All the auctions were checked. All auctions concerned private debts, whether they were held at the Peace Court or on an electronic basis. The other one, I told you this morning. He was auctioning real estate on an electronic basis with a loan of 1,450,000 Swiss francs and under the office of the notary there were the guys who said that no auction would take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u702	We have nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u703	You don't really have one. But I told you. So I say to you, if you find people's residence, a first home borrower who has been able to join the law and yet his real estate is being put into a public forced auction, whether natural or electronic, here we are the government. What he promised is a permanent basis and a constant value.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u704	Minister, soon you'll talk again to close. Are you doing the closure now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u705	If I close, I'll do five minutes, not more. Ladies and gentlemen, we are accused of being tolerated and undermining violence. And now that a provision is coming here that wants to protect this particular sector, everyone is saying 'we are against violence, but we are not going to vote on this here' for reasons that they start to number. Look, either we're against violence and we're taking action or we're not. For other things, political protests and other things, violence and violence against a man who is alone at that time. It's a manhood too, except for the others. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not now speak of the bill, just so that I do not blame it more than has been wronged. I think, however, that the political conclusion that comes out of this debate is that the New Democracy is now seeking a long way, since the government has not been shaken so long by what they have said will shake it down and be shaken by the auctions. And while she distances herself from wrongdoing, on the other hand, not much or much, she puts all her money into illegitimate situations, can she be able to earn something? So I say to you that, as you have failed in your rhetoric, the second assessment will not be closed, and as you have failed in your rhetoric that the third assessment will include budgetary measures, which will ultimately not include you, so you will be defeated here. And you will be defeated because there is no real basis. Movements are created when there is a real basis. Here when all the people of the people, the poor people who have been in the cave of the crisis, have already been protected or can even now - as I said - address justice and have complete protection of their residence, there is no real basis for creating a movement. The usual suspects may do the usual episodes but mobilisation of masses cannot be done, because the first residence, the people's residence is protected by the law and the Government of the Left.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u706	Mr. Chogas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u707	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of this draft law lies in the fact that one might claim that the cultural and social programmes of our society are changing. It changes the way of social coexistence because the logic of dealing with the mentally ill or mentally disturbed criminal offences is changed, in which rights are now recognised that enforce compliance with the revised institutional framework. In other words, it is obvious that a change is being attempted, for example, by showing concepts of dignity, autonomy and respect for the mentally ill as subjective law. The more than decades of change in both the international and the European legal system, which changed the provisions of an antiquated model of criminal behaviour to the perpetrators of these crimes, obliges the Greek legal order and the treatment of persons exempted from the penalty due to mental or mental disorder, to be made centrally responsible for their mental health and improve their treatment, with a view to their treatment and not to the application of obsolete methods of medical and social prejudice, in which case the amendment of the existing legal framework was obviously necessary. Thus, the first part of the bill under discussion comes to put an end to long-term and obsolete functional incarceration and isolation in closed groups of those facing mental and mental disorders, ensuring in the best possible way modern treatment measures for wrongdoing mental patients, as well as guaranteeing the occurrence of the intended therapeutic effect. This draft law amends the existing institutional framework for those facing mental or mental disturbances, in particular Articles 38-41 and 69 and 70 of the Criminal Code and redefines the terms and conditions and the procedure for enforcing treatment measures for those who are exempted from the penalty due to mental or mental disorder. The measures imposed on wrongdoing mental patients are intended to be of an exceptional therapeutic nature, while at the same time ensuring the protection of the fundamental property of the offenders, and it is particularly important to provide for the conditions for the enforcement of the measure to be taken following an expert opinion, carried out immediately after the arrest, as well as with another expert as close as possible to the court. In this direction, the maximum duration of the therapeutic measure is regulated and the possibility of lifting or replacing the measure imposed at the request of the treated person is provided by introducing the maximum duration of the therapeutic measure, while reinnovating the accused right of appeal both against the decision imposing the treatment measure, but also against the one ordering its extension. Chapter 3 sets out the basic principles governing the implementation of treatment measures and defines the units of implementation of those measures. It is also clear that the way and procedure for the introduction of the healed person into a special or common psychiatric department of public psychiatric or general hospital, as well as the process of attending it at regular intervals in the above healing and control units by the Citizens' Prosecutor, the Special Committee for the Protection of Persons’ Rights with Psychiatric Disorders, the Body of Health and Welfare Inspectors, is clearly defined. In the second part of the bill, the process of issuing a consensual divorce has been reversed so far and new arrangements are laid down in order to decongested political courts and speed up procedures for resolving the marriage. The procedures are modernised and it is defined that marriage can be resolved by agreement between the spouses, which is confirmed by the drafting of a relevant notarial instrument, by changing the applicable legal stereotypes. Article 686 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended, providing that additional intervention and redress may also be given orally in the proceedings for interim measures in the Single Court of First Instance or the Peace Court. Article 20 of Law 4039/2012 is supplemented and allows any pro-zootic association, with local or national interest, regardless of whether it has been damaged or not, to be present as a civil treatment in support of the category alone. Particularly important are the changes introduced to the Code of Administrative Procedure, resolving years of requests and social disputes, making it clear that the applicant himself may bring a second action and bring an appeal. Plenipotentiary lawyers of the parties shall be allowed to attend by a declaration before the Council of State, both in the case of cancellation and in the case of a substance, to be lodged by the lawyer proxy or in the event of a joint declaration by the parties not later than that of the Court. Issues facilitating the exercise of the profession and, at the same time, protecting the citizen in their case are resolved. Thus, in order not to reject cases of failure to provide a pre-paid pre-paid note, the omission of the obligation to pay the lawyer's representations in the debate of any kind of legal aid or means will be considered to be a formal omission, which may be covered after the discussion and before the decision is adopted, after the relevant notice by the court of attorneys, thus resolving chronic nightmares of the Legal Body. From 1-1-2018, the special criminal department operating at the Athens Court of Appeal is abolished to dismantle the volume of criminal cases and accelerate the process and increase the number of organic positions of judges. Ladies and gentlemen, the emergence and autonomy of individual self-determination certainly suggests the perception of the quality of the Republic of a society and its relevance to how its institutions approach the problems of vulnerable social groups, such as mental and mental patients - perpetrators of criminal acts. They are issues for which the SYRIZA Government once again demonstrates its social sensitivity and interest in vulnerable and weak groups, legislating to protect it from outdated perceptions and practices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u708	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Fotini Vakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u709	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it was a great deal of time today. However, you will also allow me to begin with some excellent provisions of the bill we are discussing, which I think the debate on the amendment has been wronged. Then I'll go into the case. In the 18th century, therefore, in the century of Enlightenment, Chezare Bekaria had stressed that the penitentiary system does not have vengeance, but penitentiary. Two centuries later, Michel Fucco at the "Conservation and Punishment" had claimed that the prison, when it operates as a store of souls and as a pool, reproduces crime instead of eliminating it. Today, then, we are also discussing a bill entered into a continuation of progressive reforms, which started in 2015 in our penitentiary system and which have common denominator a strong human-centered view of the law, but also a clearly progressive perspective of the penitentiary policy. The interventions that have taken place since 2015 in the penitentiary system by the government have made a decisive contribution to removal from previous reasonable, reasonable pool, reasonable physical or mental extermination through sentence or reasonable prison in prison, such as the "white cells", to which some here had rendered and the hard term "waste type C". Afterwards, then, this progressive reconstruction of the penitentiary policy, this bill comes to regulate the critical issues relating to the treatment of people who are being released from prison due to mental or mental disorder. With this bill, a dividing line is drawn up with the past, when the only goal of the penitentiary system was the isolation of the mentally ill from society and the over-emphasis on incarceration while indifferent to his mental or mental illness. In other words, we are changing the reference model from a conservative reading of the disorder, clinging to incarceration, and we are moving towards a modern human-centered view to treat people who are exempted from the penalty and for whom appropriate treatment measures are chosen. We have heard from colleagues from the Officerate of Anti-Population object to these progressive provisions of the bill, in their well-known exaggerated manner of fear of the perpetuation of public security and risking criminals who may flood society with this bill. The reversal of the Officer’s Refugee on the progressive changes of the bill became even more evident with the provisions on consensual divorce. The opposition disagrees with the provisions for consensual divorce before a notary, in the presence of a lawyer, claiming that the marriage is equitable with the cohabitation agreement. It is an exaggerated conservative concept, the one that also supports attachment to a judicial and often traumatic experience even for consensual divorce. Let us also take into account the European practices and progress made and which our Urban Code must incorporate. I am now going on - and I close with this, I do not want to abuse time - on our controversial issue, which is the famous amendment to auctions. There have been many criticisms, both on the right and on the left. Let me start with the right-wing criticism. Crocodile tears, excessive sensitivity to legislate to protect the first residence. By whom, colleagues? From you? From the parties that were ruling and which had sent forty-five thousand people to the availability, which had fired fifteen thousand civil servants, had they taken the minimum wage of the young people to 400 euros, or have they taken the loans abundantly without any guarantee at all? Look, these sensitivities - we have heard of the people's residence and of various others - are inconsistent with either redundancies or extraterritorial companies or undeclared statements. And I come to the left-wing criticism. What we didn't hear! That we're doing the same thing, that we're criminalizing everything, etc. Put things on sobriety in a row. Nor is there any peculiarity nor anyone wants to punish the protest nor does anyone want to criminalize the resistance. Personally, and as far as I am concerned, I have never been a defender of the protection of everything from auctions. There must be no intentional confusion and a distinction must be made. The auctions existed before the crisis and before the memoranda. For many centuries there have been many. There are auctions relating to private affairs, differences between individuals. Can individuals, for example, be excluded from debt? There are the strategic poor payers. All these diligent ‘local’ of the previous governments, which were the model of a diluted businessman with the bankrupt enterprise. All of this emblematic bubble of false euphoria and prosperation, which was founded on overheads in the interior and over-profits fleeing through the smooth and glossy ways in the paradises of abroad. The sea-lovings, as the well-known publisher told us last year, are nostalgic. EUR 40 billion has been spent on the recapitalisation of banks either from the state budget or from the loans. And you know, when the banks aren't recapitalised because some volunteers took the sea loans against unburned air and so on, it means that they can't get a loan and the consistent borrower can't support a small-scale business, an honest businessman. So we cannot confuse all this and put it together. As far as the amendment is concerned, I am not a legal person. I have listened very carefully to the Minister, but also to other colleagues who are highly qualified lawyers, who have not said so much. We haven't had any electronic auctions so far. They were done with another model. Therefore, as from the Criminal Code to the peace courts, it is transferred to the offices of the notaries. Was it, why did the troika and the lenders ask for it? The notaries asked to protect themselves in their work. It's some conspiracy plan for us bad guys, the mutant neoliberals - and what didn't we hear? - to get the houses of the world? Obviously not. I think that the question of protecting the first home must concern us, ladies and gentlemen. The notaries should do their job without being threatened. The issue of first residence is a major issue and should be protected at all costs. On 31-12-2014, the last protection net expired. We did something. What did we do? The Katseli Act is amended by the better - the Katseli - Stathakis Act, as we call it - which also concerns loans not only to banks, but also to public and local authorities. For entrepreneurs who have put a mortgage on business loans their residence, there is an out-of-court settlement mechanism. He asked - I think it was Mr Pafilis - before: 'Those who have not been subject to the Katseli Law' - where, in passing, the deadline for submission is 31 December 2018 - 'what will they do'? I shall therefore say that yes, this law is capable of being protected, but it is not necessary and other steps need to be taken. We must legislate even more stringently to protect the first home. I think that should concern us. It is not, therefore, that we are punishing the protest or that we are criminalising resistance and movements. It is a request from the notaries to transfer what is the case in the courts of peace, in their offices, to do their job. Right and wrong? Apparently, no. I repeat that our concern, in the light of our policy in this difficult context, should be to protect the people's first home, which is to a large extent the law in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u710	Thank you. I'll give a minute's speech to the Deputy Minister, Mr. Vitsa, for a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u711	It's a legal improvement to Article 45 of the law body you have. I tell you what it says: ‘In point (a) of paragraph 1, for a share-holding period up to 31-12/2014, the amount of the aid is derived from the multiplication of their years of participation ‘in the Special Account on the sum of the basic salary’. Right there is supplemented "of the pay scale in which they are integrated" and then continued. This has to do with differences, that is, that it was the special payroll in the old days and that it's the special payroll now that we have different scales. This is also the legislative improvement. I'm tabling it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u712	I would therefore like to inform you, because I have heard that you are asking, that there has been a parliamentary representative and two Members left from the list of speakers. The Minister will talk about the closure. I would like to inform you, or rather, that the roll-call starts at 21.00, because they are a number of colleagues with their bags outside. Help us catch the target, because I don't know if we're gonna make it. Mrs Maria Triantafel has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u713	Thank you, Madam President. I am going to speak at the outset about an amendment that has been accepted. It is an amendment that we tabled together with Mr George Bordenden for the grant of exceptional one-off aid in the form of a allowance to affected persons and businesses in the municipalities of the Regional Unit of Iotolakarannia, but also of Preveza, as supplemented by the Minister, which has been put in emergency because of the extreme weather phenomena presented on 1 and 2 December 2017, according to the example of other allowances granted to other regions, Samothraki, the West Attica region for the disasters we had in Mandra and other regions. I would like to say two things about this amendment and about what happened in Itolo-Carnania and, unfortunately, has also been done in other parts of the country this year. I would like to say that there were indeed extensive disasters in the urban fabric as well. Aetolocarnania is the largest county in the country. There were disasters both in its southern part, but also in the northern counties. There have been extensive disasters, as I said, in the urban fabric, in villages, mainly in the Municipality of Agrinio and in rural and livestock production, but also in businesses. So there is a direct need for state aid. The specific amendment, which has fortunately been accepted, has also been tabled in this direction. But I want to say this. After such catastrophes and in Itolocarnania, as was done elsewhere, there is also a bid to deliver responsibilities and the causes and make available for supply. There were too many tiles, and that is how it had to be, of course, that came to the Atalo-Carnania prefecture by all the parties. There was a fuss about ministers who came or didn't come for a few money that was given. However, I will tell you that there has not been at least any control and no effective performance of responsibilities so far. What do you mean? How come they really do exist? Beyond the severe weather phenomena, which, when a weather phenomenon is so severe, can create many problems and disasters, we do not, in my view, stand with due attention and due responsibility for what has happened. All these days and steps from GEOTE went to many affected areas of the prefecture. I read their announcements and their conclusions. It happened today to give a press conference on these specific issues, where they say: we did small and larger projects on a hard background. We build in the sand and it costs money and it can cost lives as well. Indeed, it is said that chronic pathogens are recovered every time we are in front of disasters. People know that. We do not need to say anything else, as it was, what the responsibilities of the previous governments were and how we manage this problem. We don't have to say anything else. It is, however, important to highlight two, three points. Let us say, the flood risk management plans that should have been completed since 2015, were not completed by 2015. That is why there is the warning letter from the European Commission and it has been relaunching the projects with ESDP funds since November 2016. I think that these points should be made precisely because there have been human interventions, political interventions and political choices over the years, which have led to these orbital designs, whether in urban or rural areas, etc. I therefore think that from now on, at least from us - we have a huge responsibility for this - we need a national planning at last. A comprehensive project of living, prioritising the most dangerous points for resident and rural areas of the country and municipalities is needed, especially in areas where such phenomena are most frequently observed. There is a need for specialization of actions. All these measures must be taken quickly, but national planning is essential. I will insist on that, precisely because I think that such a new type of occurrence of such weather may not be too far away. I don't think we should be so unprepared. I would say that in Iato-Carnania, at least on the road that connects the Agrinio to the Mesolonghi, it is a miracle that we have not mourned victims. I have no time to talk today about what has happened, about schools that we saw were built next to rocks and much more I could say. Today, of course, he rightly monopolized the interest of the debate and of the bill itself, but also the protection of the first residence, of the people's home, which is very serious, of course, at issue. The protection of residence and first residence after 2018, but also the initiatives that we need to take on this issue, is really a matter of urgency. In my opinion, we can also take initiatives. In addition to the legislative regulations, we must take initiatives that are essential and very specific and practical. There's the Observatory in Greece. I would say, however, because everyone must speak and take responsibility for what they say, that there must also be specialization. There must be an Observatory in every county. I know in my area what exactly is going on, what exactly comes out of auctions, when it comes to auctioning. I think that all these elements are not just accounting data, but they are elements which can essentially specify and give significant answers to what it means to auction, because a number of other issues are being auctioned. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But the big picture isn't that. Today, of course, we are talking about the auctions, which I say again are a major issue, but that is not the big picture. We are at a time of transition, in my view, and in Greece and the European Union, the outbreaks of the new society that want to expand mainly to Greece. SYRIZA, let's say, which in times when the army is more relaxed, more flexible, supported and supported movements and wanted to stop being just a protest, just one expression of discontent. This is the problem mainly for the New Democracy and for the PASOK, but not only that it aims to manage the state, to have a state expansion, not to be self-regulated by the struggle for the structure of the state, not to invoke political weakness, not to invoke this "three powers we have, so many forces we can", to be present in the complex remodeling of the state. And he'll be judged what he's doing. If there were no difficult conditions, ladies and gentlemen, the Left would not appear. It is not just a question of keeping us in a government, it is about giving examples of governance and such governance, that is, justice, true justice and real changes that the place needs. We'll be judged for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u714	Mr Lazaridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u715	Ladies and gentlemen, as the previous Members and the Minister have said, no first residence or residence is going to be auctioned. And as has been said, the law of Katselis and Stathakis is protected until 31-12-2018. So there is nothing to fear of any of these fellow citizens who, without their fault, were found to be afflicted today. But who are they in danger? The strategic malicious payers and the great ones. They are indeed at risk, and that is how it should be. If we search through the lists of strategic malpractices and majestics who are the ones on the list, what are we gonna find? Oh, wonder, those who made most of the fuss in here today, the two parties, the PASOK and the New Democracy. Didn't they borrow 220 million each party and 240 million the other party? And so honestly, these two parties were working, which made the mortgage subsidies they had received when they arrived in 2014, because they intended to feed the banks. And when the Agricultural Bank went - because that was their biggest debt - and sent them out of the shop and told them that it is not honest what the courts are doing and will start, they closed it down in twenty days. They did the same with the Post Bank and the Commercial Bank. They were the banks where they had the highest debts. These are the big ones and the strategic bad payers. Indeed, they are in danger and that is why they have been making all this fuss since the morning. And that's why they're making such a fuss and fighting in such a way to create noise, to hide their embarrassment on the one hand and, on the other, that because of the government's performance lately, last year, some things began to appear abroad with the exits that the country made, with bonds, with swaps, etc. With the last swap, we had a record of eleven years. The interest rates secured by the country are compared to the interest rates of 2006. Of course, 2006 is one of the periods when the Vice-President of the New Democracy - who is present - does not like it that much. Because when he was in LAOS he had declared that the country was bankrupt. The Vice-President said so. He said the country went bankrupt from both parties, PASOK and New Democracy. This government is managing and trying to get the country out of the crisis, from all this disaster that these two parties have brought her to. Of course, he has had many reasons, many issues on which he must make noise so that they do not appear. We had the offshore. And when the wife's offshore was revealed, the statement they made to cover her was worse than the fact itself. Why did they say he had offshore the wife? Because the funds with which they only cooperated with offshore can cooperate. And what are the funds, ladies and gentlemen? These are the 'gypsies', the 'kids' that go around the world, they buy debts from countries or citizens below 10% of value, and then they demand it much higher in order to obtain the maximum benefits, the maximum profits. And without shame, they say this thing about their president's wife. That is why I am telling you that the excuse and statement they made was worse than the very fact. That is why one must understand their embarrassment because they are trying to cover a lot of things. I'd like to move on to my place. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is an additional legislative initiative aimed at speeding up the administration of justice, mainly in the light of transparency. And here we are talking about speeding up justice. Justice, why is he stalling? Because, in fact, all this delay in justice is like refusing to deliver justice. It is thanks to these two parties, thanks to the legal framework that these two parties have shaped and justice works. As has rightly been heard during the committees, the bill introduces certain provisions allowing things self-evident for treatment, which have so far been banned, such as medical permits, residence in an extra-homosomal structure or even at home by monitoring by a mental health service. We see that this piece of legislation ensures that patients who have committed unfair acts, in a way which respects the human patient and at the same time protects society, by reducing relapsing, in order to give a breath of law and rationalisation to measures for perpetrators of criminal offences, with mental or mental disorders that have been blocked or substantially reduced, a matter in no way justifying any tension and the climate in which we are moving today. The text of the bill, but also in the explanatory statement, are incorporated - among other things - by the points made by the National Committee on Human Rights, by the Citizens' Co-legislator and by the Hellenic Psychiatric Society. It is thus attempting to give a breath of humanity, a breath of law and rationalization about measures for the perpetrators of crimes with mental or mental disorders that have effectively excluded or reduced their apportionment. It is also worth mentioning in the bill some important regulations, such as the fact that the court will order the appropriate medical measure for a person who has committed a criminal offence, but the possibility of lifting or replacing the measure imposed, at the request of the healed person, will also be provided. Therapeutic means necessary for treatment such as licensing and expenses, means of increased psychiatric care and safety, protective isolation and physical restriction are permitted, while absolutely measures such as sterilisation or lobotomy are banned. Among other things, we would like to refer to the proposed provision whereby pro-zootic associations are able to present themselves to pro-zootic associations in support of the category and only when dealing with pet crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not accidentally making this report. We fully agree with the specific arrangement allowing pro-zootic unions and associations to attend trials involving the abuse and torture of animals. We agree and it's something that offends us all. The issue with our strays has dealt with many times because of the many complaints and we believe that this arrangement will dissuade many who will attempt to do something like that. The Independent Greeks, after all, have put forward our views on this issue, and we have proceeded with a proposal for an amendment regulating old habitats of small stray animals, that is to say, establishments operating in the care of stray animals, requesting the re-adjustment of certain conditions which make their work difficult. As for the sterile opposition of the PASOK and New Democracy parties in all the bills under discussion, as in the Ministry of Justice, I would like to say that it would be preferable for the place to work with the same heat to resolve these and other issues in the years that had the rule of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u716	Thank you. The last speaker has the floor on the list, George Papaphippou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u717	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill and, in particular, its part on the treatment measures for persons exempted from the penalty due to mental or mental disorder is of historic importance, for the reasons set out by many colleagues in the Couple, and in particular the eminent lawyer and professor, Mr. Paradiseopoulos. However, the other provisions are equally important because they facilitate and speed up the administration of justice and, in fact, legal certainty, the procedures are simplified and the role of lawyers is improved and I stress this because I too am a lawyer in the profession. Unfortunately, however, there has been a disorientation. Instead of having a substantial debate on the bill, it focused on an amendment by the Minister for the amendment of three provisions of the Criminal Code, namely Articles 315, 333 and 334. I too feel obliged to devote my speech to this part in order to counter falsehood that has been said in this Chamber. They are all a political spiral of vast proportions. And that's why? They claim that, today, there is absolutely no protection for our economically weak borrowers against their debts to the banks and that the amendment at issue makes it easier for our compatriots to carry out the auctions in order to lose their first residence through them. Is this really the facts presented by colleagues in counter-population? Of course not. It is, however, a story that was made by colleagues in the anti-population and by media toward them who are intended to terrorize the world and make it believe that there is a danger to its first residence. I assure our fellow citizens, therefore, that there is absolutely no risk of losing their first residence, since the Stathakis Act mainly widened the debts that can be incorporated into it and included in debts to the public and insurance funds, ensures them fully for a loan of up to EUR 280,000. The proportion of our compatriots who should not be concerned is 80%. Is the contested amendment really in the direction set out by the Vice-President? Of course not. I should like to say that colleagues in the Opposition have told us that crimes and peculiarities are being introduced for the first time, or that existing offences are being turned into pecuniary offences. Does this claim have anything to do with the truth? Of course not. What provisions are being amended, ladies and gentlemen? It must be understood by the people who are listening to us, to stop being terrified and afraid. The provision of Article 315(2) is therefore amended. And what's he doing with that amendment? It includes civil servants for the offences of physical harm committed against them by the author of the prosecution. Here, Minister, I told you, and in private, there is this provision, because Article 13 of the Criminal Code also includes the notaries in the conduct of the auctions. In any case, however, this is the amendment. Where do you see the peculiar name? Where do you see the new offense? The second provision concerns the introduction of the own-initiative prosecution of the threat, that is to say Article 333. Is this where we have a new layout? Do we have a peculiar name? As Mr Paradoxopoulos rightly pointed out, the rule in criminal law is an own-initiative prosecution of offences. The threat is exceptionally persecuted. However, on the basis of what has been done recently against notaries, is it not appropriate to do so? Thirdly and finally, there is an addition of a paragraph to Article 334, which exists, provides for the penalties which are laid down and automatically prosecuted. What is this paragraph? In the case of notaries carrying out an electronic auction at their offices. Wasn't that an empty one? When the Criminal Code was drawn up, did we have electronic auctions? There was an empty and right one, so it's complemented. Ladies and gentlemen, you must understand this. Enforcement, because auctioning is a means of forced execution, is an institution of every legal order based on Western legal culture. It is completely intertwined with the proper administration of justice. Can you imagine our compatriot getting a vote and not being able to execute it? Basically, we are undoing the administration of justice. The government's will, however, is not to protect the big-time and strategic poor payers who received huge loans and many of them planted their capital on paradise islands. They must therefore fear that they will have no protection. It is necessary to carry out and carry out auctions at this stage to stimulate the financial system. I call on our compatriots to be able by 31 December 2018 to join the Katseli - Stathakis Act and not to be reassured. I also assure them that if they have financial difficulties, that is to say to a lawyer to initiate the procedure, there is the institution of legal aid and they will have to take advantage of it. That is all, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u718	We're not going to go through secondarys. They've all agreed. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u719	Ladies and gentlemen, I am bypassing as the first element of my position and of my speech the issue that has arisen and dealt with the national delegation today. I would like to tell you, however, that in the area of Criminal Law, in the area of the management of all of our fellow people who have suffered a crime, but have not been charged, it is a historic meeting for the Greek Parliament. Historical session! Because a loose end of over fifty years is currently being solved in the best possible way. A sixty-year-old Parliament of the Greeks has now resolved it, and I think that is what honours everyone, and those who participated in the debate and those who contributed with opinions and suggestions. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not unfortunate what has been heard by many speakers that we are moving from asylum to dismantling. The bill that we discussed and will be voted on shortly passes through criminal hell in treatment. It is particularly good that the competent body, which will determine how to treat it, is no longer a single-faced body, the prosecutor, is a court in which it can develop its views with its prosecuting lawyer, our fellowman who has been subject to criminal offences, but reduced counting has been identified. Also, the procedural guarantees given for this procedure are strong and absolute. I mean that the system of mental monitoring, as stated in the law, is extensive and fully ensures the process within the therapeutic institution. The Advocate General shall also be appointed as supervisor of this procedure, precisely so that there is no break-up and no adverse change in the conditions laid down by the court. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a lot of talk at the National Representation on Article 2. Although the legislative committee was of the opinion that we do not need anything more than what we originally recommended to the National Representation, despite the fact that there is no gap and no doubt that the government wants to do the best, we accepted the proposals and added to paragraph 1 the wording that treatment time can be extended more than ten years to the felonies and four years to the defects, as long as there is both the opinion of doctors and the head of the clinic. Here, look out. There's been a lot of conversation. In my opinion, it is the right thing to do now in the law, as we shall vote on it. Yes, but under no circumstances can the maximum penalty be exceeded. And the anticipated sentence, ladies and gentlemen, for serious offences, which are perpetrated in the Criminal Code and directed against human life, in particular, and health, are highest. If we have a man who's been subjected to homicide, the life expectancy is life. And the other offences are up to 15 years in prison. So you realise that not only are we in this way in line with the principle of proportionality, but we are also giving all that margin but also the timescale for the treatment to take place. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that, with Part One of the bill, the Greek legal order is completely in line with the international prisoners, for which, many times, our country has been observed for this decades and for this decades. The second report I'm going to make on the bill is about the consensus divorce. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that all those objections and fears expressed during the debate on the draft law, on the constitutionality of the provision, but also on the recognition of this divorce by the European Union's foreign legal classes, have been resolved. I am not going to use the word 'consolidated' because it is a word of dispute, but I think it has been resolved. And they have been solved in the best way possible both during the debate and with the opinion of the Scientific Council of Parliament. For the fear that this process may not be recognized by the legal classes of the Member States of the European Union, I would like to say once again that at the moment we are discussing the three Baltic countries, Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania, Spain and Romania, this procedure has been allocated to the notaries. Even more, in Austria and Hungary, there is the possibility either of the notary or the retired person. And you see here from what I have said that the trend is the delegating of cases. In France, too, the citizen has the possibility of appealing to the court and to the notary, divorcingly. It is a provision, ladies and gentlemen, which upgrades the institutional role of the lawyer. Because the lawyer will no longer only plead his order before a judge, but he will be the same as his colleague, who will in fact resolve such a serious issue, which - be careful - is entirely coupled with the solution of some other issues. And these are custody, communication and feeding of children. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this provision does not only enhance the institutional role of the lawyer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u720	Minister, please, please conclude because - you have seen - everyone is in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u721	It is a provision that promotes social peace as well. In other words, it gives the initiative to a couple, to two people who divide, to resolve these differences in social normality and peace in a spirit of social normality, which were most often brought into dispute. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close my speech with a reference to the amendment at issue, which was more or less concerned with today's debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u722	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u723	I would like to say that the government has done nothing more to ensure that the legislative system is extended to cover the protection of notaries in the course of electronic auctions. Nothing more. As I did not mention in my last speech a legislative improvement on paragraph 2, I am tabling a legislative improvement which removes paragraph 2 from this amendment because, in our view, the proper conclusion of an auction is fully served without the specific provision of paragraph 3, which is listed and taken as number 2. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like once again to thank the debate and the contribution of ideas and opinions to the best possible outcome, which we have achieved with the latest legislative improvement. I think that the bill should have the absolute acceptance of democratic parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u724	Thank you, Minister. The debate on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights is adjourned: "Training measures for persons exempted from the penalty due to mental or mental disorder and other provisions". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u725	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u726	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u727	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u728	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u729	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u730	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u731	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u732	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u733	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Training measures for persons exempted from the penalty due to mental or mental disorder and other provisions" was accepted in the first place by a majority. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. In order to vote for the amendment under the general number 1411 and a special 130 of the bill, a request for a roll-call vote has been submitted by Members of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u734	Madam President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u735	No, Mr. Georgioda. Another amendment will now be voted on. You have another parliamentary amendment. You will take the floor as soon as the roll-call is over. We are here for the roll-call vote requested by the MEPs of the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u736	No, Madam President, before the vote begins, I want a minute to place myself on something. Do I have the floor, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u737	Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u738	The New Democracy, Madam President, tabled an amendment of its own a little while ago. I don't know if the Minister could have seen her. Once we see this interest in the protection of civil servants in an own-initiative way in the performance of their duties, we propose that there should be an extension of this protection to all civil servants, to all civil servants in the exercise of their duties. That is what we think is in the spirit of the Minister's amendment, that there should be this enlargement, because there too public officials are those who are in services and are being intimidated and threatened and subject to violence. To have universal protection in an unequivocal manner to all civil servants and civil servants in the performance of their duties! That is what New Democracy wants, and if it is not really hypocritical what you are supporting, you will accept our amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u739	Mr. Georgioda, all civil servants are protected by criminal provisions. So, what should we write? As far as we can show passion?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u740	That is exactly what I wanted to say, Madam President, that all public officials are protected in the texts in the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u741	And in any case, you tabled it after having declared the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u742	Madam President, it is impressive that the New Democracy brings a provision which is in a vacuum, because the Criminal Code protects public officials. Read the relevant articles. However, what goes beyond every limit is that, after the debate is over, you will have to bring in an amendment and for so many days to blame us for bringing in late amendments! So, how far are you finally coming?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u743	Protect all civil servants! They are public officials who are attacked by the Ruvikon!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u744	Everybody, Mr. Georgioda! Now we are not talking about Ruvikon here, we have another matter! I repeat, therefore, that the vote on the amendment of a general number 1411 and a special number 130 of the bill has been applied for a roll-call vote by Members of the Communist Party of Greece, whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u745	I will also read out the list of signatories to request a roll-call vote in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mr. Koutsoubas Dimitrios. Here you go. Mrs. Papapaiga Alexandra. Here. Mr. Bardale Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Giokas John. Here you go. Mr. Delis John. Here you go. Ms. Canelle Gallifria. Here. Mr. Karathanasopoulos Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Katsotis Christos. Here you go. Mr. Lambroulis George. Here you go. Mrs. Manolaku Diamond. Here. Mr. Moraitis Nikolaos. Here you go. Mr. Paphis Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Steerios Constantine. Here you go. Mr. Synthrates Emmanuel. Here you go. Mr. Tassos Stavros. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure for a roll-call vote. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u746	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote on Amendment No 1411 and a special 130 of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights bill: "Training measures for persons exempted from the penalty due to mental or mental disorder and other provisions". They accept the Ministerial Amendment of 1411 and a specialist of 130 say 'NEI'. Not accepting the Ministerial Amendment under general number 1411 and a specialist of 130 say 'OHS'. The voters say 'PARON'. Mrs Anastasia Gara is on the list by SYRIZA and Mr George Kasapidis from New Democracy. I would also like to inform you that fax (fax) colleagues have come to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, which makes their vote known on the Ministerial Amendment number 1411 and a specialist number 130. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u747	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters from my fellow Members have been sent to the Bureau. Antonyou Balomenaki, Nikolaos Maniou, Christoforos Papadopoulos, Georgios Nzimani, Anastasios Kourakis, Charalambou Athanasiou, Savva Anastasiadis, Fotinis Arabatzis, Ioannis Antoniadis, Maria Antoniou, George Vagios, Apostolos Vesiropoulos, Vasiliou Vesiropoulos, Vasilis Yoyaka, Stergiou Giannaki, Constantinos Giouleka, Georgiou Karas, Georgiou Kumoutsakou, Theodorou, Konstantinos Konstantinou, Konstantinos Kokoudimou, Emmanou, Evanstou Xanthi, Kyristoula, Kystastou Xanthistas Evanstoulistou, Mikallastou, Mikallastou, EvanStou Xanthistadou, Mifastou Rastastou, Miastoula, Mifastilistoula, Mifastoula, Mifastou, Mifastoulatastou, Mifastou, Mifastou, Miadisulastouladou, Miastoudadisulaststoulatastou, Miadisulastou, M. These letters, which express the intention of voting, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting, but are not taken into account in the counting of votes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u748	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and to get the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u749	Ladies and gentlemen, until the count is completed, we are voting on the rest of the articles in the bill. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u750	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u751	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u752	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u753	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u754	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u755	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u756	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u757	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u758	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u759	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u760	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u761	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u762	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u763	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u764	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u765	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u766	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u767	Article 2 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u768	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u769	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u770	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u771	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u772	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u773	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u774	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u775	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u776	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u777	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u778	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u779	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u780	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u781	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u782	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u783	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u784	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u785	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u786	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u787	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u788	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u789	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u790	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u791	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u792	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u793	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u794	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u795	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u796	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u797	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u798	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u799	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u800	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u801	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u802	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u803	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u804	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u805	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u806	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u807	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u808	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u809	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u810	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u811	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u812	Article 7 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u813	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u814	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u815	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u816	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u817	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u818	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u819	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u820	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u821	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u822	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u823	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u824	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u825	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u826	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u827	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u828	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u829	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u830	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u831	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u832	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u833	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u834	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u835	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u836	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u837	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u838	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u839	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u840	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u841	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u842	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u843	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u844	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u845	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u846	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u847	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u848	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u849	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u850	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u851	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u852	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u853	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u854	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u855	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u856	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u857	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u858	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u859	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u860	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u861	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u862	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u863	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u864	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u865	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u866	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u867	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u868	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u869	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u870	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u871	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u872	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u873	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u874	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u875	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u876	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u877	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u878	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u879	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u880	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u881	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u882	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u883	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u884	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u885	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u886	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u887	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u888	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u889	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u890	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u891	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u892	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u893	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u894	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u895	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u896	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u897	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u898	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u899	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u900	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u901	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u902	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u903	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u904	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u905	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u906	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u907	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u908	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u909	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u910	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u911	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 19 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u912	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u913	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u914	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u915	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u916	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u917	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u918	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u919	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u920	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u921	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u922	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u923	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u924	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u925	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u926	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u927	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u928	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u929	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u930	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u931	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u932	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u933	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u934	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u935	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u936	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u937	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u938	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u939	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u940	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u941	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u942	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u943	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u944	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u945	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u946	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u947	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 23 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u948	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u949	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u950	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u951	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u952	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u953	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u954	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u955	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u956	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 24 be accepted, as amended by the Minister responsible?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u957	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u958	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u959	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u960	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u961	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u962	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u963	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u964	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u965	Article 24 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister responsible, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u966	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u967	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u968	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u969	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u970	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u971	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u972	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u973	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u974	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u975	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u976	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u977	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u978	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u979	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u980	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u981	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u982	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u983	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u984	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u985	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u986	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u987	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u988	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u989	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u990	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u991	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u992	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Is Rule 28 acceptable, as amended by the Minister responsible?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u993	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u994	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u995	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u996	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u997	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u998	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u999	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1000	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1001	Article 28 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister responsible, by a majority. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1002	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1003	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1004	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1005	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1006	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1007	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1008	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1009	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1010	Article 29 was therefore unanimously accepted. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1011	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1012	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1013	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1014	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1015	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1016	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1017	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1018	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1019	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1020	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1021	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1022	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1023	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1024	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1025	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1026	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1027	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1028	Article 31 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 32 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1029	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1030	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1031	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1032	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1033	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1034	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1035	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1036	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1037	Article 32 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1038	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1039	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1040	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1041	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1042	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1043	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1044	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1045	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1046	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as it has unanimously been. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1047	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1048	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1049	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1050	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1051	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1052	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1053	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1054	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1055	Article 34 has therefore been accepted as it has been unanimously. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1056	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1057	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1058	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1059	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1060	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1061	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1062	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1063	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1064	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1065	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1066	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1067	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1068	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1069	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1070	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1071	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1072	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1073	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1074	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1075	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1076	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1077	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1078	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1079	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1080	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1081	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1082	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1083	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1084	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1085	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1086	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1087	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1088	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1089	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1090	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1091	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1092	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1093	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1094	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1095	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1096	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1097	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1098	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1099	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1100	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1101	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1102	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1103	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1104	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1105	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1106	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1107	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1108	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1109	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1110	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1111	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1112	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1113	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1114	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1115	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1116	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1117	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1118	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 42 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1119	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1120	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1121	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1122	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1123	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1125	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1126	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1127	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1128	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1129	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1130	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1131	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1132	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1134	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1135	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1136	Article 43 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1137	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1138	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1139	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1140	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1141	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1142	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1144	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1145	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 45 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1146	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1147	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1148	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1149	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1150	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1152	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1153	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1154	Article 45 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 46 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1155	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1156	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1157	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1158	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1159	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1160	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1161	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1162	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1163	Article 46 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 47 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1164	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1165	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1166	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1167	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1168	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1170	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1171	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1172	Article 47 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 48 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1173	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1175	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1176	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1177	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1178	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1179	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1180	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1181	Article 48 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to Rule 49, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1183	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1184	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1185	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1186	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1188	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1189	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1190	Article 49 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 50 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1193	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1195	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1196	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1197	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1198	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1199	Article 50 has therefore been accepted as a majority. Will Rule 51 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1200	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1202	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1203	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1205	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1206	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1207	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1208	Article 51 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 52 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1209	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1210	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1212	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1213	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1215	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1216	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1217	Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 53 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1220	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1221	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1222	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1224	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1225	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1226	Article 53 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 54 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1228	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1229	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1230	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1231	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1233	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1234	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1235	Article 54 was therefore accepted as a majority. We are entering the vote on the amendments. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1403 and a special number of 124, as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1236	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1237	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1238	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1239	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1240	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1242	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1243	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1244	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1403 and a special 124 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1408 and a special number of 128?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1245	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1246	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1248	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1249	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1250	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1253	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1408 and a special 128 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1410 and a special number 129 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1254	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1255	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1258	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1260	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1261	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1262	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1410 and a special 129 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. The amendment with a general number 1411 and a special 130 was put to roll-call vote. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1412 and a special number 131 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1263	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1264	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1266	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1267	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1268	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1269	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1271	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1412 and a special 131 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1413 and a special number 132 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1272	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1273	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1275	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1276	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1277	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1278	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1279	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1280	The amendment, by a general number 1413 and a special 132, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1416 and a special number of 135 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1281	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1284	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1285	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1286	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1288	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1289	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1416 and a special 135 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1417 and a specialist of 136 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1290	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1291	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1298	Therefore, the amendment, with a general number of 1417 and a special 136, was accepted as it stands, and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 1418 and a special number 137, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1300	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1302	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1303	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1304	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1305	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1307	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1418 and a specialist of 137 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1420 and a special number of 138?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1308	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1309	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1311	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1312	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1314	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1316	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1420 and a special 138 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1421 and a special number 139 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1317	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1318	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1321	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1325	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1421 and a special number 139 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1404 and a special number 125, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1326	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1327	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1334	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1404 and a special 125 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, acting unanimously and is part of the bill as the same article. Will the amendment be accepted under a general number 1405 and a special number 126 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1335	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1336	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1337	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1338	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1341	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1343	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1405 and a special 126 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1407 and a special number of 127?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1344	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1345	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1346	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1347	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1348	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1349	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1350	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1351	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1352	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1407 and a special 127 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1414 and a special number 133 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1353	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1355	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1356	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1359	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1360	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1361	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1414 and a specialist of 133 has been accepted as it has unanimously been adopted and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1423 and a special number 141 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1363	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1364	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1365	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1366	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1368	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1369	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1370	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1423 and a special 141 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1371	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote in this House. They voted 243 MPs. In favour of the amendment, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 146 Members. In other words, 35 Members voted against the amendment. 'PARON' have voted 62 MPs. Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1411 and a special 130 was accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1372	We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1375	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1376	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1377	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1381	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Training measures for persons exempted from the penalty due to mental or mental disorder and other provisions" were accepted in principle and on articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1383	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1384	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1385	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1386	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1387	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1388	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1389	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1390	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights: "Training measures for persons exempted from penalty due to mental or mental disorder and other provisions" was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all of them and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1391	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1392	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-12-21-S1-commons.u1393	With the consent of the House at 22.32 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 22 December 2017, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
