ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's approval from 22-03-2017, the minutes of its PRACTICE sessions were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, of Wednesday 22 March 2017, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Definition of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of the Environment and Energy of the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Industry and Energy of the Government of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Cooperation in the field of Renewable Sources and Energy Efficiency and other provisions’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in the House on Friday 24 March 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question by MP Achaias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Athanasias Anagnostopoulou to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights concerning the improvement of the legislative framework for the involuntary hospitalization of mental patients. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 621/20-3-2017 by MP Drama of the New Democracy Mr Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the implementation of the vertical road axis Drama - Amphipolis. 3. PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the reappointment of importers of higher education on the basis of academic and rational criteria. 4. The Question No 627/20-3-2017 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Michou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the occurrence of outbreaks of avian influenza on domestic holdings. 5. The question by No. 639/21-3-2017 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, about the reconstructing of the Labour Housing and Housing Organizations. 6. The Question No 620/20-3-2017 by the Member of Parliament of the Greek Independents Mr Konstantinos Katsikis to the Minister of the Interior about the compensation of owners of the exempted areas for the construction of a landfill area of Western Attica. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under number 625/20-3-2017, a topical question by MP II Piraeus of the Central Association Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of the Interior regarding the payment of contractors to several municipalities in the country. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 630/21-3-2017 of the MP Cardiff of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotas Vranzas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food regarding the impending liquidation of inactive agricultural cooperatives and the exploitation of their assets. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 622/20-3-2017 by MP Magnesia of the New Democracy, Christou Boukorou, to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the payment of the transport of students by means of special student cards with public transport. 3. The Question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance about the stage of the investment of the former airport of Greece and its delivery to the investor. 4. The question by No 640/21-32017 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Nicholas Moraitis, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, about meeting the needs of personal security in order to reopen the Museum of Legend of the Municipality of Akio - Vonicas. 5. The Question No 633/21-32017 by Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on the subject "delays excitement and fraud".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the second with number 611/17-3-2017, a topical question from the Deputy State Minister of New Democracy, Dimitrios Stamatis, on the "Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs" statements by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs on the electoral gatherings of Turkish parties in Greece. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, George Katrugalos. Mr. Stamatis, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with the statements you made last week, you have committed two major points. The first point is that, while the sultan of Turkey is threatening everyone and everything, he threatens European citizens that they will not dare be released, at that very time you have taken a stand in favour of the Turks in the conflict with our European partners on the possibility of mergers. Beyond this self-proof force, we lose an opportunity: to take advantage of the Turkish attitude, to prove the whole world - and above all in Europe - who are our neighbours and why we are obliged to face up to a reality that they do not live in. In fact, this also has serious economic consequences because of defence spending. The second challenge is that you have basically invited - I do not know if you have understood it - Turkish officials to hold election gatherings in our country. So, are there Turkish voters in Greece? Secondly, are you ignoring that the arrival of Turkish officials, when it took place, was typically carried out on the pretext of a private visit and visit to the sacred places of Muslims? While there is no such precedent, while there are no Turkish voters in Greece, your report acts as an invitation. It was thus appreciated not only by our media, but also by the Turkish: both "SAMPAX" and "HURIET". After that, I ask the government if your views reflect both the positions of the Greek Government and whether the Government intends to allow Turkish officials to gather to Greece and, in fact, to electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. The timely question will be answered, as has been said, by the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Katrugalos. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, there is a good and generally accepted tactic by the parliamentary parties, not to attempt to convey to the point of micro-party controversy national issues, which has so far been respected by your own party, and you are violating it. I must therefore return to you the characterisation of the urgency which is mentioned in your question, because you are in fact playing in any way players, in fact, by adopting distortions of my evenings, which have nothing to do with the subject of your question. From this point of view, your question, like the next one, actually moves in the field of post-reality. It is not about a fact, it is not about my statements, it is about falsifying my statements from my well-known media equator. On the substance of the matter now. Greece always wants to emit the traits of a mild and stable force based on international law, does not claim anything, but is not prepared to grant anything. It is precisely for these reasons, because it feels certain about its strength - and also as a member of the European Union - that no desire has to strengthen the escalation of tension, even when it is fuelled by the provocativeness of the other side. In fact, this is the great bet for our societies: when we are faced with challenges of this kind or with challenges of even greater intensity, such as those of yesterday's day in London - a terrorist attack - the big bet and the great challenge for us are how to keep the characteristics of open society, we will not dismiss our rights and we will not become the same as those that threaten us. In the context of this, therefore, this was my essential position and, by saying - and it is to the honour of the next question, because it seems that he read this narrative - that I am not prepared to refer to internal decisions by other countries, I mentioned the rule in force in Europe. The rule, therefore, is that, regardless of whether or not foreign officials are authorised - this is a matter of international law - the freedom of mergers is the rule and their ban on exemption only where there is a risk to public security. So this position is a European position. I would remind you that only in the Netherlands, in view of the election period and the risk that was obviously estimated to exist there for public policy, concentrations were prohibited. On the contrary, they were in France, Germany, Sweden. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I have here a number of statements by Prime Ministers and Foreign Ministers on this issue. Because my speaking time has ended, I am emphasizing the statements made by the Swedish Prime Minister: 'Free meeting and expression is a fundamental right in Sweden'. ‘Although Sweden does not miss an opportunity to express concerns about democracy in Turkey, it is not prepared to impose a ban on political persons in the country’. This is a statement on 13 March. Since he is a social democrat, I will read out the statement of the President of Boudestag, who is in your ideology: "The principles of the German constitution are unnegotiable. To that end, and despite the perfectly justified reactions here, these rights must apply to everyone. Everyone may freely deliver his opinion to Germany, including foreign visitors.’ For this reason, as I said before, the next and my statements, Mr Dabutoglu was in Cologne. Finally, corresponding joint statements by President Olad and Mrs Merkel, after a telephone conversation with them, were posted on a website on 16-3-2017. So, with regard to the first part of your question, contrary to your view, it is my view that it also responds to the situation of understanding the rights of assembly in Europe and the one which, in fact, all European leaders have adopted. The question of political concentration in Greece is no question. It's what goes on in the field of post-reality. In my answer - if you see it in the video - I said that this is a hypothetical possibility. I've never talked about election gatherings. As you said, I have referred to past visits, saying that we have never prevented Turkish officials from communicating with their fellow citizens. This is quite a different thing with the realisation of political gatherings, precisely because the number of Turkish voters in Greece is very low and virtually none of them are in Thrace. The Turkish voters are here, are businessmen and are, according to evidence given to me by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, 90% in Athens. In view of these things, I think that we should continue with what we have had so far, namely the Turkish question of taking them outside the political arena and trying - as we always do - to safeguard our national laws and our national interests in the same spirit of stability and vigilance that requires not only our own history, but the national interest itself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Dimitrios Stamatis, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u8	Minister, it would be enough to refer only to the second part of the answer you gave me and not to involve it with your first plea, that what we say is dangerous. What you said is dangerous. All right, they did not understand the 'both-knails', they did not understand your statements by the Turkish newspapers either. Didn't the Minister understand it? So Mr Kotzias, two days later, when he was asked about your statements, said: 'The Greek Foreign Minister does not speak before specific applications are made'. Didn't he understand? He also did not understand Mr Vitsas, who said: 'It is not in our interest to get involved in this case, which is characterised by the electoral processes in the Netherlands and the referendum in Turkey.' Don't we all understand? When many do not understand your point of view, look for you to understand what you said wrong or bad and not us. Now, with regard to the other issues, the election gatherings in Germany have not taken place. Meetings and meetings were held in enclosed space. Election gatherings didn't take place. But the position alone of the Greek Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, while this harsh confrontation between Europe as a whole and Turkey is at least unrealistic. Repeat: Our country has a unique opportunity to show who our neighbours are. Because we are forced by these neighbours to maintain powerful Armed Forces at a high cost. As regards the second issue, indeed in the past, Minister, using the pretext of a private visit, Turkish officials came to Thrace and, when they exceeded the limits of the private visit, comments and protests were made on the Greek side about their unacceptable behaviour. I remind you that in 2004, when Erdogan first came to our country, he did not even go through offices of the Turkish minority in Thrace. He avoided that, too. It was the most challenging behavior that occurred in May 2015 by Erdogan's son, who literally did a whole tour, claiming things that we refuse. So to say that we are ready to accept requests to visit Turkish officials formally means to change our country's attitude to that possibility. That means indirect invitations, unless you don't understand. I would ask you very much in your denture to be much clearer in this second issue, if, in other words, we now have Turkish officials' requests to visit Greece officially, to see their fellow citizens, as they say, the fellow Christians, as we say, and whether this will be accepted by the Greek Government. My question is clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Stamatis. Minister, you have the floor to answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u10	It is obvious that our Government has a single position on this issue. It is obvious that the Minister for Foreign Affairs, precisely because he has confidence in the way I handled the matter, has given me the answer, although he was referring to it. It is also clear not only from the answer he gave at the time and, indeed, reiterated my position, that on hypothetical questions we cannot be put, but also from the fact - which you do not know of course, but it is easy to see - that he had reiterated on his own post - retweet - my post - tweet - that I denounced the'montazier' of the relative distortion of my statement just after it had been made. Obviously, Mr Vitsa's statement is no different from that which I myself made on the same show, that the election climate is not allowed to poison relations between states. Contrary to what you think, I believe, as I said in my previous statement, that trust and attachment, our principles, the principles of European legal culture and rights, give us far greater weapons to the neighbour, when it has features of provocative and undemocratic behaviour and in general the challenges of our societies. On the contrary, I am sorry to tell you that, because I do so personally - it leads you to be identified with the Golden Dawn. The same content is in your questions. On the subject of Turkish officials' visits, as you say it is, with great hypocrisy, of course, which we as government are not prepared to repeat. When Mr Erdogan as Prime Minister visited for a private visit in 2004, he was accompanied by a hundred and seventy - six other Turks. Macedonian Minister and State Secretary for Foreign Affairs and MP Rhodope welcomed him at the airport. These are things that, as you can imagine, are in no way consistent with private visiting features. The same thing happened in 2011 -- it wasn't just your topic -- when Mr. Dabutoglu came in. I repeat what I said. We are not prepared - as you have not done - to prevent communication with their fellow religions whenever they so request. However, there is no request for an election meeting. There is no objective basis for the election in Greece because the number of Turkish voters is, in fact, minimal. Therefore, the Greek state's policy on this matter has a full follow-up. It is - I repeat - particularly dangerous to try to create micro-party confrontation issues where there are national policy issues. Our tactics towards Turkey, therefore, to make it clear there too, has essentially three aspects. One is the following, which we fully agree with, the vigilance, the direct controversy and the rejection of any provocation with reason and work. The second aspect of our policy, however, is not to exclude Turkey's European perspective, not only for the benefit of the Turkish people, who have an interest in having a European future, but also because it is clear that our country is in the interest of having a European and not a hostile Turkey to its side. The third aspect of our policy is that, as we do with other countries, we want to strengthen economic ties with that country and bring people closer together. That is why, for example, by continuing my predecessor's policy, we have succeeded, with the help of local society, in restoring this pilot visa programme so as to facilitate short visits from the coast to the islands. We are trying to strengthen tourism and economic relations. We want to have friendly relations with Turkey on condition, obviously, that it also takes the same attitude to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u12	You did not answer me, Minister, for the visits of Turkish officials.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u13	He answered, Mr. Stamatis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u14	I've answered your question. There is a continuation of our Greek policy. We have no differentiation from that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-six students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd High School of Alimos (first Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] To inform the students that they are attending a Parliament meeting on one of the two projects that the House is doing. One is the legislative work, which the bills are discussed, and at the end they are passed and made the law of the state. The second function, which is very substantial, is parliamentary control, namely government control over all matters by Members. That's what we're doing today. The Members have tabled questions which they orally develop under a certain procedure, and the Ministers are answering them. We now have the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Katrugalo, in the government headquarters and underneath the Members are developing their question. In this case, the type of parliamentary control is the timely questions. We will now discuss the third with number 609/16-3-2017 a topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Ioannis Lagos to the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the "electional gatherings of Turkish officials in Greece". At this point, before you took the floor, Mr Rabbit, I wanted to say that I was concerned. It is the same content as the previous topical question, but I appreciated that we should discuss it separately, because each party has its own way of developing the issue, and on this basis the Minister's answer may be differentiated, as far as the type of data, the style and the others are concerned. In this sense we have not merged them to discuss them together. Mr. Rabbit, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, you are quite right that the position of the Golden Dawn on this issue by the New Democracy is different. I'll say why the New Democracy shouldn't be talking, in the limited time of the two minutes I've got. I would therefore like to ask the Minister this question which the Member of the New Democracy has already asked, of course, otherwise, because the New Democracy cannot say much, since it has its own house here and has many problems. How did you make that statement? You say that you have not made the statement and I hope you have not made it, and I hope that this is the case, or at least I hope you understand your mistake. Europe is right now in the fingernails of Muslim terrorists, who come out every little bit and do what they want, but, besides that, let's look at election gatherings or meetings held in Germany, Sweden and I don't know where else and in many countries of course don't see why they don't leave them. How dare we compare Germany with our Thrace, where the Turks have separatist positions, where the Turks claim our Thrace? As much as we here hide and ostrich, the reality is. Therefore, instead of the Greek Government’s position of being firm in the Turks, not even dare to think about these things, you make these statements. They are taken after the Turkish media, they are taking advantage of your statements and you are telling us here inside that it was not like that. So why didn't you sue the journalists or those forms, which have distorted a statement of yours, since it's what you're saying? It has nothing to do with a simple matter here. We are talking about the national sovereignty of our country here. We are talking about the Turkish coming and making gatherings in Thrace, where your own MPs are, your own members, who claim that there is a Turkish minority. Do you understand what we're talking about? Are we going to compare with the Netherlands and France? Good for the people there. They weren't allowed to gather. Do you understand what would happen if the Turks in the Netherlands, for example, wanted to win the Dutch territory? You saw what happened with these conditions now prevailing. And we say about the Thrace that it's not like that, but that we're going to respect it? You said earlier in your answer about the same question - so the people who are listening to us know - that the state has a follow-up to what it does. But, right here is the question, that the state, unfortunately, has continued in the bad things that are happening in our homeland, as in the economic disaster of our country. That's where the state continues to exist. But on this issue too, the minority of Thrace, where the Turks claim our land, unfortunately has to be kept on track. It's always the betrayal New Democracy and the PASOK, and you do exactly the same. I'm going to continue in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u17	The Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr. George Katrugalos, will answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u18	Mr Rainbow, I am referring essentially to what you have said. There's no point in repeating them. I was hoping that you at least - because I think Mr. Stamatis hadn't seen either the show or the video - you would have seen it. From what you said, you hope I didn't say what I said, it seems you haven't even seen the show. Between us, two serious people, before you ask the timely question, before you come here, wouldn't it be advisable to see what I really said?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u19	Thank you. Mr. Rabbit, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u20	So listen to what a difficult position the Minister has come to. After we talk about serious people, Minister, when you talk about serious people, you will go to your MP Zabeck, who says that there is a Turkish minority in Thrace and, if there is a serious and serious one, you will tell him that these should not be said or naturally supported. Since there is seriousness, then, you have to tell us what the position you are presently expressing on the Muslim minority in Thrace is. Make a statement to us right now and tell us, since we are serious people, what your position is for the Muslim minority in Thrace. What is the Muslim minority in Thrace, from whom is it made up and how are some interests played over there? Tell us, let's talk seriously. Tell us, too, how many of your candidates are there speaking and photographed under the flags of so-called 'independent Western Thrace'? Because we are serious and because I believe that you have made this statement or did not do it, but in fact within you you believe, do me an analysis of what you said before. You said that you do not know how to say it and at one point say that there is a minimum number of Turkish voters in Greece. Are you serious? What is the minimum number of Turkish voters? There are no numbers of Turkish voters. I want you to tell me, since you're saying there's a minimum number of you who are the Minister and we're talking about such critical issues, what's that number? A hundred and fifty people? Three thousand? Seventeen, twelve? How many are there? Tell us we know. When you have such positions as SYRIZA, of course you cannot get a clear position on what you are saying. Because either you do not support our national sovereignty in Thrace, because that is how you have learned through the Bolshevikism that you believe, or, and believe in something better and different, you cannot be expressed. You will allow me to speak for a minute and for the nerve of the New Democracy. It's unacceptable. The New Democracy MEP has now come out to ask a question about this provocative statement by the Minister. What does that man say to us? He says that "we are not allowed to do what is done, because with the Turks we must take care of our behaviour." I have two or three things to testify here. First, in the combination of New Democracy Mayor's Candidate, Felina Kazaku, she was a candidate for the editor and director of the Gran Wolves weekly newspaper 'Jumhuret', Seser Rizza. In the New Democracy it is now the ones who asked you a timely question to resign beforehand. So Sezer Riza talks about a Turkish minority in Thrace. I'm telling you this so the Greek people can hear it. As regards Mrs Felina Kazaku herself, she went before the elections and visited the women's sector of the Western Thrace Association. This club goes to international fora abroad too many times and there it talks about the oppression of the Turkish minority of "independent Western Thrace". I say this to the knowledge and compliance in the New Democracy, not to do such things, because they cannot say these things anywhere, nor to their voters, and, when they go to Thrace, they do not know where to hide them. We're going to a second incident, because we could say it was an incident that got away. Applicant with New Democracy, Ekran Imamoglou, has posted a photo on Facebook with the so-called "independent Western Thrace". I shall submit these to you for the Minutes. We also have another incident. Mrs Zabek Eysel, who was also a candidate for the New Democracy, says: "I proudly declare that I am a Turkish and an honor for me." We continue and say this lady: "The problems which Greece has constantly posed for our Turkish identity must finally be solved and it oppresses us." That's what the New Democracy candidate says, who came here and dared to ask such a question. When this incident occurs and they tell this lady about Greek Pomakus - why the Turks don't want to hear about Pomakus, because the Pomans are Greek Muslims and want to assimilate them and take them in their arms - the lady turns around and says that "everybody says what she wants" and that "they may want others to call them elephants". This is what the candidates and officials of the New Democracy say. So the New Democracy doesn't talk, especially when her Chief, Karamanlis, became a best man with Erdogan. They should say that somewhere else. Finally, I would like to point out to the Minister and to the Government that you, in this statement that you have made - if you have not done it, do not know how you say it - are coming after what you are doing as a government and handing over our Thrace to the Turks, saying that they are allegedly claiming it. You have put a pilot project in kindergartens - if you don't, Minister, listen to it now - learning Turkish and Greek languages in kindergartens. These children and their parents don't want to have anything to do with the Turks. But you, your government, force them to go to minority schools and learn Turkish. This is the government of SYRIZA, this is the Opposition of the New Democracy, and that is why you said quite rightly, Mr President, that we should ask the timely question separately, because what we can say is not anyone else in the Greek Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u21	The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, George Katrugalos, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u22	What can I tell you? I tend to be serious about every person, but I do still have a difficulty in understanding how you are asking about something that you do not have an image and which you have admitted in your dentistry. Because we are in the Greek Parliament, I will answer the specific questions raised. It is obvious from the Treaty of Lausanne that there is a Muslim minority in Thrace. As you know, no one in the Greek Parliament is in favour of the secession of Thrace. As far as the number of voters is concerned, we have Turkish voters in Greece. The largest group of them are homogeneous, people who came from Istanbul, Imbros and Tenedos. How do we know? Because, as we facilitate the electoral process in all the countries that we are asking for, we have accepted Turkey's request for the election process to be held at its consulates and embassies, and so we have the numbers. There are nine thousand six people in Athens, seven thousand fifty eight in Thessaloniki, four hundred forty-six in Rhodes and sixty-four in Komotini.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u23	I'm not used to interrupting, but you said they're the ones who are either Istanbul or Imbro or Tenedo. So they're not Muslims. So he's got nothing to do with Erdogan coming here to talk to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u24	That's different. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u25	If you understood, I said before in the reply to Mr Stamatis that I never talked about Turkish election campaigns. I am just answering your question about voters now. There are voters. They don't have anything to do with Thrace. There has never been a question of election in Thrace. What I said before was that my position was about a matter of principle, which really stands out for us. We consider that there is a core right reserved for all people and that is above political tensions. Indeed, I avoid confrontation with your own space, because it is the difference of our ideological views and because I think the problems are clear to the Greek people. But I cannot tell you that, when you address the left, the issue of patriotism should have it in your mind, looking at what happened when patriotism was a matter of life or death during the period of resistance. See if you liked ones, of those who think that Nazism and the Aria race are the ones that guide our politics, it was the ones who were enemies of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u26	Why, tell us where you are democrats, are the children in Thrace learning Turkish?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u27	When the Left gave for the whole nation through EAM the patriotic struggle, several of your like-minded ones, all of your like-minded ones, were on the other side. So there is the crucial risk of patriotism.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Minister. We move to the second with number 610/17-3-2017 a top-level question from the Member of Parliament, Halkidiki, New Democracy, Georgios Vagionas, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the intention of the Ministry to degrade the branch of former IKA - now IKA - in New Mudania Halkidiki. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mr Vagionas has the floor for two minutes to develop his timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u29	Minister, in Halkidiki, who has a population of one hundred and five thousand people, before the EKA, there were five branches of IKA - ETAM dispersed, two in the north and central Halkidiki, Polygyros and Arnaia. It was abolished that of the Arnaia. The second branch of IKA - ETAM was in Mundania and there were satellite centers in Kallikratia and Kassandria. Both have been abolished and the offices have been closed. There's two left, the New Muddanians and the Polygirl. With the degradation at a station there'll be no IKA, there won't be an IKA in New Moudania. It will be a transmission centre for citizens to Polygirl with two, three employees. So I can inform you that the New Mundanian Falcon is the first to be spent in central Macedonia. Secondly, the geographical distribution of Halkidiki is such, because there is no urban transport, except the CBELs that go to Thessaloniki. The movement of the people of Cassandra or Paliourios or Pefkochoriou or even of Cassandria to go to Polygirro is still a hundred and twenty miles [20 km] to go and come. Thirdly and most importantly, in Halkidiki, and particularly in the centre of EKA of the New Moundanas, there is an industrial, crafts area in Lakma, Halkidiki, which has been aggravated by the TYPET of private employees, the former TXY and an EEA unit. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] For the rest, I am going to look after the dentistry, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Bagiona. Mr Tasos Petropoulos, State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Bagiona, the stores you referred to, the individual social security bodies of the past, were closed. You didn't say that. You said what closed, but you didn't say when.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u32	Long before you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u33	Long before our Government, all these stores you referred to had been closed down. So we must now see what the new situation is in the geographical distribution of the stores that we need to manage. There's nothing else in the Moudania than IKA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u34	Only IKA existed, there was no IKA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u35	In Moudania there was also OAUs, the free professionals, who were suspended, shut down and transferred to Polygyros, again by a previous government and not by ours. Now we have in the Multifibre former Single Fund of Independent Workers, now it's all NSAs, former OAUs and IKAs. What can we do now? Take it all around, carry it right and left, to facilitate the electoral base of the Members of Parliament who are interested? I don't think that's a good cause. In Moudania, with four hundred square meters of surface, we pay 1,700 euros a month rent. In Polysyros, with three times the size, that is, a thousand two hundred and a thousand squares, we pay less rent, 1,600 euros. We'll check it out, because I haven't had time to see whose one building and whose other one. Obviously your interest is not for the benefit of the renting of such a small space with such a high rent in Mundania. I'm sure you're interested in this place, I'm sure of it. But the explanations I am giving you, I think, are convincing about the criteria that we have had to say that, since there are already the records of all the members of the OAU, the EBRD and the IKA, there also has an installation that serves more extensively and can absorb all the bodies, it is the most reasonable thing to do to be in Polygirl, which, after all, is the capital of Halkidiki, if I am not mistaken. Why should we look into it? I am sure you will agree on this as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Deputy Minister Tasos Petropoulos. Mr Vagionas has the floor for three minutes for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u37	Minister, I would never ask a question, and indeed timely, if my motives were humbled, namely what rent you pay in the Moudania or what we pay to Polygriro. It's a funny thing. I can assure you that the Polyglycaust doesn't have an office to sit down with the workers. So if you load the PVC Polygyros with all the New Muddanian Narcotics, you are unfair for two reasons. The first reason is because in smaller areas, for example. in Pella, you have two main DEKA addresses and you have an assistant, a station, as you call it. The revenues, as I said before, of the current EFKA, formerly IKA - ETAM Moudania, are the first in central Macedonia. Aren't you interested in the revenues? You know that, outside of the ten thousand building companies that exist, there are others in the summer, which are much more, because of the population idiosyncrasy. In the summer, IKA Mundanies is charged with seven hundred thousands of tourists in these two areas, i.e. Kassandria and IKA Mundanies. I ask you: can't you count on the revenues? You're only counting the rent? Do you not count on the suffering of the people who will do to be served by EFKA Polygyros about two miles [200 km] go - come? Don't you count on the costs they're going to do, because there's not enough transport network, except by an IX car or a taxi? Are these reasons for the timely question, and even when you have no place to put the employees of FYROM, if the FYROM closes, if it is degraded to a station? What's that supposed to mean? He will say that the world will not be served, the world will be spent, the state will lose revenue. If you want anything else, 65% of IKA - EBRD of the Halkidiki population, as in almost all of Greece, were served by these offices. Today is 100% of the insured who are served by both, who want to make them one. So think, then, that Halkidiki is a prefecture where only its coastline is about six hundred miles [600 km], and the mountain volume of Cholomonta cuts down the central and northern Halkidiki, which has the seat of the old county, from the south of Halkidiki, the Municipality of Popodidos and the New Mundania. I am in favour of e-prescription, for e-government and, if possible, only from Athens to serve citizens with a button, as many players, especially, say, for that. I am one of the people who supported e-prescription in 2004, which has not yet been perfected. You've made a pilot program, see the weaknesses of the pilot program with a reliable program. Because here there was a little mistake, in my view, and I do not know whether it is certain: instead of taking the IKA programme, we took the OGA programme and we have huge problems. So that the world is not troubled, that the state is trustworthy, that the state has revenue. Admit to stay the Mundanian Vaccines as they stand. There will be less suffering for people, much more for the state and, in addition to that, there will also be a relative economy for employees. When e-government is completed, then I will be the one proposing to become a single centre for all of Greece. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Bagiona. Mr Tasos Petropoulos has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u39	In my protagonist I developed thoughts about the core of your timely question, that the Mundania should exceed Polygyros. That was coming out of your question. Because, otherwise, the Mundanian authorities are not able to imagine that it is happening in any way, because in Mundania the structure that exists and will be served by all the insured will be maintained.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u40	How will it be, Mr. Undersecretary?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u41	We did not abolish services in Moudania. On the contrary, they are being upgraded, because from the same point of the city, from the city, that is, because for the point we will see why the rent is so high for such a small surface. It's huge. I don't know if rents in Moudania are too expensive. I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u42	You should find out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u43	We'll find out who gets that much rent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u44	If the rent falls, will it be held as it is in the Moudania, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u45	Of course. If you also contribute to helping out there with the municipality - I don't know who you are influencing - and give us a place, so that we don't pay anything, of course, the service, which will serve not only the employers who work for the hired job, but all of us, farmers and free traders and scientists. This is the Single Institution for Social Security: a system that eliminates distances, eliminates service time - that is our intention - to end up at some point - and I believe that soon, we are working on it - by typing efka.gov.gr, we will give the services the service without having to pay such costs. Until then, no structure of the existing ones has been abolished. We are better organized, more efficiently and with the least possible costs, in the interests of the insured, the structures which serve the insured. Our aim is to serve the insured, not the bureaucracy and interests that often touched these structures in a way that was finally strangled by the targets that social security should serve. We want social security for the insured and not for those who benefit from her existence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u46	I keep your promise to reduce the rent.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. We will now discuss the first under number 615/20-3-2017 a topical question for the Second Cycle of the Radical Left Coalition to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the Single Social Security Agency (ESMA). The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. He has the floor for two minutes, Mr. Syriza's MP, to develop his timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we all know that from 1-1-2017 the Unified Social Security Institution, the ECA, operates, and the procedures for the processing of the new organisation, the new establishment plan, which has even been in consultation within the agencies, have been initiated by the agencies of the former funds that have joined the single organisation. From the publications we have seen from the organogram that is currently in existence on some islands of Cyclades - but I have the feeling in other island regions - which had branches and which have been abolished since 2012, that is, from the previous government, where we now have social security offices in Andros, Milos, Serifos, etc., these offices with the new establishment plan do not seem to be maintained. They do not appear to be maintained because, until now at least, there are in the new organisational directorates and departments. It is said, in fact, that these islands will fall within parts of either other islands of the same prefecture or even regions of Attica. Obviously, as you can see, if the social security offices are abolished, we will have a very serious problem, because, firstly, because of their deterioration in a branch, many powers have been lost and indeed in areas where there is a large number of labour, such as Milos, for example, and secondly, the suffering of residents going to the seats of the departments or addresses, where they are alleged to belong from now on, will be very great expenses. Just because there is this concern and agitation, that once again, islands are downgraded, we would like a clear answer. This is a requirement for all island parliamentarians, not only of the Members of Parliament, but also of other areas of island Greece, where this issue is called into question, namely whether there will be even these nuclei of the social security offices, where residents will be able to deal with their cases without moving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u49	Thank you Mr. Syriza, SYRIZA MP. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. The islands of the country are one of the issues that we know very well and we want to take into account in every project. We have done the same with the organisation of the single social security institution. Your timely question, Mr Symblenier, gives an opportunity to inform the islanders of this very policy that we are developing for the service of islanders. Of the first things I said, the example of the islander taking the boat to go to Piraeus and possibly go to Syros, to do his job, is real. That's how it used to happen. This ends. It's already over. For a large number of insured persons it's already over. There is a part of the services that will be completed in order to complete the service in all sectors. However, all the islands are being upgraded. In the Cyclades - to confine myself to your question - the address in Syros is upgraded, strengthened. The decentralised social security departments of the EFKA are more developed than the social security offices, so with the development of decentralised departments in Tinos and Mykonos we have even better reinforcement of the structures, because that is where we create decentralised sections - I repeat, Tinos and Mykonos - and we keep the social security offices in all the islands where they exist, it is not gone anywhere. To the extent that we can and the adequacy of human resources for staffing, we will develop other such structures of social security offices on the islands, in order to actually have the best possible coverage of the needs of the insured in the island country. That is our policy, and that is why we anticipate in the relevant establishment plan, which is not the final one, what may be leaking from the services, because we have given it to all social security officials, too, to tell us their opinion. It's a process that's done with the participation of FBI officials and officials from extremes across the country. But it's not the final one. I have said this on many occasions, and on this occasion again, and we really want this to be completed in April. However, we see in the establishment of new social security offices that, in cases decided by the administration of the ECA, it will also be possible to do so. However, they are lacking in the organogram because they are not organic units. Because they're not in the organogram, it doesn't mean they won't exist. In the organogram, there are only the organic units, which have structure, heads, executives. Understand? The social security office is, of course, employees of the FBI, without organisational structure, because you don't have to. These are mainly service points for the world and the handling of their requests through the electronic systems we have, which we will develop. We will have them and develop them to a greater extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Symblene again has the floor for his denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u52	Minister, I am pleased to accept your reply that social security offices will be maintained where they exist today. Personally I do not care whether they will be called offices, departments or anything else, as long as they are social security units which serve residents and only if the jobs of the workers are maintained, which are fewer at the moment, and do not move residents outside their islands. I would like to say that some islands, such as Andros or Milos, need to be aware that they are regional unity seats. That is, especially Milos includes other neighbouring islands, such as Sifnos, Kimolos and others. Sheriff has a social security office. You understand that Andros and Milos could also be social security departments, because, if an employee is missing, for example, it could be with the new law of the Ministry of Administrative Reform with voluntary movement to want to go, so the four become five and, if I'm not mistaken, with five being formed, because there will also be a head. But the main thing is what responsibilities these offices will have. If they have competences to meet the real needs and to remove the movement of citizens, then of course there is no cause for concern. If, however, the powers of the offices are downgraded, because there will be an upgrade of the departments and addresses, then obviously there will be a problem and it will be recorded in practice. Clearly we are in favour of the electronic coverage of requests and I hope that on all matters this could be resolved either through JEPs or through offices. However, the powers must be clear and they must be able to move forward until the electronic transaction procedures are in place. There is another issue I want to raise. For example, today Kea is served by Lavrio. If Lavrio is abolished - why do I think there is such a suggestion in the plan for the organogram - these people are going? One of this. Second, Andros, as placed in the organogram, should belong to Tinos. Until now they were served by Andros or Attica. These are issues that can be solved by transforming some offices into departments and thus there is no need to move around. Moreover, there is also an issue with OAED. I think this has been solved through the provision adopted by the then IKA programme convention, now IKA, with the OAED. You need to see this and deal with it. Why did we deal with issues that people were moving to other islands or to Piraeus or elsewhere, so that they could declare their transition from work to unemployment with their first self-determination. These are therefore issues where, until all is settled electronically, policies such as this need to be implemented, which strengthen islandity and not degrade it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u53	Thank you to SYRIZA MP Mr. Syriza. The State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Anastasios Petropoulos will respond. Here, Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Syrmalene, the services and structures of the EFCA will not be closed in Lavrio. There was this news. He's got nothing to do with it. Lavrio will remain, strengthen with the new functions, serve all the institutions - and the former social security, so every Greek, every person who lives and works in the country, from which there are services of the FBI. Lavrio, from this point of view, will be upgraded and served by Kea, as it could best be with the design we have done. Whether they are parts or not, it is a matter that has nothing to do with the population alone. It has to do with how all the work is organized. It is better to have a social security office served by an employee. It doesn't have to be one. If he's not here, he might be a second. It is not what we want, of course, to have succeeded, that is to say, in having numerous places of service in terms of employees. It must be the abolition of bureaucracy. When you have a lot of employees in a structure, it doesn't mean you're better off. You service better when you have formed systems that simplify procedures and speed up service. We'll do that. It's not in full application yet. It is designed and progressed in setting up the relevant programmes. We know it's gonna happen. I would therefore inform you that it will be done and done in a way that we have said - and I wish we had such structures in the country, which, unfortunately, are not - that is, with good computerisation and electronic service for citizens. It never happened. Since you heard and thought you would have every village and Wi-Fi, the years passed and we didn't even have ink to print. The structures are gone. We've been fighting for two years to organize the computer systems of the FBI in a way that's too heroic. The management shall have all day. We must praise the executives and employees of the EFKA who are making every effort to operate this whole system, finding patents, indeed, with their inventivity and intelligence, in order to operate a system, which does not work with anything if you do not interfere with it. That is why we are organizing it and we will replace it. Now, however, we are working with the existing and existing systems are problematic and we are trying to achieve what we can. Nevertheless, success in the service of the insured will be our goal and we will be more and more close to the absolute service of the insured. So, after all, we see it. I have no objection to the media making available to us local communities and mayors, that there may also be service offices, which will be provided by the local authorities themselves. We've said that. Local authorities themselves will be able to - easily, because it will be very simple for the system, and very familiar with the way and people will be familiar with it, so that they can serve the needs - from the social security institutions themselves to make these services. We do not need to build a complex structure for points of service. We will see this soon and with the help of the Members of the island, so that we can find solutions for the best service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u55	Thanks to the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. Petropoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, we have some requests for a absence permit abroad. MEP Christos Kelles requests a short-day absence abroad from 26 March to 1 April 2017. MEP Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou seeks permission from the work of Parliament for the period from 24 March to 26 March 2017, due to a transition abroad. In addition, Mr. Friends is requesting a foreign leave for the period from 24 March to 28 March 2017 for personal reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u56	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how it operates, thirty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the 2nd High School of Alimos (second section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Let us inform you that you are following a parliamentary procedure, which Members are asking questions, judge and control the government. In the oral questions which the Minister responsible answers. This is the one function of the House. The other function is legislative work, in which bills are being discussed, adopted and made the law of the State. We are now at that point of parliamentary scrutiny, which is called 'official questions'. He is asking a question from a Member and in a week's time the Minister is obliged to come and answer the honourable Member who is asking. We move on with two questions concerning the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, which will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Evangelos Apostolos, who is here. The fourth question by number 608/16-3-2017 will be discussed in the context of a top-level question by MP Pella of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Ioannis Sahinides to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on anti-purpose protection. Mr Shahinides, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, in my humble view two are the most serious problems facing the rural world. One has to do with predicting the extreme weather phenomena, and it is certainly directly related and compensation by the ELGA and the second is to ensure the proceeds from the sale of agricultural production. My question is about the first part, about anti-hailing protection. It is of course not only about central Macedonia, to which I am referring, but also about the rural population as a whole, all of which is universal. Therefore, because of the critical period of peach flowering that we are going through, and more generally for all agricultural crops, it is necessary to buy and place more certified thermometers in order to provide data on the frost which is affecting farmers' productions. After all, Mr Minister, it is a requirement that all the rural associations in Macedonia should be universal. Recently, the Presidents of the Agricultural Associations of Skydras, Almopia and Naoussa, who are also members of the Federation of Agricultural Associations of Treasurers, visited the branch of ELGA KEME in the area of the airport of "Macedonia" of Thessaloniki, where they requested and discussed, raised the problems they face. So you're asking me, Mr. Minister: Firstly, how directly there is the possibility of buying and placing the record thermometers and whether the quantity of the record thermometers will be sufficient to cover the cultivable areas. Secondly, if there is a study showing that the cost of purchasing these thermometers will be lower than the compensation requested by ELGA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Shahinides. The Minister for Rural Development and Food will now reply, Mr Evangelos Apostleou, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u59	We are in the direction of improving forecasts in response to weather impacts. However, we should make one thing clear at the outset: ELGA for the assessment of its losses from weather conditions is based on ELGA's assessors - geoponets. I say this because the data of certified meteorological stations, such as, for example, the National Meteorological Service, can be used by the National Meteorological Office, but they are not an exclusive parameter on which we will take decisions on the on-the-spot examination, the consequences that exist after the on-the-spot examination of geo-estimators. In this context, therefore, and also for the provision of meteorological information to the ELGA branches - because these are indeed responsibilities and must be done by the ELGA - we have already obtained sixty-five units of digital temperature measurement and recording. These units were distributed to branches of ELGA in northern Greece - one in fact went to Tripoli, to southern Greece - and the areas of establishment are indeed in high temperature glaciers, according, of course, to the historical data we have from ELGA. The cost of supplying them reached 17,500 euros and the design we have is to continue this coverage in areas of southern Greece that have similar problems. But you realise - I repeat - that this design is related to the elements of the ELGA for damages suffered by different regions. Also, by decision of the ELGA Board, we are now in the process of an attempt to get five automatic meteorological stations, which will be installed in particular in the Vereas and Kozani branches, a budget of EUR 60,000, which together with the two existing stations will help us, I would say, more to have an organised network in these areas that are actually affected in relation to other areas. So I would say that we show an interest and, given the economic circumstances, we are trying, as far as possible, to tackle these problems. At the same time, the ELGA Meteorological Application Centre will develop appropriate technology to interconnect it with other meteorological stations - it is very serious - such as EMY or other meteorological stations, for example. More, because we keep going through procedures, I'll tell you in my denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Shahinides now has the floor for his denunciation for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Right here is the problem, Minister, in that there are few documentary thermometers. So the information, which the farmers have, is incomplete because they go to certify damage exactly where these stations exist. I have also told you in committees on several occasions that because of the microclimate - and this is about the morphology of the soil in Greece - there are stations which record in specific areas. But at a very short distance - I would say less than five kilometres - there is a different microwave, so that all the damages are not recorded. This has to do with the historical data you mentioned before. It makes sense that historical data are incomplete, since there is no actual record of these losses. Last year, I visited the KEME, Minister, at the airport "Macedonia", which is considered the third best worldwide. Indeed, the equipment it has in anticipation is one of the best worldwide after Canada, which is first and second in Denmark or Sweden, if I am not mistaken. However, the problem that arises here is precisely what I say to you: that the forecasts that the JRC can make in relation to the prediction of natural disasters have to do with the small number of these documents. It must be purchased much more because, as you know very well, Mr Minister, the turnover of farmers is about production and disposal. In order for this cycle to be extended, so that Greek products can be sold abroad and in any other market, something needs to be done about the forecast. Unfortunately, the only cycle currently in existence in Greece, Mr Minister, is the cycle of damages with the inability to protect producers because of the delay in autopsy - what you mentioned - by the ELGA and the delay in paying compensation from ELGA. And this is about the cost of production, the increase in taxation, the increase in insurance contributions. Farmers are defenceless in the face of merchant cartels, which often do not pay back production to producers. There is no guarantee of farmers' revenues. And, unfortunately, we have heard this recently: in the ECONOMIST report, where you were present, Commissioner Phil Hawkins said that Greece is being called upon to reimburse EUR 3 billion as a fine for illegal subsidies granted. Protect the rural world, Minister. The proposal of the Golden Dawn is to provoke a debate in the Committee on Production and Trade, where you will see that the Golden Dawn indeed has proposals and solutions on the primary production sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u62	Thank you. Mr Evangelos Apostolos, Minister for Rural Development and Food, has the floor for his denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. To close the question of recording, predicting weather phenomena, because it is very serious indeed. But, as you can see, what is important for the ELGA since there is an insurance cover for these losses is the assessment and payment as quickly as possible. Right now we have a hundred and eighty a weather stations. Indeed, these meteorological stations do not have the necessary equipment and, above all, do not have the necessary connection with other meteorological stations, as we have said, the National Observatory, the National Meteorological Service. We have therefore set up a working group to present us with a proposal on how this interconnection will take place and, above all, what is needed in terms of equipment, so that this meteorological information, which the other stations have, can also be used. It's a process under way. He has been charged with this work with ELGO - "DIMITRA". We think we'll soon have come to an end. But you have also raised other issues relating specifically to rural areas. There is a timely question, where we will be placing ourselves on the process of dealing with unfair practices in rural areas throughout the process, from production to the consumer. You have also raised the issue of fines, financial corrections - which is what they are called - and recoverys. It's a huge problem. We found it, we inherited it. Indeed, it is about EUR 2.7 billion. At this point we are in a negotiation with the European Commission to reduce and at the same time transfer our obligations, which, at least in terms of financial corrections to fines, are unlikely to be able to remove EUR 1, for the simple reason that they have finalised. So you realize what difficulties we face. However, I stress once again that we have found these, we have inherited them from the mismanagement of aid that has been done over the past few years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the first question by MP Pella of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theodoras Jackis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the position of farmers in the food supply chain. The question will be answered by the Minister, Evangelos Apostolos. Mrs Jackson has the floor to develop the question in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u65	Minister, the contribution of agricultural products to the country's external agricultural balance is particularly important. I would say, in fact, that even at this time of recession there is stability and dynamism. Let me just say that from 2008 to 2014 the value of exports of Greek products increased by 22.6%. In 2014 only agricultural products with a value of about EUR 5 billion represent 18.7% of the total value of agricultural products. As we all understand, behind these figures are the people in the countryside, our farmers, who in an environment where they see their income falling, have limited or even non-exhaustive access to liquidity and the cost of inputs and energy are constantly growing, are being called upon to cultivate competitors - as you can see - many times large crops and large productions and even products known for their nutritional value and for their quality. And, of course, their position makes it even more difficult when we talk about claiming a place on the world map. Globalization, which helped the extroversion of Greek agriculture, led to process of concentration in the food supply chain, which in turn led to imbalances between the professionals involved. What are the characteristics of the food supply chain today? On the one hand, there is a very small number of very strong retailers, who are directly or indirectly negotiating with a disproportionately large number of producers and rural industries. As we all understand, the farmer throughout this process is the weak link, who experiences unfair commercial practices every day and pays the price of the products. It also has restrictions on market access, it has issues with regard to unfair change - and even retrospective - of the terms of the contract. It also has issues when moving the risk, including transport and storage costs of these products, when it is called upon to manage the commercial part of its production. I think that these self-regulation and voluntary systems, Minister, have produced very limited results. I should like to say here that the producer, who is the weak link of the chain, has fear of exercising his rights, has fear of submitting a complaint to the most powerful party to the contract, because he fears that he will jeopardise his trade relationship, so that we do not have any sanctions, that we do not have a mechanism to submit complaints and his position to make it difficult. The problem as you can see and the size of the problem is huge. I think that the right approach also requires rules to ensure the proper functioning of the market, but also to ensure fair and transparent conditions for all parties to the food supply chain. Look, the pattern of 'product prices will rise constantly and the producer's income will fall' must be stopped. We all realise that there must be institutional intervention here - institutional interventions are necessary - for the farmer and the consumer, which are the first and last parts of the chain, we must ensure equal conditions and market and sales.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Jackie. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u67	There are many important issues raised by my colleague. I believe that, with your tolerance, Mr President, we will respond as specifically as we can. In the first question of what the European Commission and, of course, in dealing with unfair practices, we strongly support the adoption of legislation at European Union level, because only by common rules in a globalised market, such as the market in the European Union, can the right rules of operation be ensured, transparency, fair relations between all actors in the supply chain. The Fisheries Council, which took place on 12 December 2016, had precisely this as a matter of what proposals, namely, the European Commission tabled and tabled, to strengthen the position of farmers in the supply chain. In order to follow up these conclusions which we received at the Council, at the next Council meeting on 6 March, we and seven other countries asked for this matter to be discussed again, so that the position of the European Commission would be more specific. This has been done and we really agreed that, at least, the regulatory framework, which is to be taken at European Union level, should be a reference point in the Member States, so that they can, by going one step further, defend the rural area in and from national options. Secondly, how will the Agricultural Development Programme be used to defend the Greek farmer in particular in the chain? It is a priority for the agri-food sector, a priority for encouraging private investment and, of course, for operating through collective schemes, in order to restructure agricultural production using the Rural Development Programme over the next five years as a reference point in the agri-food chain. The third question was how we will implement at national level. There are interventions to defend agricultural products and they will be made. We have increased customs controls and we are in agreement with the Ministry of Economy and Finance. In fact, it is scheduled for the coming October to settle at four gates of our country, where we are facing a major problem of Greek attacks, groups of scaring agricultural products that will enter our country. We are also moving into legislation. Within the days - tomorrow - legislation will be given for consultation in the field of livestock farming, which will make milk, milk products, the packaging of the country of origin, the country of packing and production compulsory. In other words, it will be mentioned in this milk that the milk is the specific product, so that the consumer can also be informed and, of course, we can face the enormous attack that the area is under attack from the Greeks. The same will happen in meat products. This will be the case tomorrow. And, of course, we are also considering the case of electronic recording of the movement of products throughout the chain, from producer to consumer. I would say that this is the recording, which will solve the problem of Greekization definitively. The rest of the questions I'm going to answer my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Jackson has the floor for her denunciation for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u69	I heard you carefully. Unfair trade practices affect the farmer in particular, affect his income, affect his efforts, affect his viability and deprive him of the right to survive and develop. There is one paradox: The farmer is the weakest link in the chain, but it is also the cornerstone of the chain. I have listened very carefully to the efforts you have made to resolve the issue institutionally both at Community level and at national level. I think that all of what you have said, namely your announcement of regulations which make the labelling of milk origin compulsory, milk packaging, milk products and meat products, contribute in that direction. I believe, however, that there must be at least the equivalent for fresh and sensitive products. That is to say, we have to make provision - in this sense - for a time of time when the price is paid to producers. I think that this is the protective framework that the producers are asking for. Look, the problem isn't easy. I understand that. It is a complex one and a holistic approach is needed. What I think we should also do is inform the farmers - and that is where the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Development lies - of the financial instruments that exist in the new CAP, how much and what these financial instruments are. And I think there is enough that they can strengthen and improve the position of the producer and improve - if you like - its negotiating power, which will enable him to ensure better prices for his products sold. Both producer groups and producer organisations and contract farming and short chains, local markets, and even e-commerce. And you quite rightly said, Minister, that the regulation on electronic food traceability is very important both for food safety and for price control. In fact, it is a regulation that we all expect and can make a decisive contribution. The new CAP has only 4.5 billion Community participation. With national participation and private resources it can reach 6.5 billion. What would be desirable - and I will end with that, Mr President - is at the end of the day that there will be no reduction in the price of agricultural products paid by the producer. And I think that, at some point, the Greek producers should benefit from the added value that exists throughout the whole chain of value, which at present - to be honest - from processors, from wholesalers, from retailers and from not farmers at all. I think that's the thing for us all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Jackie. The question is answered and closed by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Evangelos Apostolos, who has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u71	I shall begin with the great problem of the liquidity that the rural area is facing. We have experienced a period of loss of the rural credit tool since the transfer, the graceful transfer, of the Agricultural Bank to Piraeus Bank. He stayed without a credit card. We have already introduced - and we have also signed a memorandum of understanding with the large, systemic banks - the process of granting the farmer's card with the main reference element of basic aid. It is already these days that the processes have begun and we believe that the banks will also respond to a tool that they are interested in, because they also have a guarantee - there cannot be a better guarantee than aid - but, at the same time, it is also a possibility of entering an area which, in fact, - than the evidence shows - has a development path of such a kind that can be the tool for the country's productive reconstruction. That's not all. What we are bringing to the draft law, which I told you we would give for consultation in the next few days - perhaps tomorrow - is the compulsory payment of fresh, sensitive products within a period of up to sixty days. It is incomprehensible what is happening today in the rural area to be the main creditor of all the stores - given that we have six, seven and eight days ending products - and to be paid with exchange-rate cheques seven, eight months. That'll stop. And, of course, in order to stop this, we also call on the Greek farmers not to be under pressure because, as you can see, pressure is being exerted on this. And that will only be possible when they cooperate. They should understand that synergy, especially in rural areas, is the biggest tool to deal with these situations. We also provide for a sanction procedure when this legislation is violated. It is a directive of the European Commission applicable to other countries and will apply to our country as well. From that point on, we must indeed see and monitor in particular how the institution of the approved trader is being applied, that the traders know that we will monitor them and that there will be sanctions there, because they are provided for. Above all, I would like to say, however, that it is time for farmers to comply and above all to take advantage of the framework of the cooperative organisations provided for by the law that we have voted on. It is time for all privileges, particularly those granted to producer groups, in relation to the rural development programme, to enter this process because it is a one-way road.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Minister for Rural Development. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they have previously participated in the educational program "Worker of the Republic" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, fourteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 149th Municipal School of Athens. The House welcomes them. Ladies and gentlemen, we have some questions that will not be discussed. The sixth question under number 612/17-3-2017, first question by the Member of the Greek Parliament, Mr Konstantinos Katsikis, concerning the payment of allowances from expropriations of property, will not be discussed due to lack of competence, as the Ministry responsible is the Ministry of Interior. The third, with number 616/20-3-2017, top-stage question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the adoption of a Presidential Decree on the recognition of professional rights of graduate engineers TEI, will not be discussed due to the absence of Minister Gavroglou abroad. The fourth question under number 618/20-3-2017, the second question by the Member of Parliament, Eitolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Moraitis, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the risk of the national network of Amphiochia - Lefkada - Preveza - Igoumenitsa, will not be discussed due to the absence of Minister Spirtzi abroad. The second question under number 2787/23-1-2017 by Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament I of the New Democracy. Nikita Kaklamanis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the management and exploitation of the real estate of the Ministry of Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, will not be discussed due to the absence of Mrs Ahchioglou abroad. The fifth question under number 617/20-3-2017 of the first cycle of the MP Magnesia of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Konstantinos Steerios to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject of "not the incineration of waste at the "AGET Hercules" Volos", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the relevant Deputy Minister and will be redefined another day for discussion. We move on to the debate of the fifth under number 593/13-3-2017 on the second time question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr. Georgios Georgios Georgantas to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the design for the abolition of the Antiquities of Kilkis. The question will be answered by the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr. Lydia Conniordos. Mr Georgios has the floor to develop his timely question for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, at the end of 2014, with the no.104, the establishment of the new Agency for the Ministry of Culture was approved. In the spirit of this new Agency, indulgences of antiquities have been created in every regional unit in the country. Thus, the Department of Antiquities for the Regional Unit of Kilkis, based in Kilkis, was founded, and its staff with seventeen were predicted. Some time ago we were informed of the new plan for the Organization of the Ministry of Culture, which we have seen and read, which unfortunately provides for some merging of antiquities, in the country is the truth, or three or four, if I remember well. One of them relates to the Antiquities of Kilkis, which is merged into the Antiquities of Thessaloniki. Minister, you understand that this issue raises a great deal of concern for Kilkis society in this regard: It is a service that was set up two years ago. It is a service, the feasibility and usefulness of which are given, as well as an archaeological museum there is in Kilkis and spaces where excavations have been carried out, such as in Europe or in the Palestinian area, where there is interest in the future - I imagine - from the Ministry's side to other studies. In any case, for a remote region, in which services operate in support of any cultural activity, I believe that their abolition and merger in Thessaloniki do not help them either in decentralisation, but it certainly does not help in a symbolism, at a level of morality, so that the inhabitants of these regions feel that the central administration does not do justice to them in relation to the rest. I will wait, Minister, for your answers as to whether this plan is really going to be implemented, and if so, for what reasons.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. The Minister for Culture and Sports, Mr Lydia Konordos, has the floor for three minutes to answer Mr Georgioda.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Georganta, in fact, in August 2014 the Directorate-General for Antiquities and Cultural Heritage is formed - apart from the central services, the special regional services and the public museums - by the regional services comprising fifty two inventions of antiquities. Amongst these, Kilkis was established, based in Kilkis, as you mentioned, and the Regional Unit Kilkis. I would like to remind you that the current Agency of the Ministry of Culture and Sport has been the subject of disputes, disputes and protests. There have been some changes that have been awkward and some changes that have been miserable. Administrative rationalisation, the interoperability of the public sector and the more efficient functioning of all public services is a priority of the Government and, in particular, of the Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction, with which we work closely. In the context of updating, improving and reforming all the Bodies, all Ministries, a special committee was set up in 2016 to prepare this new plan, which has been proposed. In this context, among other things, the merger, as you said, of regional services such as the FSA Grevenes with the FSA Kozani, the Ilia FSA with Zakynthos and the FSA Kilkis with the Thessaloniki FSA. However, this plan is still in a phase of consultation. The proposals and remarks of all the parties involved are complete and have not yet been accepted and fully integrated into the new Agency. Therefore, with a view to the proper functioning of all the services of the Ministry of Culture and Sport and a fundamental objective of protecting our cultural heritage in the most effective way possible, the proposals of local bodies are taken particularly and very seriously into account.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Minister. Mr Georgadas has the floor for his denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u77	Madam Minister, because of the subject of my question, and because of your capacity, I have indeed tried to keep a level in my position, without leaving anyone peak or reproach for this development that is evident. I am obliged, however, to say this: there is a feeling in the Kilkis society and in me, that the main reason why this merger is being sought is because this is a request for a number of officials who have to send this service to Kilkis who are staying in Thessaloniki, as it is avoided from going to Kilkis. Because there must be a continuation in public administration and I think much more in the Ministry of Culture and there must also be a total acceptance of its practices and choices - and indeed rules that work - I, in fact, would like your position today on this particular issue. I understand that this decision should be combined by many other factors. But the final responsibility is yours. We have a service that was set up just two years ago. In fact, there is a public building that was ready to relocate so that there are no rents on the part of the public and there is no cost for it. So it is not understandable why this merger should be made in a service which has now been created. If it had worked for several years and we saw that the reason and the feasibility for which it was created or there is some other superstitious need for these employees to move to Thessaloniki, to understand, to understand, to understand, to be said. But here, we have not been able to see the results from implementation since the previous government's decision was taken. So please really see it with the sensitivity that must be distinguished by a Minister of Culture - and much more so by you - and by the approach to the specificity I have given you, that it is an extreme area from which, indeed, all the structures that could help to upgrade the cultural level of the region are missing, but of course also on the basis of the same service, which I consider to be rich for the wider area of the Regional Unit of Kilkis. I would therefore like to see your position, Minister. So, do you prefer or do you not prefer that? I think it's good to hear some things, so we can all draw our conclusions. And, indeed, without any personal peak, as I said again, I really expect your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Georganta. The Minister for Culture and Sport will close with her reply, Mr. Lydia Conniordos. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u79	Mr Georgioda, it is clear that all these structures created need to be supported by the human factor. We also hear this parameter. But our primary care is the best and most effective protection of our heritage. As I said, it is clear that the content of the plan has not yet been adopted. We are at the stage of taking into account the different views and showing particular sensitivity to support for regional structures. We are particularly concerned about how our cultural heritage deals with local communities and local institutions. And we take this very seriously. We are very moved by the interest of the people who live and have embraced this development, namely, to create a centre that will protect our cultural heritage in Kilkis and take it very seriously. [[At this point, the fourth Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, takes over the presidential office.]] At the moment, however, until all the factors are taken into account, we cannot commit or announce something. However, it is very serious to consider.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u80	Thank you very much. We shall now proceed to the last time question. This is the first question under number 614/20-3-2017 of the first cycle of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister of Interior on the status of police officers. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr Nikolaos Toskas. Here, Mr Arachovitis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u81	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, progress is being made on the reorganisation of the regional offices of the Hellenic Police, which was completed in legislation with the a.d.7/2017. However, from this process, as the Association of Lakonia Police Officers has demonstrated since 23-2-2017, the issue of localisation is being raised. What do we got here? We have a provision of Law 1234/1982. Article 6 clearly states that police officers who were born, resident or resident in towns of less than twenty thousand inhabitants cannot serve in the city-based police station. And I'm telling the city because it's important. What does that mean? This means that with the restructuring of the services, as the Laconia policemen say, by merging the departments, a series of policemen who were serving in the neighboring or adjacent department will be forced to leave, change part and go to the nearest, possibly, miles away. This creates a problem both socially and operationally in particular. And here there is another inequality, Minister. In 1998 the Greek state, at the time of the invitation and recruitment of the border guards, gave precisely the identification premium. In fact, in 2008, when the responsibilities of border guards and special guards were homogenised, it gave them the same tasks and obligations. However, he created two separate categories in terms of identification. In other words, border guards and special guards could serve - since they had already been hired on a traceability premium - in the city where they were born and grew up to their eighteenths, or their own husbands, while those who had gone in the process of recruitment to the police could not serve. I would like here, Minister, to answer whether you have identified the problem and how you intend to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u82	Mr. Toska, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arachovitis, there is indeed Article 6 of Law 1234/1882 obsolete - which prohibits the service of police officers in towns of less than 20 000 inhabitants, since it is a place of origin of their own or their wife. The question, of course, and the question arises is what has happened so far, since all the towns of Laconia, as you rightly said, have a population of less than twenty thousand. So it is not something that has anything to do with reorganization, which is currently under way, and it has something to do with what has been going on so far. We see a contradiction in the application of the law and in the situation since the combination of municipalities and communities, the reorganisation of regional services, and since the control mechanisms of the Greek Police have also increased, which can control cases of localisation abuse, in order for some to achieve other things. I think that this provision has indeed been obsolete, which has existed since 1982. A lot of water has been running down the river ever since. A lot of things have been differentiated. The municipalities and communities with "Kallikrates" have been differentiated, they have joined, the reorganisation of the Greek Police comes in order to achieve better efficiency now. So, in order not to say much on this issue, we will table a legislative provision regulating this issue, because the current provision is obsolete and we will correct these conditions so that there are no such problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u84	Mr Arachovitis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u85	Minister, I am very pleased to see that you are responding to this problem, because what has happened so far is that we have not raised it in this question, namely how much the law - which, as you have said many times - was obsolete - was used to respond to modern needs and to respond to modern crime. The forms of crime in 1982, created by the law, with today's, are completely different. One key point is that at that time the law was referring to the city and not to the controlled or police area. I hope that the legislation that you have just announced to us will be laid down so that it will also be modern and social law operationally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u86	Do you want to say anything else, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u87	No, thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. We will enter legislative work, after we have had a temporary break for ten minutes, because I see that the rapporteurs, speakers and Parliamentary representatives are not in the Chamber for a vast majority. I would ask the secretariats of the parties attending the sitting to inform the parliamentary representatives, the rapporteurs and the speakers that they should come within a quarter to the Chamber so that we do not have any problems about what time we will end in the evening. The sooner we start, the sooner we'll be done. We're interrupting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u89	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: "Measures to reduce the cost of installation of high-speed electronic communications networks - Harmonization of legislation in Directive 2014/61/EU and other provisions". The above draft law was characterised by the Government as urgent and by the Co-Presponsible Committees for Public Administration, Public Order and Justice and Trade, in accordance with Rule 110 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, as a matter of urgency. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 16 March 2017 to discuss the draft law at a single meeting in principle, articles and all. To be perfectly precise, the Conference of Presidents decided to discuss the bill on Tuesday afternoon and Wednesday morning. But there was a sad fact that happened to Minister Pappa - his mother and Parliament died, expressing their deepest sympathy - and the turn changed. So we incorporated it on Tuesday afternoon and Wednesday morning in a full-day debate, which will start now and will go as long as necessary, until we are done and I think I will have the unanimous consent of this House on the procedure. I would like to inform you that seven colleagues have spoken to the committee. Even if we get to the number twenty, which I do not see, having taken a timeline of speeches with a relative tolerance, because they are, in principle, articles and amendments, logically around 16.00 to 17.00 in the afternoon, putting the time of the representatives and the rapporteurs and special speakers, we will be done. In our hand, then, is to be done, so that you can go for the holiday weekend in your election seats as well. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u90	So the House unanimously agreed. The records will be electronically. The record will be opened as soon as Mr. Katsis goes to Step and as soon as Mrs. Asmakopoulou comes down from Step. Mr Katsi, before I give you the floor I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs is tabling its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Under the Framework Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Mongolia, of the other part'. Here, Mr. Katsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my position with a more general reference to the drawing-up of national digital policy, and then I shall refer in detail to the provisions of today's bill. Digital policy and national digital strategy mean those actions that will shape the institutional framework, the terms and the incentives, so that we can develop and integrate technological achievements in the areas of information, telecommunications and networks. Together with policy making in research and innovation, we have the following medium- and long-term objectives: The first objective is to turn the country's productive model towards high-skilled areas, where we have the greatest competitive advantage compared to other countries because of the very good level we have in young scientists, for whom we are obliged to do everything, in order to stop forming our export capital. We need to involve these parts of society to contribute to this great effort both for the individual and for the collective interest. The second objective is to achieve digital convergence with regard to developed countries, which has never been achieved, so that we are twenty-six of the twenty-eight integrating new information and communication technologies, and also to exploit these technologies from all citizens. We will highlight this again and again, gentlemen of the counterpopulation, who have ruled for so many years without a plan to boldly reflect your idol in the mirror. Let me remind the citizens here who are listening to us that the present government is the first to set up two separate ministries, the Ministry of Digital Communications and Information Policy and the Ministry of Research and Innovation on these issues and from the communication and recruitment we have with young scientists, researchers and market players, small and medium-sized enterprises, etc., we receive very encouraging messages and offers. The third objective is digital policy to be the main accelerator for productive reconstruction and development of the country, as it is the umbrella that covers all other sectors of the economy. To reflect on how important this is, I shall mention three elements in relation to what has been heard in the committees and which have also been confirmed by the bodies. The first element is that for every 10% increase in broadband penetration in a country, an increase of 1% of Gross Domestic Product is created. Secondly, there is an increase in GDP by 0.3% for each doubling of the speed of broadband, while for every thousand new broadband connections there are eighty new jobs. So we all fully understand the need to draw up national digital policy, to which this draft law is incorporated, and I come immediately. As I said, our country is very low on high-speed networks. So there is a need for all Greek citizens to access, for nobody to stay behind and have access to the very high-speed broadband networks, understanding the importance of installing high-speed broadband in Europe and our country, but also to all citizens, to each and every individual. The installation ensures that the target is achieved by 2020, that all European citizens have access to online speeds of more than 30 Mbps and 50% of households have speeds of more than 100 Mbps, with the footnote that these speeds may already be conservative and that we aim at even higher speeds. With this Directive and its ratification in its integration, we are converging in achieving the objectives of the Digital Agenda. Just to understand the citizens and the people who are watching us, this bill opens the way so that our country can quickly move on to the development of new generation networks based on optical fibres, leaving the current limited capacity networks with homogeneous copper cables behind. To overcome these limitations on the copper grid is the necessary step, if we want to respond to the challenges of both the present and the future. This draft law also contributes to the achievement of the objectives of the 2016-2020 National Digital Strategy, the public consultation of which was completed on 21 November 2016 with the nearest body the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information. The transposition into national law of the provisions of this Directive by means of actions accompanying it and policies at Union level to provide better broadband coverage, as well as the reduction in the costs of installing high-speed electronic communications networks throughout the Union, contributes to the proper programming and coordination of projects, to the reduction of administrative burdens and to the digitisation of the public sector which, in addition to the reduction of costs for public administration, and to the provision of more efficient services to citizens, contributes to a digital leverage effect in all sectors of the economy. This draft law shall contain regulatory provisions aimed at facilitating cooperation between utilities with a view to entering new network operators for the use and installation of infrastructure materials for high-speed electronic communications networks, establishing certain minimum rights and obligations for the Union as a whole, in order to reduce the costs of their installation. A large proportion - it is well known - of the installation of the new generation networks and the replacement of optical fibre cables represents the cost of the work of the civil engineer. Indicatively, around 75% of the total investment is estimated. It is precisely on this that he comes to give solutions and answers to this draft law. What does that mean, practically? Just say it in words. If, for any body, for example, a TEKO or a local government organisation, a level 1 and 2 projects are carried out for networks and are excavated, the telecommunications companies will also be able to establish their own network along with the work already done without any additional cost of the initial projects. So we avoid what was happening to date, where network projects were carried out in the same place, but at different times, with the result that the citizen was in constant suffering in the face of a 'treat', as well as the increased costs that made it difficult to develop the networks of a new generation. In order to facilitate the coordination of technical projects, an obligation is created for operators carrying out or planning new infrastructure projects to have data on such projects through a single information point, i.e. a portal to be maintained by the Ministry of Digital Policy. It will include all synergies and planning of project execution as well as provision for the installation of high-speed networks and will obviously have a social, economic and environmental benefit. Each network operator shall, without prejudice to the provisions contained in this draft law, fulfil any request for access to its physical infrastructure. In the event of non-agreement, any of the bodies may request the intervention of the national dispute resolution body, which is the body which decides to resolve the dispute and, as such, the National Telecommunications and Post Commission, this Independent Authority shall be designated as such. The existence of high-level electronic communications networks as the end-user is necessary in order to achieve the objectives of the digital agenda, while ensuring technological neutrality, in particular with the physical infrastructure in the building, which will be adapted to high speeds. Therefore, all new buildings or those which have undergone major renovation should be equipped with a physical infrastructure such as this to enable end-users to connect to high-speed networks. I will make a reference to Article 13, which deals with a number of additional issues that are resolved, which concern terminology and clear definition of the responsibilities of the Ministry of Digital Policy, as well as interpretative issues in the harmonisation of electronic communications legislation. Actions relating, inter alia, to information, familiarity and education of citizens with new technologies are regulated. In addition, the proposed arrangements of the draft law are attempting to ensure the proper functioning of the National Telecommunications and Post Commission. This draft law fulfils our country's obligation to incorporate Directive 61/2014 into national law, including the update of the legislative framework. This update shall be fully regulated and simplified by the procedure for granting transit rights. In conclusion - because I do not want to mourn - ladies and gentlemen, the debate that took place in the committees over the last few days has shown us that the common place and the necessary consensus can be found, so that all the citizens of the country can go ahead with the development of the new generation networks, to contribute to the leverage of the economy, to a number of areas - because it is cross-sectoral in the whole economy - to create new jobs, to achieve digital convergence and to leave digital illiteracy behind, in which our country has been discredited by the previous governments. I call on all of you to vote in favour of the bill, as this way we will show that we do not need to set separate lines on issues of substance, but only on issues that can actually create controversy and it is very normal to discuss these at the level of the National Representation. But above all, it would be a good thing to avoid the moves and the phrases of impression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u92	We too, Mr. Katsy. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Eleftherios Venizelos High School of Chania (first section). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Until the new Republic of Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, which I call on you, Minister, to see the amendment by SYRIZA's fellow Members concerning the Ministry of Culture. I do not know if you can support it - I have read it and it is a very serious matter - or if Mrs Konordos should be told at some point to come and say whether or not she accepts it on the substance and not formally, because you are typically responsible. Mrs Asimakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have had an in-depth debate on the subject of the adaptation of legislation to this directive in committee. I think there is no reason to repeat the benefits of information technology for growth in the country's economy, health care, entrepreneurship, education. That is what the Minister said yesterday, and the majority rapporteur said it now. So let us not break open doors. I think we all agree on the great importance of this issue for our country. It is also well known that our country is a pig on these issues. I shall mention a few indicators which will not be pleasant. According to a recent report by the committee, Greece is among the last countries with regard to the broadband coverage of a new generation. For the objective that has been mentioned, namely that Europe reach 100% coverage with 30% Mbps by 2020, unfortunately we are at 36.3%, which is, of course, below the European average. In DESI INDEX, the well-known indicator, which shows where we are in 2017, of the twenty-eight countries we are twenty-seven in terms of connectivity, but also in terms of moving to the fastest connections, we are twenty-first in the use of the internet, twenty-third in the integration of digital technology and twenty-four in digital public services. I said, unfortunately, that this is not a good thing. That is why we must move quickly. If today, Minister, we agree with the incorporation of this Community directive into our national law, because, as the Commissioner responsible for Digital Economy and Society said, connectivity is a key prerequisite for Europe's digital future. We also agree with the statement by the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Ansip, who is responsible for the digital single market, that without first-class communication networks there will be no single digital market. So we need connectivity. And what do we need? We need this connectivity to be affordable to consumers and available everywhere. Therefore, harmonisation of our legislation with Directive 2014/16 of the European Union aims to take measures to reduce the cost of installation of high-speed electronic communications networks which will facilitate such installations and promote the joint use of existing physical infrastructure, to mobilise and facilitate more efficient installation of new physical infrastructure in order for the installation to take place at a lower cost. I conclude that New Democracy agrees with Part I of the bill, namely, Mr President, with Articles 1 to 12, because connectivity is a basic requirement for the country's digital future. Minister, I feel like I don't have your full attention. I certainly don't have your undivided attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u94	I'm looking after you, Mrs. Asmakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u95	Despite the fact that you claim, Minister, that a digital revolution has taken place and we must not lose the train and all these communal bigities that we hear and despite the fact that you and your rapporteur are taking care of the elements that I have just mentioned, you bring this directive in to incorporate it into our national law with a huge delay. I would remind you that under Article 13 of the directive this directive had to be incorporated into our national law as from 1 January 2016. We have been sent two times a warning letter from the European Commission, in March 2016 and on September 29, 2016, which finally gave us two months to adapt, and now we have March 2017. In fact, you're bringing it in with the emergency procedure. And I ask you: when did this matter become urgent, Minister? You know, in your position in committee - I told you - you have shown an exaggerated importance to maximize the fact that there is a positive approach by the party of Officerial Opposition and by other parties in terms of today's, which is your first legislative initiative in the new Ministry. The truth is that the New Democracy, the party that has put Greece into the European Union and which you are now defending, is not ideologically and simply ideologically opposed to the incorporation of a Community directive. I would remind you of your pre-political times when you were a strong opposition and voted against 'no' incorporation of Community directives which we brought to Parliament as a majority. We remain firm in both our ideology and our principles and our values and our commitment to the European orientation of Greece. On the contrary, even now that we've forgotten to tear the memorials and the "go back", Mrs Merkel, and I don't know what, you can't escape your two main features, which are no more than ideology and incompetence. Always, when we talk about something, I wonder what one of the two is. Ideal or incompetence? In this case, you are being delayed because of ideology, why don't you really think that you should support the private initiative and integrate the directive, so you didn't want to bring it? That's the one script: ideoscopy. Or is it just that you're not dealing with the issues of your ministry? Which one is it? Because the delay has now become the most characteristic feature of your administration. I cannot avoid an example of the delay in the closure of the second assessment. Will you now tell me what delay? We're talking about overreacting sometimes. I'm bringing an example from this bill. According to the European Commission, the rules that we now put on cost reduction will reduce the cost of high-speed internet development by 30%. Of course, you, Mr Papapas, recently in the 'Technopolis' on 16 March, said that the cost of network development was estimated to fall by 60% - 80% with this bill. What's that 2.5% more? Okay, two and a half times more. And so for the evaluation. Mr. Tsipras told us on 6 November 2016: “We are therefore closing in time and without discounts and without unnecessary obstructions the second assessment”. Mr. Tsakalotos said on 8 December 2016: “The second assessment is almost over.” On 1 February 2017, Mr Tsipras said: ‘The evaluation will be closed without any concessions to the authorities’. You, Mr Pappa, declared optimistic that the evaluation would be closed and without new measures. Mr. Tsipras again on 3 March 2017 said: "It is absolutely possible to do so by 20 March". The same, Mr Pappa, on 15 March 2017: "It will be completed soon". So on 20 February you told us that you brought the agreement that brought the end of austerity. Please, I am making the statements which I have just mentioned on the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the statements referred to above, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr. Poppa, you are known to be the Prime Minister's best ego. And for those who say your relationship is broken, and so on, I still haven't believed that. I think you have a specific role and you are the first to learn from politics both politically and strategically and on a communication level. Regardless of whether the Prime Minister had to build a super-ministerate with these three new secretaries in your measures, after the ERR and S.A. fiasco, with the dual aim of setting a little distance between you, at least for the eyes of the world, and allowing you to continue your key role that is this regiment to check the media with the digital strategy in your ministry and in your wallet for deafness, I want you to say to me: When will the evaluation be closed? Do you really understand the cost of delaying in any area, not just digital policy and what I'm going to refer to about your ministry? Generally, have you realised that we have been immersed in the recession, that insecurity has returned to the economy, that 4 billion euro deposits have left banks in the first two months of 2017? Have you realised that you have declared a payment stop, that red loans have plunged households, businesses, and affected the banking system? That the unemployed in the last five months have increased by a hundred and fourteen thousand, that the insurance breaks down with this unprecedented fiasco with the FBI? This is the cost of your governance. But it doesn't sweat your political ear. Be good. The chair's good. To go back to your department. Where's the Ministry's work, Mr. Poppa? Autopilot, the Department. There is still no presidential decree on how the three secretariats will work together. We have asked you a number of eighteen questions on national digital policy and I get answers - canned, copy-paste from your main text, which is very similar to ours, which we have handed over to you. And on 15 March I have tabled a very specific question and I expect a very specific answer on the approved projects: how much are they, when will they be, how much money are they, when will they get money on the market? You didn't answer me about the design for the 5G. You did not answer me to claim the spectral dividend from Greece. We do not know what happened the other day at the SEDDIF conference held in Athens. We ask you about 'CLEARS', you refer us to Mrs Gerovasili. I'm catching up with you because I know the answer is stable on all of this. The answer is the known one: We are to blame, we have given you burnt land! I also read the press release of your secretary in response to the interview I gave in Brussels yesterday. By the way, Minister, has this heresy paper finally come? I asked you to submit it to the committee yesterday. Today is an opportunity to testify to it in the Minutes. And as far as what we in our governance of digital policy are concerned, I am specifically speaking with numbers: We have increased the totals by EUR 287 million, the EUR 525 million contracts and the costs by EUR 217 million. This comparison is for the years 2012 to 2015. And I'm standing at the Rural Broadband. And I stand on this, because you are wandering around Greece, setting up communiqués on the issue of Rural Broadband, a project launched at the end of November 2013, within seven months - which is a record time for those who understand - has been compromised at the end of 2014, and it has ensured 160 million euros, which is also funded in the form of PPP, in connection with the installation and operation of broadband infrastructure in about five and a half thousand white rural and island areas, covering almost 50% of the Greek territory. That is the truth, ladies and gentlemen. And that's enough with the mocking. And that's enough, too, with your photographic devices and glassware. So I come to Part II of the bill. You have not answered me to the committee and we will not vote on these articles unless we have the following clarifications: Paragraph 3 of Article 13: Coordinate Greece's presence in space. I don't know what that is, Minister. Is that you have abandoned the project for the famous Space Service and are you taking the coordination? What about the Observatory, with the GDR, with the responsibilities that exist there? How will this work? With what resources? With what personal? What's the target? With what strategy? Paragraph 7 of Article 13: You shall regulate the issues of satellites by direct assignments. Why do you do this when the existing legal framework provides for other things? Why this exception, Minister? I expect an answer to the House. Paragraph 10. Serve - so it looks photographically - your employees at the General Secretariat of Information where they are serving, giving extensions. Explain to us: Is this something different? I also told you - and I told you in committee - we do not want to look petty, but by looking every day at 'DENMARK', I see that you and you and Mr Cretzis and the officials: Barcelona, Paris, Brussels, Stockholm, Malta, Nice, Prague, Geneva. Yes, sir. Take trips, but you are judged by whether you are effective and if you bring something, which is related to the public interest, which promotes your portfolio, the digital strategy, the interests of the country. We can find out what you were doing on all these trips, what you did at 'THALES ALENIA SPACE'? Mr President, the last point I shall raise is the provisions on the EBRD. We agree with these provisions and have been placed. I am referring to the fact that it emerges beyond your idealism and from your inability and your excess hypocrisy. Suddenly it took your pain for the independent authorities. You got the pain after the ERC, you got the pain for the EMCDDA. I am presenting in practical terms the findings of the prosecutors of Athens, who completely breaks down Mr Spirtzi's speculation and accusations as regards the great alleged 'DIGEA scandal'. That goes too! [[At this point the Member, Mrs Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Stop attacking the independent authorities, because they stand in the way of your statusal culture, either trying to remove them responsibilities, or slandering their members. I hope that the 'DIGEA' thing has become a lesson. You have tabled an amendment today for the ELTAs, for the universal service. We asked you a question about the universal service. Your predecessor, Mr. Spirtzis, was not a great "famous" of the universal service and torpedoed the whole situation. You come today to try to soothe it on the basis of the transitional provisions by 2015. And I ask you: Since 194-2015, what is going on, Minister? It would be interesting to hear about the ELTAs, because if you take into account what you do in PPC, I think you do the same in ELTAs. So tell us what you intend to do with the compensation mechanism, what will apply to 2016-2017 that is not provided for in the amendment? As I said, Mr President, we will be positive in principle, positive in terms of Articles 1 to 12 of Part I, and if we do not receive clarification from the Minister, we will be negative in the articles in Part II. Because we are positive, I close it by saying: in the committee the Minister spoke very much and tried to highlight the issue that there is a consensus on the subject of the digital strategy. I am telling you, Minister, that you do not mislead our positive attitude to consensus. Consent is nothing simple. Consensus is not something one gives on the first date. It is something that requires a relationship that is built on the basis of honesty and on the basis of credibility. And in no way have you shown sincereness, nor credibility, obviously, to us as a Qualified Opposition, so do not expect consensus on the measures to be taken. The negotiation product should be carried to your shoulders by yourself. Our consensus says you don't care. The most important thing is that you have lost - and it is clear - the consent, in the way you govern, of the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Ioannis Maniotis asked me for permission for an urgent job that happened to him. But we won't waste time. We will go to the next special speaker from the Golden Dawn, Evangelos Karakostas. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. If any of our compatriots were to follow the course of discussing this draft law from meetings in the committee responsible up to now, they would conclude that the vote on this draft law will launch the Greek economy, invade the country's investment of billions of euros, thousands of jobs will be opened up and a significant part of the problems of Greek citizens will be solved. These, of course, belong to the sphere of fantasy, both liberal and Marxists, with the latter incline to overcome the first. The reality is quite different from that which was attempted in the debate on the draft law. The Greek economy because of the criminal policy, both today and the previous government, is being brought to a slow and tortureful death. Therefore, the triumphs and bilirums of the SYRIZA - ANEL government bring us to mind the respective triumphs of the Samara - Venizelos government for the famous free Wi-Fi. So - and I wish we were wrong, but unfortunately we are not mistaken - as the PASOK and New Democracy were advertising free Wi-Fi, so the SYRIZA - ANEL Government is presenting today's draft law incorporating a Community directive and reducing the costs of installing high-speed electronic communications networks as a way to pave the way for future economic development and economic development, but which will never come. And it will never come because your Government is simply guaranteeing total failure in every policy area. We explained during the debate in committee that the Golden Dawn clearly and considered the organization and development of the digital infrastructure in the country to be important, clearly and seek to facilitate the processes that will enhance the productivity of Greek enterprises and move towards the overall support for substantial measures for the development of the Greek economy for the benefit of the Greek people at all times. However, the high-speed networks alone do not in any way bring about the much-needed growth of the economy, as the government and the other parties are trying to convince us to do so. Well, then, the high speeds of communications networks for businesses only there is a major problem, and soon there will be no business and cause of this development, of course, are not the low speeds of the networks, but the counterproductive policy of the memoranda imposed on the Greek people. The provisions of this draft law note the total lack of reference in any form of word or concept of State control and supervision, in any form or concept of national interest, as the basic and critical view, of the basic and critical criterion for the adoption of political decisions. We therefore ask again a crucial question: How are we to ensure adequate control of these digital infrastructures and their operation by the Greek state and its competent services? In the draft law in particular in Article 6, we read that network operators have the right to negotiate technical project coordination agreements with operators that provide or are authorised to provide electronic communications networks in order to install high-speed electronic communications networks. From the above, - I repeat - technical projects relating to critical national infrastructures may be excluded by a joint ministerial decision. And here is the fundamental difference in the approach to the issue between the Memorandum Marxists and Liberals and us nationalists. For us nationalists, technical projects relating to critical national infrastructures cannot be excluded, but must be excluded. We proposed that as Golden Dawn during the discussion in committee, the Authority should be asked to listen to the bodies, so that we and the Greek citizens can be informed of specific essential issues relating to the security and protection of personal data. You have avoided it badly, proving in fact that the reservations and issues we have submitted to the committee are based on perfectly true facts. It makes it clear that the operators of digital networks in our country as well as other services and public goods, who will provide public communications networks and physical infrastructure to provide what is provided for in the proposed draft law, will be private capital, domestic and international. The question has never been answered, as to whether the Greek Armed Forces and the Security Body will have their own autonomous, independent and therefore secure digital network. So let each one draw his conclusions. This, however, is one of the main reasons for this, and rather the most important one, for which we radically disagree with draft laws such as this one, which attempts to introduce regulations and incorporate a Community directive into internal legislation, without the necessary security margins being clearly defined in order to defend our national interests. What is the government doing in practice? As you and those who ruled before you, the basic infrastructure for the development of the Greek economy to foreigners and strong domestic economic interests, with typical examples of the airports sold to the Germans, the railways sold to the Italians, the management of the waste, which was given to your national contractor, so in this case you are paving the way for the sale of digital infrastructure. This is what this is about, and you triumph, as you have done many times in the past, when you have delivered basic infrastructure to the private operator, giving the basic control that a sovereign state ought to have. We have also indicated in the debate in committee as an example of the attitude taken by the Russian state, which has made one of the largest online networking companies, the dilemma to accept the extremely protective requirement for Russian citizens to limit the availability of their personal data, strictly within the Russian territory or otherwise to leave the Russian territory. As it turns out, the Russian Government is working and acting in the interest of the Russian state and the Russian people, contrary to your government which serves not the interests of the Greek state and the Greek people but those of the multinational companies and the domestic oligarchy of wealth. To sum up, the development of the networks and the digital infrastructure of our country will be done in terms of a free market, with what this implies to final consumers. We also found the supposed benefit that Greek citizens had from the free market for communications and energy up to now, where they did not really benefit from the alleged free competition that one would expect, with the fees and charges of the respective services to remain at high levels. In addition, the Minister admitted to the committee responsible for drafting the bill that the aim is to facilitate cooperation between public utility operators with a view to entering new network operators for the use and installation of infrastructure materials for high-speed electronic communications networks. In other words, the aim is to further liberalise the already free market in telecommunications, at the expense of national security and consumer pockets, but always in favour of private capital. Golden Dawn, as has been demonstrated in the past, is firmly against the practice of the Memorandum governments, as it firmly believes and immobile, that the specialities of our country require the development, shaping and maintenance of a purely national policy in the field of communications, which we consider to be of the utmost importance for the maintenance and consolidation of our national sovereignty, the development of our national economy, the prosperity and progress of the Greek people. For these very reasons, which we have explained above, the Golden Dawn voted against this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u98	So do we. The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Ioannis Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as shown in his explanatory statement, today's bill is the natural continuation of Law 4070/2012 of a memorandum, namely the Law of New Democracy and PASOK. And that's all he says. What's important? Urban governance managers may change, but not the central political direction and strategy of urban power. What is the contents of the draft law that we are debating today in plenary yesterday and yesterday in committee and, indeed, with the SYRIZA's dearness to the urgency procedure? The twelve of its thirteen articles transpose and incorporate into Greek law Directive 2014/61/EU of the European Union, after of course n. 4070/2012, hence the need to update and adapt this law in line with the Euro-Union strategy for the telecommunications sector which is constantly evolving and rapid. The Thirteenth article of the bill entitled 'Other provisions', as well as the extensive annexes contained in the bill, constitute the tail and the necessary complement of the Community directive. It refers to, they serve, and these are not excluded from any positive points of Article 13 for workers in the National Telecommunications and Post Commission. What's the aim of this bill? He is written wide - widely in his title. In addition to the harmonization with the Community directive, it states: 'Measures to reduce the cost of installation of high-speed electronic communications networks'. Measures to reduce the entrepreneurial costs of monopolies in the sector, where the telecommunications sector is now fully involved. And these monopolies are going to gain from lowering costs. On the contrary, people's households will be charged with the extra cost of building the digital technology infrastructure in every new building today and in all the old buildings, possibly tomorrow, in accordance with Article 7 of the bill. The bill, that is, attempts a forum within the framework of the so-called liberalisation of telecommunications, the basis of the privatisation of the sector and the facilitation of the even greater profitability of the business groups involved in it. So, of course and next, they were representatives of the Telecommunications Association to rub their hands out of joy, since, as they said yesterday in the Board of Directors, the bill serves the footage of their businesses and moves, as they have said, in the right direction. And since the appetite comes, the same business representatives have not failed to indicate any further changes to the bill - always in their interest - such as the drastic reduction in the amount of the guarantee letter of execution, the rapid resolution of the differences that arise and, above all, the rapid overcoming of the obstacles to local government which fears, as the business representatives have said, the political cost and that binds them. Immediately, it was also the Minister responsible who, within a few hours, met most of the companies' demands to one or the other. In fact, he defended the Minister in his position yesterday and promised to speed up the procedures for the creation of the necessary technical infrastructure even through the PPP. In order to avoid any doubt, that is to say, who this urban state serves as a priority. It would be reasonable and expected that, if the Minister himself listened to the committee meeting, he would confess to the final bill - and also to the original bill - that this was written in a spirit of absolute cooperation with the companies concerned, or if he listened to the SYRIZA rapporteur playing the bill, on the grounds that the market so much wanted to do so. After all, how can the spirit of consensus not be manifested between the urban parties, who welcomed and voted in favour of the bill with relief? What does that look like? But, of course, what other than the strategic coexistence of these political forces - government and opposition - on the capitalist path of development which the European Union is planning and overseeing in the light of the interests of capital? Of course, there was also a slight relative grievance from this opposition to the government over the late draft law and some mild intersections in the sharing of responsibilities for the country's digital delay. Eventually, however, all of this retreated forward in the consensual climate that prevailed. The New Democracy, in fact, was shouting and shouting about when, at last, the first money will fall on the market in the telecommunications sector, as it has said. And this money, as it is known, is always aimed at supporting business groups. On the other hand, government MPs are fighting in their talks about the technological gap of Greek businesses. The only thing that concerns them is, of course, not the thousands of self-employed in small businesses, which government policy is massively destroying. Some other governmental and non-parliamentarians - even the Minister - invite farmers to the era of digital agriculture, an invitation addressed, of course, to the large farmers of the large rural capitalist farms and not to the poor and medium-sized farmers who reap them the sickness of the European Union's common agricultural policy and government policy. So you all agree that telecommunications and communication should be a profitable commodity in the hands of business groups and not a social right. But then you cannot talk about universal access to digital technology, which, because of costs, is forbidden by extensive popular strata, which your policy is pushing them further and deeper into poverty. Does the application of telemedicine, for example, to which you are referring, justify your policy? Indeed, the use of the Internet in health, through telemedicine, naturally multiplys the possibilities for the health coverage of the whole population by acting complementaryly and complementaryly within a sufficiently staffed, free, state-of-the-art health system, even allowing complex medical operations in remote areas. Such a health system, however, as has been proved historically, presupposes socialist conditions, where health is treated as a social commodity and not as an extremely expensive commodity. Contrary to the current conditions of the domination of capitalists, exploitation relationships, telemedicine is also used as a vehicle to further trade in health, to increase the profitability of health groups, to drastically cut state spending, by abolishing regional health services and replacing them with telemedicine. This results in isolated parts, even in rural doctors being replaced with a telemedicine connection, which naturally does not even meet the needs. Another example of trade. Does the promotion of e-commerce not speed up concentration in a number of sectors by dismantling and destroying small businesses? Eventually the beneficiaries of the promotion of online trade are not the large groups that control the Internet and the relevant know-how, the banking groups that sell their credit products and the large commercial groups? Any respectable - and indeed respected - savings of resources resulting from electron trade does not ultimately result in a fall in the prices of goods but in an increase in the profitability of groups controlling e-commerce. What do these examples show? But what other than the antisocial nature of a system, capitalism, which trades and subjugates it to the only law that knows, in profit, distorts it socially. This is why the downsizing technological developments in the telecommunications sector have not only been exploited and exploited for the benefit of the popular majority but instead have been the levers to evacuate the profitability of industry's majorities at the expense of this popular majority. And in this pursuit of capitalist profitability - you know it very well - no brass can finally enter. All the supervisory authorities of the state, whatever rules you lay down, and if you legislate, these lead to sooner or later simple trolleymen on the wild avenue of capitalist competition, since the hunting of capitalist profit knows neither limits nor barriers. Ladies and gentlemen, what does experience finally show, from all this since the 1990s, a policy of liberalisation and privatisation in the telecommunications sector? Did they win the popular mattresses or did they get hurt? Today's reality answers. The monopolization of the telecommunications market in our country by three, four, counted on fingers - large private companies - as a result of, of course, of wild competition - on the one hand, the cost of telecommunications services for local households and, on the other, the labour relations and wage rights of workers in this sector in the situation of the jungle. Only a visit to the call centers otters is enough. Our universal and fundamental criterion is the fulfilment of combined and modern popular needs and of telecommunications - so we consider the JRC and this bill - whether cheap and universal communications are guaranteed for everyone, whether the confidentiality and protection of personal life is ensured, whether the labour relations and working conditions of workers in this sector are protected and whether the health of the inhabitants is protected, whether the environment is protected. None of this! The bill's class mark is in favour of capital, providing additional facilities and promoting group projects and designs based on their own profitability, which, of course, is objectively counterfavourable to popular needs. For example, the promotion of wireless fourth and fifth generation networks does not become an absolute safeguard for their non-hazardous to popular strata. On the contrary, new sources of radiation - perhaps less power, but other frequencies - and at a much shorter distance will be installed much easier with this draft law, and in Article 4, workers will also be charged with additional costs for the mandatory construction of high-speed connectivity elements. The real question, ladies and gentlemen, is not whether or not we want broadband and digital development in the country. Of course we want it before all the Communists. The real question is under what political and social conditions this will be. In other words, broadband and digital development by whom and for whom? Who and on what basis does it decide on the priorities? Who pays and who's fruiting the lion's portion of the benefits? The majority or business groups? The bill, the government, all urban parties, respond with one mouth: 'The groups'. That is why the JRC is voting against both the bill in principle and the articles. If they want the people's layers to see sunshine in their fate in the digital era, which began, if they too want to work for their own current needs, then they have to fight for the radically different way of development, where the concentrated means of production will be social - that is, their own - ownership, their own function and they will be centrally planned within the socialist economy. Then and only then will the Single Telecommunications Agency have cheap, easy, fast, safe and universal access to communication, new knowledge, information and entertainment via the Internet. Only then can full and stable work be ensured, only then can the increase in productivity be exploited to continuously improve the situation of the working class and people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u100	Mr Athanasios Papachristopoulos, special speaker of the Independent Greeks, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr President. I always listen with respect - and I mean it - to the views of the Communist Party. There is a reference point I will agree with, namely, that today - as few people as ever - very few - according to the last Oxfam poll of eight tycoons - have assets as much as the world's poorest three and a half billion. That's a reality. That's why I can't respect or at least listen to what the JRC sometimes says. But I do get away from this, and I have the following point of view. I want to remind you that a knife can buckle and be useful, but it can even kill. A TV can say goodbye, but it can keep up to date. I say this because I have said so to the committee, but I would like to repeat it, when the first machines first appeared in the industrial revolution, some workers thinking they would lose their jobs, go into the factories and destroy them, the well-known flowerers and the luscism of that time. Today we know they were wrong. What do I mean? The next revolution after the industrial revolution at the beginning of the last century is where we live. It is the computer revolution, e-government and the digital age. These go together, you know, so we don't confuse them. In how we use this data, there I am differentiated from other points of view, and I say that we have a lot of work to do, because we are in a situation of infancy. No one has said that all the problems will be solved by magic, but we have to adapt to the new reality. And whether we want it or not there are many prejudices. And they have all the world's own. However, I would like to refer to a statement made by the Chancellor of Austria, which I was pleased to hear. He said that beyond the balance sheets, bank accounts, offshore etc., you know, there are people. A man who has fought until the last minute, so that a Chancellor does not become a Chancellor in Austria, and I believe that at the last minute the whole world of Austria has helped this thing. That is where I want to refer and say: In our hand is how to get in and how to use the new digital age. I'm going to report to my friend Mimi Androulakis. Twenty years ago, he made a show every Friday. It is an illuminated, in my opinion, mind that impressed me when I listened to him and watched him every Friday with a journalist, where what is happening today almost knew about it and said it. And I was glad, because a mind coming from the Left - and his goodness - almost mathematically said we'd do everything with a device, etc. Today we are facing this reality and I think it is our duty to make the best use of it. This draft law does nothing more and nothing less than opens the door to digital reality. I do not want to scrape wounds or return back, but I am obliged, after what I have heard from my respected colleague from the Vice-President, to recall the following. In fact, digital, you know, age of e-government in the information revolution is not a two-year history - I will repeat it - but a conquest of the last forty years. Many countries entered this reality thirty years ago, twenty-five years ago, twenty years ago. But they got in. And some of them, like Estonia and Lithuania, which were not even countries, when we were members of the European Union, of the then EEC, have revolted using the digital age. So I want to ask some rhetorical questions. What prevented previous governments from reaching the level of electronic payments and collecting VAT, not having tax evasion? It is something that has happened over the days of this government. What was blocked by the multi-purpose card, the national ID system that we also voted on in the Mobility Act, which enables all public services to be dealt with quickly, which we have also voted on? What prevented them from applying the 'one-stop shop', where we need not three and four months but more than six and more than thirty-three signatures to set up a company? And that was voted, you know, for our day. And because I'm fair, I fought for e-prescription against my party and against those who then fought against it. It happened before us, and it was right. No objections. It is still waiting for us - it is very important - e-justice. We all know we've had incredible delays for years. We see cases that started ten years ago and ended yesterday. I'm not talking about the known case. I'm generally speaking now. This one has to stop once. E-justice is called and is in the spasm, and I think that's something that might be bothering us in the next few months. Also, the e-House where a man is not required to live somewhere to come to invest in our country. In America there is online governance. The citizen can control at any time what a government plans, what he wants to do. It's all posted. Let us see, in other words, what we are talking about today, I will add the electronic invoices - we all know how much counterfeit invoices are on the market - which is at the door and I think it will be implemented very soon. Electronic smuggling systems; Thousands of millions are lost. That's what the bill says right now. I'm saying it's a first step. We didn't say we solved any problems. Fighting, adjusting to this new era. And I don't want to see any misery or what happened, I just want to give two examples. While, in fact, there was legislation - it had been legislated by a previous government - yet while, let us say, the provision in the legislative framework that was in existence, a procedure for the granting of rights to cross electronic communications networks, within 30 days was obliged to take a decision, etc., do you know how much this is going to take? Eight months. So do we want to adapt to the new reality? I think so. The second example. Digital record. The only companies that had been written are communications companies. No one else. Water, infrastructure, natural gas, construction of any relationship. These must be done once and for all. I still want to say this. It is very important to understand that we must have the consent of the citizens and, in particular, the decentralised citizens. Because these services, these optical fibers once didn't know what they were, and now we're at 4G and we're talking about 5G in a very short time. Unbelievable speeds! We're not talking about distances anymore, we're talking about gigabytes, about gigabytes society. So it's a new reality, which too many of us -- and I'm putting myself in -- we may not be well aware. We have a sacred obligation and we have no luxury for misery, objections, controversy, etc. I mean, it's a bill, which I think opens doors and literally sends the country somewhere else, for those, really, wanting to escape misery, for misery. Because we can't even make tanks or make good cars. We cannot, as Estonia and Lithuania could not, and at the moment they have development, which would be envyd by the most advanced countries. They appreciated this digital age very quickly, which is related to IT and e-government. I don't want to say any more. I think it's a bill station. We should all hug it. We can make a lot of suggestions to improve it. What else can I say, when I know that five or six thousand settlements far away or two and a half thousand remote places will have the potential of optical fibres? Is that something that doesn't say anything about us right now? I listened very respectfully to the bodies that had come to the committee yesterday. I want to say that I have had a terrible impression of two elements, and I want to repeat them. Firstly, 4% of GDP is the five thousand three hundred companies involved in the electronic, IT and digital age, so that we do not get confused, where at the moment there are two hundred and sixty thousand workers. Some people lose their jobs, I know. Some young people, however, find work there and keep growing. I would like to remind you again of the number I told the committee and I would like to repeat it. Every time I have a 10% increase in broadband penetration in a country, GDP is growing by 1%. And when the speed of broadband is doubled, we have an increase in GDP of 0.3%. It's a very important part, therefore. For every thousand new broadband connections we have jobs for employment, which is of great concern to us and they are all wondering how we are going to hit unemployment, what we are going to do. Here's one step strong. I conclude by saying again that we may expect tourism, which is the steam engine of growth, to be around 25 billion this summer and will do well. But we are indifferent to the 16 billion - I am not saying much, I say 16 billion - by 2020? And just for the fact that we could earn at least 5 billion from cost savings, 5 billion from the increase in production that is a direct result and tens of billions from the fact that the result is multiplierous in the economy, when we establish this thing, are we indifferent? I mean, then, that in front of us is this era. In our hand is to handle it properly and not other negatism, not other catastrophe, not any other devaluation of reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u102	The reason for this is the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr Ioannis Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, we are not discussing the Convention of the century. We are discussing a current incorporation of a current directive, so that we can all land in the sizes of the subject that we are discussing. It is a Community directive that we at political level at the respective Council of Ministers in 2014 supported and improved it. We agree. What does he say in two words? It says that private telecommunications service providers will make synergies between themselves and with the municipalities, in order for cables - optical fibres passing through - to have no over-costs or over-costs towards the citizens of local communities. This is, of course, a positive element, because it helps and facilitates the expansion of the new technology, particularly for the networks over 30 Mbps, the broadband high-speed. Now you will allow me to comment on what is happening on our wider political horizon and what is going on with the negotiation. We've got one more delay. Again late after 90 minutes, and the worst of all is that the coach doesn't have a plan in his mind. No one knows, I imagine the ministers don't know either, but certainly the Greek people don't know what the government's planning for this delay, which most likely will end up in the full tradition of the defeat that Mr. Tsipras used to do. And it will be the tradition of a loser, who will be the loser who has signed two memos. There has never been a government that has signed two memos. Mr. Tsipras signed the third Memorandum of Tsipras - Varoufakis, and now has agreed and will prejudge Memorandum 4, on what will apply in the country after 2018, 2019 and 2020, and even without funding. Finally, the show "Radio Arvyla" to "AND1" was right. Remember this sketch, which showed Mr. Tsipras with Janus' faces, how he plays hero on the internal political scene, that he allegedly negotiates heroicly, and how slavely he treats lenders. And I say that, because I have a deep aesthetic disagreement with what is happening today. The Government of Tsipras was elected in January 2015, saying that this abundance, the Troika, will not again step on its feet in the Greek Ministries. That is why we will not see them in our Ministries, we will see them at the luxurious Hilton Hotel. Acceptable. After the government chooses it, it's done. After that, we had a new development. The Greek ministers, after not making any difference with the Hilton meetings, began to go directly to the Eurogroup - and one and two and three ministers - in order to convince the lenders, for what they want to negotiate. The troika is back sometime after February 20th. We had bibrains and no papers triumphs from the Maximos Mansion, but after a few days the troika left and said that it would never come back. And what is the Greek Government doing now? The Greek Government itself goes to Brussels hotels now and beggs the troika to accept what the government claims to be in Athens in any case, in order to negotiate with the Greek Government. This in no way honors the government of any European country, much more than a country that is seven years in recession. And since the great theme of the next weekend in Europe will be the celebration of the sixty years of the Treaty of Rome, we from this position from the official step of the Greek Parliament, as a Democratic Reconciliation, want to state that we disagree fully with the Europe of many speeds which is one of the scenarios, perhaps the most prestigious that has been proposed, but also with the Europe of the so-called multiple options proposed by Mr Tsipras. We believe that our country must have a clear, clear strategy, more Europe, the progressive Europe of the peoples, what Jacques Delors said, namely that we want a democratic Europe of national states. That is why he alone has a duty to fight against the Greek Government and let him leave all the other options. Minister, before I crossed the bill's body, I'd like to go to another topic. You tabled an amendment to the ELTA amendment for services of general economic interest for 15 million a year. The accounts of the ELTAs in 1913, '14 and '15 have been booked EUR 50 million. There is one point here, which you need to answer, how you deal with it. When own funds are below a limit, then on the basis of the legislation, there is the question of company bankruptcy. I'm saying something very simple. The government, today in tabling this amendment, must respond to the national Parliament for this: The submission of this amendment means that the ELTAs will continue in their balance sheets to write the 50 million and we will see at some point what will happen or disappear from their financial figures, so things will change. Here, Minister, a very clear answer is required. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out this: it can be that the legislation we are discussing today is a simple incorporation of a current Community directive, but the general framework within which this directive is being developed is incredibly serious. Europe currently has a sovereign union, a union of banks that support the currency, the euro, incomplete, incomplete, and complete economic and political union. At the same time, however, it is struggling for a second union, other than banking, for energy union, in order to get rid of imports of mineral resources from third countries outside the European Union. There is also a third vision, the so-called digital union, this general context in which a small stone is the current directive, which we are discussing today. Yes, digital union can and must be a vision of European citizens and European peoples. One proof of my reasons, of my allegations, is that while in the previous mandate of the European Commission the German Commissioner chose to have the energy portfolio, today Germany has chosen the German Commissioner to have the digital economy portfolio. This means that, at least, Europe's strongest economy sees a wide range of investment and jobs in this market, and we fully agree on that. Indeed, estimates speak of 415 billion euros a year and create hundreds of thousands of new jobs in the Member States. But - I note this - and, Minister, if you have goodness in your position, I would like an answer - to the new technologies, robotics, the whole transition, the fourth industrial revolution certainly brings incredibly positive elements to the daily lives of citizens, to the economies and to the creation of new jobs, but at the same time it also creates a huge number of unemployment. It comes out of unemployment people who, until new technologies are introduced, were working manually. We in the large family of European democrats and socialists have said that it is a priority for European social democracy, for active employment policies in those areas where new technologies create a great deal of employment. I would like to see how the Greek Government tackles this issue so that the negative effects of the introduction of new technologies are minimised. It is clear that the amendment - and I repeat - supports it - at least most - is a directive, which is also our creation at the Council of Ministers of 2014. Let us make something clear, too, ladies and gentlemen, which I have said in committee. I am one of those who are not happy with how previous governments, over the last 15 years, handled the issue of new technologies and the introduction of new technologies, particularly in public administration. We lost the bet, and we lost it. Efforts have been made and I will say about them. But we must have multiple speeds. I am very interested to stress - especially from this Step - that mobile technologies in 2016, at global level, contributed 4.4% to global GDP, a total budget of 3.3 trillion dollars. And, of course, over the next few years, it is estimated that 60% of the world's population will be mobile users. So we're talking about something very important. But now I come to land in how today's government even the right ones it has found, it destroys them. I will tell you, ladies and gentlemen, two examples. In the second half of 2014, we implemented two of the largest administrative reforms in the country. The first reform was what we call 'electronic town planning'. That is to say, instead of the citizen or engineer going to town and doing everything we know is done several times in towns, we have formed an electronic platform open to engineers, open to towns, through which an open web platform - digital, online - was submitted to the building licence, control of the permit from the town hall, so that with transparency using new technologies and without anyone having to go to the city's office, the process of building or controlling illegal buildings throughout the country. "He ran" for six months pilots at several city offices. It was necessary to issue a joint ministerial decision, which we handed over in January 2015 ready for signature, so that it could be fully implemented throughout the country. After two years, this famous joint ministerial decision, which would implement an implementation that has been "run" with a complete success for six months, is still awaiting signature by your fellow ministers, Minister for Digital Policy. And I'll say a second negative experience. One of the huge problems of the country's investment climate of investors is that they are slow to get the famous environmental permits. What did we do? We gave him all the legislation. We've changed twenty-three laws. We signed and published twenty-three new presidential decrees and joint ministerial decisions with another philosophy. The philosophy is: "We do not want you to present us with any more papers and studies. We trust you. You'll sign us a responsible statement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, give me some time. I'm not gonna use my dentistry. If you say falsely, you'll be severely punished, and we'll shut you down. But first we trust you. At the same time, your proposal, your application, we post it on the Internet, an open geographical information system, an open platform open to every citizen, and for everyone to know what business actions are taking at home." And we posted this platform on the Ministry's site. If you come in, Minister, if you put one of your partners in, you'll see that this platform has been downloaded from the Ministry's website. So I say that even those good things you found, you had to carry on with them, improve them, upgrade them, make them even better. And I'm saying that for that. Ladies and gentlemen, HORIZON 2020 is a large, ambitious European Union programme with a budget of EUR 60 billion, which supports competitive projects of new technologies applications for all over Europe. I want to ask you, Minister. What cooperation does your services have with the Directorate-General for Research and Technology under the Ministry of Education but which is the central body for supporting innovation and new technologies in the country? How much money together have you agreed that they will be invested in the country, in order for newly-born businesses, innovative enterprises to be able to join this major programme, 'HORIZON 2020'? To conclude, I must tell you that, of course, the smart cities that are the great vision of all the mayors of the country, but also the internet of thinks, where all the appliances of our homes will be interconnected with a single system in order to practically neutralize our consumption and time and energy from such uses, are certainly a next development of the national economy and of the daily living of our homes. What exactly has happened from the government's side in recent years?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u104	Please finish, Mr. Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u105	Yes, Mr. President. For several mayors, Trikala, Heraklion and other cities have entered the logic of smart cities. But they find closed doors when they try to find funding. And to end with the 'Rural Broadband' programme, what we have financed with EUR 201 million, so that the approximately seven hundred thousands of inhabitants of the Greek province in five and a half thousands of settlements can make use of the new technologies. Minister, this programme has been done by us with a bad instrument, what you detest as government, public-private partnerships, so-called PPPs. But today these EUR 200 million have enabled the seven hundred thousand inhabitants of the Greek province to enjoy the advantages of broadband and high-quality networks. Will you continue in this direction, or will you retreat, and turn back to what so far throughout the government, that the state will have to do everything? I would very much appreciate, in order to conclude, and I am presenting for the Minutes, whether we had the answer to the question we have tabled as soon as possible on how the absorption of the EUR 450 million in the new programming period, which belongs to your competence, is evolving on the issues of digital technology. [[At this point, the Member of Parliament, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u106	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty students and students and two teachers from the (1st Eleftherios Venizelos Gymnasios Venizelos II). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We arrive at the end of the special speakers, calling to Step by Mr. Ioannis Saridis from the Centroon Union. Here you go, Mr. Saridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, all Greeks understand and recognize how important it is that a man should not be left behind in his life. That is why today's bill is of particular interest to our youth, which is surely understood much better than all of us, the importance of what is being discussed by European Directive 61/2014 and which, after having adapted it as much as possible to Greek data, we will incorporate it by voting in Greek legislation today. In the first twelve articles of the bill which, contrary to Article 13, also received public consultation last year in May, there is a lot of talk of terms and concepts such as the broadband and speed that it offers. As previous colleagues have said, the European objective is to have caught speeds by 2020 from 30 Mbps to 100 Mbps and veterating, namely how innovative applications can now significantly reduce noise on copper cables. Perhaps the difference from 1 Mbps to 30 Mbps or 100 Mbps is better understood by our young people, but within today's bill there are also issues that I am sure they are unable to understand, such as why it is essential that the law is very strict and well structured so that the phenomenon does not resurface, where every three and a little close holes in the streets without programme, without information, without cost control, without planning and ultimately without respect for the citizens. Our experience should be the basis for and the political basis for a parliamentary consensus, so that all necessary precautions can be taken and not prevented from blocking the bad texts and misery of post-multiple practices of post-multiple those who really understand the important benefits that Greece has today, by synchronising its pace with Europe in the process of a new era, what is already called the 'fourth industrial revolution'. Experience can remove obstacles to ability. We must now ensure that future generations are given the opportunity to participate on equal terms in claiming the new horizons opened for the whole of humanity. "Don't stay behind" was always the advice of the Greek family to her children. So we managed today to have the highest percentage of educated Greeks we have ever had as a country, despite the tragic fact that, unfortunately, they cannot find work in their country. The foundation of the Greek family remains the pursuit of every generation to be better than the previous generation to be more educated, more capable than the previous generation, with a stronger will to advance and progress, naturally through the preservation and strengthening of peace and the institutions of democracy. We all want the best for our children. We are, however, raising them in a social environment delivered to the appetites of the globalised markets, which is under the administration of political forces, which are unable to protect them. After this, I continue to think, today, that this House has done well when we made the right decision and gave our adolescents the right to vote, the seventeen who will soon be called upon to manage difficult situations, but for which they do not bear any responsibility at all. By supporting the right to vote at 17, together, of course, with the democratisation that is capable of implementing the simple act, we sent the right message to our young people that adulthood is accompanied by very great demands and responsibilities and that they must take the future themselves into their own hands. In order to be able to do so, we have to take care of them, even have the opportunity to fight. The Central Association has earlyly raised as a major political issue our synchronisation and step by stepping up the rest of Europe in the development of infrastructure projects for the development of new technologies. In this context we could, rather than be positive, at least in relation to the first twelve articles of the draft law in question, as they ensure: Greece will have a chance to catch up with the timetable and be one of the European countries, which by 2020 the vast majority of its population will be able to enjoy online speeds of up to 100 Mbps. It will move the construction sector under collapse, as the projects required are many and have guaranteed funding from the investments of the companies that will be active in this area. Without the installation of the famous high-speed broadband networks, we cannot talk either of linking business universities or of startups on the Internet or of policies of extroversion and innovation development. It is therefore a prerequisite for the country's exit from the crisis to coordinate it with European data. After all, as has been said several times, it is our country's obligation to transpose the legislation of European Directive 61/2014, which not only provides and envisions Europe's online future but requires that it be done at the least cost. This directive substantiates the central political choice of the European States, to encourage the development of new technologies and to promote innovation as a medium-term priority and therefore provides for measures to reduce the costs of setting up high-speed electronic communications networks. In short, we support the coexistence of our country with the rest of the Western developed world in the development of the internet, as this is an appropriate and necessary treaty to escape the great amount of monuments. Without internet there is no growth, no investments. Without internet we will not stop the Brain Drain nor will we ever attract serious and major investors. I would like to close my article with a few comments on Article 13, which, from the outset, the truth was also a point of a few rubbles. We were pleased to hear Mr Tsamakis, President of the National Committee on Telecommunications and Posts, this both important and historic Independent Authority, who insisted on the importance of its regulatory and supervisory role, reminded the value of its consultative services to Parliament and clearly explained the possibility of transferring and exploiting know-how. We will keep the point he made, that it is wrong to try to quantify the possible strengthening of the Greek economy since the adoption of this bill in absolute GDP units. It has been established, claiming that it is not a linear relationship between the implementation of the bill and the increase in GDP. A wider stable economic, fiscal and institutional environment is needed. In short, he has also expressed our concern and concern, that this bill is not enough and should be given strong cross-party support. We must make use of this consensus in the name of defending the public interest and ensure that all this is done in the time and the way it has to be done, by cancelling bureaucratic claws. We mentioned yesterday the example of 'DIGEA' and the fact that in western Macedonia they do not have access to Greek television programmes proves that we have set further rules and have welcomed the additional safeguards. Nevertheless - and I am closing down with my comment on Article 13 - we have finally come as the Central Association, that there has been insufficient explanations of the expenditure provided for in this Article, and that ambiguity about the burden of the state budget will lead us to vote against it. At a time of crisis that reduces wages and pensions, which are not paid for government supplies, which are not offset by debts, which we exaggerate what moves and breathes, we cannot have ambiguity and incurable burdens. Finally, I will say a few words about the amendments. The first with a general number of 985 and a theme: ‘Completion of provisions of Law 4053/2012 on the operation of the postal market and regulation of the method of calculating net universal service costs’, is in the right direction and we will vote in favour of it if you clarify: Why has the transitional period finally been chosen to reach 2015 rather than 2014? Secondly, why has the maximum of 15 million per year been set on what criteria and no more or more? The second, with a general number 986, which relates to the process of consolidation of GDP, is in complete agreement with us and we will support it, provided that you accept our proposal, which I present to you here, to set a ceiling on the cost of applying a committee to GDP. In particular, we would like to make the number of recruitments clearer and the level of the corresponding salaries of the external legal and economic consultants clearer. The people, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, require truth, planning, justice. The road isn't easy. What is crystal clear, honest, fair, realistic and well-designed is the only purpose of getting out of the crisis, we in the Central Association will support it, without populism, without party benefits, without any hypocritical reason. Basically today we support a European directive, which has come to us since 2014. We regret that three years later we come to incorporate it into Greek law. The Centro Association will support, as we have said, the bill will vote for Articles 1 to 12, it will vote against Article 13 and, depending on what we have said on our side on the amendments, we will vote at the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u108	The river made a mutual change. Mr Danellis will speak as a special speaker and Mr Amyras will, if necessary, as a parliamentary representative. Mr. Danielle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, because very often newspaper or television report titles, such as 'ethnic Greek adolescents on the Internet' or 'dependent Greeks from the smart phones' create an illusion of digital reality in Greece, where most citizens exploit the potential of technologies to improve their everyday lives, we have to make it clear that this is an illusion. Our country, unfortunately, remains in the 20th-sixth place between the twenty-sixth countries of the European Union, in the digital economy and society index, DESI, as the penetration rate of digital technologies is slowly being carried out both at the level of connectivity and at the level of digitalisation of businesses and public services. At the same time, the digital skills level remains extremely low, as in a recent survey by the National Centre for Social Research 40% of respondents do not use the internet either because it does not know how or because it does not find it useful. But within the European Union and in our wider neighbourhood in Slovenia, Slovakia in countries such as these, but much more in some countries in the north - and I am not talking about the Scandinavian but about the Baltic countries - we see that they are gaining the first within our continent, but even globally precede countries such as South Korea, Japan, the United States, which have a tradition in these areas. Lithuania, we see it leading within the European Union to high-speed and fibre-based internet penetration services, while at the same time having the fastest public wireless Internet access worldwide. In its capital, Vilnius, most of the companies concerned are already represented by the United Kingdom, the United States or Scandinavia. And Estonia has developed in an advanced digital society with excellent potential in the fields of communication and information technologies and cybersecurity. We must say that Talin is hosting and the centre of excellence for NATO's cybersecurity. Estonia - at all random with these characteristics - is, as we have seen recently, ranked, in the third world position and in the first place within the European Union in terms of the overall performance of pupils aged 15 years. In all of us it is another good idea for reporting, that four - five cities such as Trikala, Ioannina, Larissa, Veria and Heraklion have brought the title of smart city, offering a modern living and working environment to their citizens, businesses and visitors. Services such as telemedicine, visual ring, intelligent transport, online connections, up to e - searches of lost pets, which for most cities may seem achievements of the distant future, are already offered to the above municipalities, proving that another digital reality is possible. What are we talking about today? We certainly do not discuss the achievements of all the above that have been achieved in other countries. On the contrary, we are late in introducing a Community directive into our national law, as usual, only five of the financial sanctions and then two warnings from the Commission. In particular, we incorporate Directive 2014/61/EU, including the updating of the legislative framework on the procedure for granting rights to crossing electronic communications networks. The aim of the bill is to facilitate the installation of high-speed broadband networks to ensure access by 2020 at online speeds of more than 30 Mbps and to contribute 50% of Union households at speeds of more than 100 Mbps. This also provides for this Community directive to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the Digital Agenda and of the National Digital Strategy Plan 2016-2020. The draft law encourages the development of very high-speed broadband networks, in particular fibre optic networks to reach buildings and homes, as well as a reduction in the costs of new generation telecommunications networks. The provision of better broadband coverage, as well as the reduction of the costs of high-speed electronic communications installations throughout the Union, clearly contributes to the proper planning and coordination of projects, the reduction of administrative burdens and the digitisation of the public sector, which has been increasingly intense in recent years. Of course, it will, in addition to reducing public administration expenditure, bring about more efficient services for citizens, a digital leverage effect in all sectors of the economy. A strategic background to the draft law is the National Digital Strategy 2016-2021 of the General Secretariat of Digital Policy of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, which includes the National Broadband Access Plan 2014-2020 of the General Secretariat of Telecommunications, which was drawn up in the summer of 2015. For us, however, it is necessary for the National Broadband Access Plan to be updated, because EPC is a theoretical action plan, which in essence only reflects the ESDP strategy. In other words, it does not have an operational plan for organising, implementing and evaluating policies. Greece, however, needs to become absolutely digital in all areas and especially in the critical areas, first of all, of course, the administration, because we must not forget that technology in itself operates at a much lower cost than any other form of conciliation and relieves too many side effects, which as malignancies we have seen grow strongly in public life in recent years. The distance service offered by technology is a good one for the reduced funds with which we have to live from now on. Consequently, the effectiveness of the directive we are introducing today in our national law will only be of value if it is implemented as a whole, because it does not, as a regulatory contour, constitute such an integrated policy. ‘Annex X’ attempts to concentrate as a whole on the basic parameters of the Directive, but a practical statutory guide to implementation is required with full imprinting of the measures in accordance with institutional competences. We, the Potami, are voting in favour of this bill and will then be placed through our parliamentary representative in the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after they have been informed about the history of the building and how the House organises and operates, thirty students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Eleftherios Venizelos High School in Chania. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, has Mrs. Connordou left? I was going to give her the floor not to delay her, to talk about the amendment and to leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u111	Let's call her.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u112	You come and I will give her the floor immediately after she wishes, so that we do not waste time. We're going well. So in the time I told you, we'll be done. You have the floor to make your position on the ministerial amendment, and Mrs Konordos will then do hers. Let's go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, can I just talk about the ministerial amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u114	To speak about the bill, and at the end, if you wish, you are also talking about the amendment because some colleagues have been put.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u115	I think - and I take the opportunity to say this because we are discussing a bill which has broad support - that good parliamentary relations also require consultation on this: I have seen a policy which says: 'I agree with the bill but I will tell you other things with which I disagree'. I do not think that this now serves a political destiny, which has a very small horizon. I am not talking about general political issues. I am talking about matters within my ministry, but they are outside the material of the bill we are voting on and to which opposition voices have been referred in detail. I would now like to say on the issue of negotiation, which Mrs Asimakopoulou and Mr Maniotis have mentioned in detail. We were accused of having - says - Janus's face. This is the complete reversal of reality. This criticism was voiced by parties who, at the same time as they say'sign as - as we are told', are also painful. Mr Maniotis said that 'Tsipras will also bring the next memorandum'. The next Memorandum would have been brought by Tsipras, gentlemen of the Democratic Incorporation, if he signed when you and others "sign, sign", while the unilateral requirements of the International Monetary Fund for 4.5 billion meters were on the table. We have moved a distance from the demand for extra austerity to the zero budgetary result. But when the demand was extra austerity, you asked us to sign. So I think you should really sit and think about how you are going to deal from now on, because the evaluation will close and close with zero budgetary results, and I am sure that the extreme voices which, due to political purposes, are only delaying the negotiation at the moment, often anticipated things unheard of, will not prevail. It seems that issues are growing within Europe and the debate is becoming richer. Anyone who at the moment says that it is in favour of the idea that the country is an integral part of Europe must also answer the question: 'What Europe?' It cannot be stripped or put into a second category this debate. This is the core of Europe. Yesterday, Mr Gabriel, the German Foreign Minister, had the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, an article in which he presented an idea which, in relation to the approach to the crisis, has so far been a very serious displacement. The German Foreign Minister wrote that Germany is taking advantage of its membership of the European Union. It's not the country that pays the others. The idea that Germany is a country that pays others through the mediation of the 'bad' Community was the foundation for implementing the policies implemented in Europe. And that idea is tested. This is where all the political forces are called upon to place themselves. We can't curry about others. Anyone who says that the country's position is within Europe, at the moment when Europe is in fundamental dilemmas, should also be placed with which Europe. And I would say, of course, especially to friends of the Democratic Association, when they are placed with such a straightforward and very sharp criticism toward us, to see how their partners are placed in the Socialist Party, when Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras is constantly and repeatedly invited to the so-called 'pre-summit' meetings of the Socialists before the summits. The tactics and the tone of the Democratic Incorporation is absolutely incompatible at the moment with the government in relation to what it sounds there. I would also like to say that the opposition vertigo should sometime end. As the days pass, however, the world also realizes what priorities are. Because the New Democracy has gone from 'we will vote so much and so much' - take note - in 'we do not vote'. When was this displacement? When we managed to have a zero budgetary result. What, then, does New Democracy not vote? The positive countermeasures. This is just the problem of the New Democracy. Because when the 4.5 billion more austerity was on the table, the New Democracy said 'close and if it were us, we would say so much more'. And it is coming at the moment, while the balance point has been displaced into negotiation with the zero budgetary result, to say that it does not vote for anything. Not because he has a problem with further austerity so much and so much more, but because, obviously, he has a problem with positive countermeasures. These are, therefore, issues which should very soon be resolved - I think - opposition in relation to its medium-term strategy. Now I will go into one of the issues relating to the bill and have been mentioned during the debate. On the Rural issue. The Rural had started and been veiled and completed by our own government. Tomorrow we'll deliver the highways. What, then, are you going to say it's your work?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u116	Did you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u117	The bolted highways, the Corinth - Patras? Please, I mean, please. There must be a measure. We are talking about projects which for decades have been announced - the Prime Ministers have also taken a picture of the bulldozers - and have never been delivered. So I think one thing needs to get into place. Mrs Asmakopoulou mentioned space service issues. I call on her not to worry at all. The regulation on space service comes and will come in such a way that, as it was at the outset, it has been embraced by both the scientific community and the community of Greek businesses dealing with space applications. That's how he'll come to the House for vote. And I am sure that, as now in the case of the bill to reduce the cost of installing high-speed networks, we have a very broad consensus, we will also have a very broad consensus when voting for the space service. And the sweet or the least sweet 'hazomaroules' that some members of the New Democracy have exclaimed, when we announced this policy, we will remember them and smile. Because humor is good, but it's best for someone to have something to say. This is in relation to Article 13(3). In relation to paragraph 7 of Article 13, there is no direct delegation. This isn't about it. This is the possibility of negotiating Greece's rights in relation to the Greek orbital position. When OTE sold, poorly sold, the satellite was sold with him, and there were suggestions that this should not happen. So at the moment Greece must somehow ensure that the rights stemming from the occupation of the Greek orbital position are guaranteed. The Greek orbital position - because the opposition was asked, because we travelled to Nice - you lose it if there is no satellite on it in time. Shouldn't the Minister have visited the space in which the satellite will be built, which will take over the Greek orbital position? Or should the Ministry not have gone to Barcelona's global mobile telephony exhibition, where for the first time Greece had not had sufficient but had a decent presence? And I commit before the National Representation to exhaust all possibilities myself and other co-responsible bodies, so that we can have even greater and even stronger presence in time. Because the Greeks are also able to claim the space for Greece, which I think we all have to believe that it can and must claim and take over at these events and the very important global meetings. There has been a criticism from the JRC about what the development of these networks will have, a criticism that comes from the general theory that I respect, but with which I deeply disagree. Because it leaves no room for this logic of policy intervention, for intervention by the left-wing and progressive policies, for interventions which are precisely technological development and technological leaps in conditions, of course, of capitalist economy, we can regulate them and ensure minimum rights for the citizen. And I will tell you one example, because capitalism also existed in Chile, Pinochet, capitalism existed in Sweden. The health system in one country and another would not be able to compare it seriously. I therefore think there are political disagreements here, which have also been reflected in this debate, which I have tried to describe. With regard to the ELTA amendment, this is a European obligation to grant the universal service. As we do it for the years until 2015, we will do it for the next few years. We will be absolutely consistent in our obligation to ensure universal service. We are in constant contact with both the agency's administration and the workers' union, and I think we can really put an end to the payroll of the ELTAs, which, in my opinion, was completely indifferent and aimed at strengthening very specific interests. In other words, the fact that the ELTAs did not prioritise their penetration into the package market was an option. Or the fact that they voluntarily left the possibility of absorbing European funds at the end of 2014 was an option. The ELTAs have the most adequate and developed network. This network must and is, in our view, able to make use of it, of course, in the context of the open market, but we will not embrace, choices which they consciously and orderlylyly want to put the ELTAs at the corner and reap them for the benefit of their competitors. This is not going to happen and I think that this amendment is a very important sign in relation to our decision to support the organisation. And I am pleased to hear, first of all, positive positions from opposition parties. Our country, ladies and gentlemen, is on the line of Europe in terms of the broadband network infrastructures of a new generation. He's not a 20th sixth in the twenty-eight. The new DESI indicators were published the day before yesterday, and if one sees them, one will see that this indicator, which deals exclusively with the penetration of the new generation networks, ranks us in the 20th eighth place. I would like to state here before the National Representation that the classification index is not necessarily the most suitable, the most excellent one to describe the situation. In other words, we could find ourselves in a situation in one or two years from now, which has dramatically increased the penetration of the new generation networks, but other countries, too, have taken steps and have not improved our rankings dramatically. What we really need to assess first and foremost with commitment is the productivity of the policy applied in relation to the absolute penetration of the new technologies into the Greek economy and the Greek society, that is, the absolute indices of penetration. The others are comparative, which of course have their usefulness and show a measure, as to whether the country can compete on the international surface, but also on the other indicators, I think they have their essence. We are very back, of course, and to the degree of penetration in the use of the population in these technologies, in the technologies of the very fast Internet. And I would even take you a step back, saying that we are low in the rate of using smart mobile phones, that is, we have a phenomenon where older people do not become familiar with the use of these mobile phones. Be careful, however, there are possibilities - and here is the crucial challenge in policy implementation - applications and mobile phones have been developed by Greek companies, which have been designed precisely to meet this type of needs, namely, that the elderly man can make use of these developed modern applications, without being in an environment that is as complex as a typical smart phone. There is therefore an issue here, and what the state can and must do, so that it can make it easier for the country, so that we can catch up with the objectives and, above all, improve the lives of our citizens. We are lagging behind in the extent to which new technologies are being exploited by our companies dramatically. I think it's around 4%, I can't at this time withdraw the exact number, but it's the percentage of e-commerce in relation to total ticks. They're percentages too low. Here too the question of coordinating, of course, both the Government and the parties and the professional associations so that these technologies can be diffused. Mark Weser, the father of the ever - present computing, said that the deepest technologies are the ones that become invisible, the ones that are incorporated into the web of everyday life and become so quietly understood. By analogy, much earlier, when electricity was new, it was very noisy and burdensome for everyday use. Today it is considered self-evident. The aim should therefore be to make this new technology, the technology relating to high-speed connections and the so-called 'invisible' applications, i.e. self-evident for the daily life of the citizen. And that's what I think is the essence of the targeting we're putting into. We reduce the cost of setting up high-speed networks and this is very important. You wondered why we are talking about a 60% reduction in costs to 80%. At the cost of installing networks it has been shown that this piece, 60% to 70% - sometimes more - is the cost of excavations, that is, the cost of the bulldozer going, digging, opening a hole, spreading and passing after the cable. If this cost goes out of the middle by making use of the existing infrastructure but also by imposing coordination, so that we do not do a double job, and even a short distance, of course, savings may be. And that is where the absolute use of available European resources comes from, which can, in the light of and under the state of these arrangements, have a multiplier effect. Because you realise that if the large part of the European funds planned for these actions were spent most of the time in projects of this type, we would have a rather lower development of the networks, which we are talking about. We are therefore facilitating synergies between operators. This bill removes restrictions on the exploitation of existing infrastructures and of course avoids long-term and costly judicial disputes, since the national dispute resolution body, the National Telecommunications and Post Committee, can soon decide on clear and transparent rules. I do not know whether there is a need for the resumption of the legislative improvements, which I mentioned in detail yesterday. We put them in the Minutes to be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u118	Because there are too many legislative improvements which are also verbal, I think that substantial legislative improvements are the one that enables the EBT to set up the committees itself. I think this is something that will improve its effectiveness. I am very pleased to be able to recommend a bill, which has such broad consensus in its vote, and I sincerely hope that this will make us all even more mature, so that these things can be discussed, of course, on the basis of their principles, everyone, but with a very conscious intergroup that it is a very great need this time for the country to not lose it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u119	On the basis of the parliamentary order, I shall begin with Mrs Vaki. Mrs Vaki, would you like to speak first or listen and then close, as you do, as a government parliamentary representative?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u120	I shall now speak, Mr President, because I have an unsettled obligation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u121	We will then continue in order, intervening in the intervening period and three colleagues from the eight who have been registered. After Mrs Vaki, Mr Javaras and Mrs Christophilopoulou will speak. Three Members will be inserted after that, Mrs Cavadia, Mr Dimas and Mrs Kefalidou. Mrs Vaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today an important bill, which contributes substantially to strengthening the country's digital infrastructure, a bill with which the state acquires important tools to combat digital exclusion. It is good that this bill supports other sides of the House, and in this direction I do not want to take my time in disputes with colleagues from the Opposition. However, I could not point out that this bill is another stone in the modernisation of the digital policy launched by this government. Comments have been made - I say this - on delays, lack of planning on digital policy issues, and I would really like to refer to a number of data, which are of course known to all of us. What, ladies and gentlemen, have the country's digital policy been all along before SYRIZA takes over governance? You'll probably all remember them. Let's go to 2013. Greece in 2013 was a poor digital country, according to the European Index of Digital Economy and Society. So what did the previous government do to cure - supposedly - this delay? Should we remind you of a few things? The first move was to close the ERT and falsify citizens' access to the free digital television spectrum. The huge digital infrastructure of ERT has been cancelled and the digital broadcasting of public television in Greece and abroad has ceased. The second move was to assign the entire digital package to “DIGEA”, under contractual conditions that did not oblige the major canalarchs of the consortium to provide a digital signal throughout Greece, despite the mountainity and insularity of the country for which, supposedly, the then-government parties were fighting so much. The result is, today, that entire areas from the digital spectrum are excluded with the connection costs being transferred to the citizens themselves, of course, for the benefit of the companies providing these connections. What have we done in contrast? Everything is well known, nothing new will be revealed. SYRIZA reconstructed the country's digital policy, starting with the restoration of ERT's function. At the same time, we launched the creation of the independent digital network of public television, so that all households, even in the most remote villages in Greece, can have access to information. These policies, of course, have been fought rabies by the Civic Opposition, which has sacrificed digital policy to the altar of the redundancies and the interests of the canalarchs. And at the administrative level, however, the work carried out was important. Those administrative structures needed to implement a progressive and modern digital policy were created from scratch. The necessary general secretariats, which not only effectively respond to critical administrative needs, but also ensure the absorption of important European resources to enhance digital policy. In the context of this important project, therefore, the Ministry of Digital Policy has also been created, making this crucial area, autonomous management, and building the foundations for the development of integrated interventions in this area. With this bill, then, there is another step towards combating digital poverty. By reducing the cost of installing high-speed electronic communications networks, citizens will gain easier and cheaper access to the Internet and its applications. It would therefore not be an exaggeration to say that, with this bill, as well as with a number of other interventions at legislative and administrative level, digital policy becomes the basis for the country's productive reconstruction, contributing to progress in areas from tourism to services, to agriculture, industry and space technology, which does not seem to be a priority for opposition, if one judges its response to the relevant planning. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend to deal with the issues of the current political topicality, however, because a number of things have been heard, particularly on the part of Officerial Response, so soon as I can note: It would be useful to stress that at an extremely critical time for the country, the government's effort could be no more than the conclusion of discussions and negotiations in an agreement within the acquis communautaire and, above all, an agreement allowing economic development with society upright. At the moment, ladies and gentlemen, an extremely critical debate is taking place on the future of Europe. In this debate Greece seeks to expressly include in the joint declaration the leaders in Rome for the sixty years of the European Union the question of respect for the European social acquis. So, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, you seem to be fighting the European social acquis. You oppose collective bargaining and you support the International Monetary Fund's non-European framework request to free collective redundancies. After all, you have legislated all this for the first time and now you are the addicts of this wild neoliberal model within the country. May I therefore directly address the question and then you will have the opportunity to answer it: do you support Greece's efforts to expressly refer to the text of the conclusions of the summit, the principle of respect for the protection of the European social acquis? I have not heard you answer that question. Do you agree with the European social acquis? It would be useful for you to tell us, especially for the Greek people to hear it. Our attitude to the question of negotiation is clear. Our limits, the limits of the negotiation are the limits set by the European acquis. So too are many factors in the European institutions. And we will continue to fight for the restoration of European law and best European practices in labour law. And we will continue to fight for social protection of the weak. We will continue to go ahead with fair growth with a social mark. These principles, you know, often do not sound particularly pleasant in various neoliberal circles. So, let them not be super-revolutionaries, some in this Chamber, because Mr. Shoeble, Mr. Weber, Mr. Fillon and all your other political relatives are not on the same side of the table as Greece. They are traditionally against the rights of the Greek people. So you, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response, should choose who you are. Are you with your conservative political partners or with the European acquis? With the IMF and Shoeble, or with social rights and dignity at work? It would be a good answer to give these answers - and to give them soon - not because we are asking for them, but because the Greek people have understood your embarrassment and know that in the past you have always been willing for what the lenders are asking for and for so many others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u123	Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Javarra, has been speaking for twelve minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. I was just coming down to the Step, a dear colleague, has left many open issues. Of course, I do not have the power to close everything, but at least to the extent and to the extent that he addressed specific questions to the New Democracy, and especially to the New Democracy's position on European issues that have now taken a national risk from the way in which the government negotiates these issues, I would just like to ask the Minister and Mrs Vaki: What you are talking about here in this House and what you are addressing us, have you told your interlocutors in the negotiations?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u125	What do you think?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u126	So you're saying you think they're anything? Are you saying that Mr. Shoeble is the enemy of Greece? Have you told him this to his face? But, finally, stop negotiating inside in this supersoft and arrogant way and take a serious and responsible stance on the major national issues. I'll tell you something exactly as Thucydides says in that very beautiful scene the Spartans' allies have gathered in Corinth and they're talking about what the Athenians are. There, then, is a very beautiful phrase: "You are indeed rather dangerous, but unfortunately not for the good of Greece. For the good of your party, for the good of your class policy, for the good of a power you serve and you see it as a dream and you try through this use of power to convince us that you govern, that is, that you run and run institutions that have liberal content. Mrs Vaki, you know much better than I do, because you're a professor of political science, that this Constitution we all serve has ideology and its ideology is liberal. The big problem for you is the great difficulty from which the whole state is now suffering. All society, all institutions, are suffering from the difficulty of adapting to the functioning of liberal institutions, to adapt to the logic of the free market. You cannot negotiate, you are inherently incapable of doing so, and that is why you constantly accumulate difficulties in that country. The greatest idea of all, I think, which is also inappropriate, is to try to convince our partners at the anniversary event that you will veto the communiqué of the communiqué for the sixty years since the establishment of the European Economic Community on 25 March 1957, because Europe is supposedly not respecting the social acquis. Really, what does social acquis mean? Why don't you come and tell us? Does the state-owned trade unions finally mean modernising the law on trade unionism in Greece? Is that a acquis? Is the appeal to the arbitrators to end collective bargaining in this state-of-the-art way, which has nothing to do with respect for collective autonomy? Is that the social acquis? Is it a social acquis, at last, that you should manage, as it has happened, issues that none of you have been interested in seeing how the acquis communautaire has been shaped specifically in relation to social policy issues? Finally, stop. Mercy! We can no longer afford to hear nonsense, nonsense of deceptive meanings, knowledge that you get, rumm them, snatch them, and have no real effect on reality. Finally, we must all be serious! Unfortunately, while I intended to address Mr Pappa, you managed to distract me. But what you deserve is that today you have come here to celebrate a democratic parliamentary victory because you have brought after very long delay and incorporated a directive, which you should have done over a year ago. Congratulations! But what you cannot hide from is Article 13. It is what he says "he wants someone to hide, but joy doesn't leave him". So you want to hide the real moods you have for the institutions, for the function of the state as I mentioned it, but that is what makes the Left plunder and vigilant against the mechanisation of some individual demands. But, Minister, have you not understood or at least heard from wise people say that if we arrived at this terrible crisis, which is systemic, one of the reasons was why the State in Transmigration did not satisfy the general interest, the whole interest, but met some requests, requests individually, requests for social divisions that had an expression of trade unionism in the CEC and in those cases where they have left ruins behind in the insurance system? Didn't you ever happen to hear that? And so you are bringing us today a series of regulations which do nothing but connect today's great left-wing government to the toughest tradition of an anachronism that has caused the crisis. What do you have to say about that? It gives me the impression that you come here and repeat the words your people have trusted with. Look at you: Then when you said these things, when you found New Democracy, when you said that you were the new one and we are the old one, the people were indeed in a confusion. This confusion has been taken advantage of and you have indeed taken the lead. But you wanted to take authority. You have said this on several occasions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u127	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u128	And that's why, in this game you're doing for the full rowing, in class terms, of power, you'll find against you all of this country's democrats. Slowly, a resistance front of a liberal democracy is swelling every day and sees just that the words you are always repeating, that is, those that are a record of completeness, self-sufficiency, arrogance, no longer have any value, no matter what, no matter what, no matter what. All they do is become malicious repetitions of a pattern of political speech that has now been driven into the trash can of history, along with all the other popular stereotypes we suffer from. But that is why I would expect the government today, because in fact of everything you have brought forward and we are voting on today, the most important is the amendment to GDP, and I am sorry that while the Prime Minister himself has made a statement a few days ago that this issue will be resolved which has made all the authors of the country feel insecure, even their users have made themselves uncertain and not have the impression that they are governed by a serious government, yet, despite his statement, not even the Minister responsible has come here to support this particular amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u129	I'm here, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u130	I know, but when it was distributed, the Minister was not here and we were deprived of the right to challenge it. But the Minister will allow me to say to her: to withdraw her, Minister. This is a gonatogram, you have written it in the hands of the chosen Members, Mr Xydakis, who respects him and I suspect him, but I think that this particular provision cannot be voted on by Parliament for the following reasons: Firstly, the use of the precautionary or repressive measure in the definition of a commissioner in a public limited company is not provided by any provision of the legislation. To think that until 2007 provisions of Law 2190, i.e. the Law on public limited companies, were in force, which provided that if the liabilities were doubled by the assets of a public limited company, i.e. the net position would give twice the assets, then the Minister of Commerce decided to withdraw the licence. This is over. There's no more. It's gone. In no case can the State interfere in the lives of public limited companies, because public limited companies are legal persons and such as natural persons, it has this legal person the right to life, to respect individual freedoms and individual rights laid down in Article 5 of the Greek Constitution, this Constitution which you obviously do not care to make it a rhythm of democratic and political life. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, if you will allow me, I will beg you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u131	Carry on, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u132	The second and most serious thing is that this provision has actually been copied by the only provision in Greek legislation and is the provision of Article 137 of Law No42/1961 on the supervision of the credit system. There is indeed the Bank of Greece, if there is a reduction in equity that reaches half of the share capital in any credit institution, makes a decision and appoints a commissioner. But the Commissioner should see whether he is a commissioner who joins the administration or is a commissioner who will replace the administration, that is to say, whether he is a commissioner from the days of which he is dependent on the functioning and active decisions of the management which remain in operation or replace the administrative bodies. So you, with this amendment tabled, are both doing it. You have the Commissioner who is taking action in parallel with the administration and at the same time at the same time annulling the decisions of the administration. These, Minister, whoever appeals to the courts will actually demolish them in court, and then you will have done even greater damage to GDP, because you have not so far brought the copyright law, the law that I know was ready. I think Mr. Xydakis had him.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Maddash.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u134	It is a law that really, in a very large part, echoes the wishes, intentions, the demands of the creators and of course also responds to the legitimate interests of users. So to this day, you're taking it and bringing it and the House hasn't seen it. As long as you are delaying adjusting this landscape, this GNI phenomenon can cause side effects. And one of the side effects it will cause is that if you finally do so in the way that colleagues are proposing today - and you will probably accept it, because I do not know if you are fully aware of what you are going to do - you will create what is friendly to the Government of the SYRIZA Left. You will create a pouch within a private field, a service compartment that will be recruited by executives with your decision that will go lawyers to pay for the revenues of GNI and there you will be pleased, because once again you have confirmed your ideological character, that is to say, you have created to the detriment of the Greek people issues related to the recruitment of others. But I think - and I conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance - that this particular provision should indeed be withdrawn. We are all together willing to help you make a regulation, but within the framework of a systematic legislative approach where there will be respect for the rights of authors and, of course, respect for users' interests. That is why I believe that Article 45 has caused you many problems in the bill. It is no coincidence that there you cannot balance the opposing opinions that have taken place within your party. But I insist that if you continue, you will create a much greater problem than these problems you are going to solve, because you cannot in this way cause any change.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Javarra, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u136	I'm done. There is Article 69, however, of the Civil Code - I give you an idea - where you can define temporary administration of GNI, because it is a public limited company, for the reason that it is proven by Ernst & Young's report that the interests of the managers are conflicting with the interests of the legal person. So you can succeed in appointing the temporary administration at the Peace Court tomorrow. Put anyone you want, as long as they are people of known prestige and give them exactly the opportunity to either lead the legal person to recovery or if that is not done, lead it to liquidation. Different ways exist, because if you insist, I believe that the consequences will relate solely to your own fault. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u137	Before I hand over to my colleague Mr. Bored, I would like some lady from the Minutes to come and get something. Because I have heard many words about Europe, I would like to present in the Minutes an article written on 2 May 1998 - and only Makis Kouris agreed to host it - entitled 'Social Europe died... live the Europe of bankers!' And it brought the signature of a Member of the European Parliament who, although at the centre of the right, did not vote for the euro on 2 May 1998 in the European Parliament and the next day, what he heard is not said, Lepen of Greece, far-right, anti-European. His name is Nikitas Kaklamanis. So not to monopolize the story with who is centre-left or centre-right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u138	Mrs Christophilopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin my speech by making a reference to the tragic terrorist blow that took place yesterday in London City, a terrorist blow that is still under investigation, the causes of Scotland Yard. It is time, however, not only to say that we condemn this as well, as we did for the terrorist strikes in France and Brussels, but that we condemn this threat to the values of the open world, because we belong to the large family that wants open societies, democratic processes, freedoms of speech, opinions, trafficking of ideas, people, goods and that are threatened by terrorism. Now to the political issues raised in the debate on this bill, I would like to say to the Minister, Mr Papapas, who seemed to be disturbed by Mr Maniotis' point of view on delaying the negotiation. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are experiencing is the delay and the drainage. Literally drags the country, drags the evaluation for months. Result? New measures, more burdens and commitment of the country for many years. In essence, Mr Pappa, a fourth memorandum without funding. You're swinging the finger in the opposition, and at least we in the Democratic Compact because, he says, we don't vote. And be careful. We are not voting on the countermeasures, which are positive measures and countermeasures, will have a zero budgetary effect. Aren't you telling me, Minister, did you tell Mr. Chakaloto? To find the things between you at SYRIZA first, because Mr. Chakalotos said - and quite rightly - that some will lose and some will win. And Mr. Juliarakis, if I remember correctly, said - and quite rightly - that the longer the negotiation gets worse. We haven't talked about it, your colleagues are telling the Treasury. I don't know exactly what they mean, but I guess. Today they saw the light of publicity new data on the depth of the recession concerning research into the fall of the turnover in supermarkets compared with the previous year. SYRIZA this year, SYRIZA last year, minus 15% of the drop since last March, minus 10% from last January. There is the relevant post in the newspaper “KATHMERINI”. There is also new evidence of the precise lending of the banks through the ELA. They continue, in addition, to receive 400 million via the ELA in order for Greek banks to have liquidity. And, of course, not only are we paying the expensive ELA instead of going to the QE, to get it to the terms, rather than going through the closure of the evaluation, to take the timely advantage of quantitative relaxation, the overall economic data that, unfortunately, promotes a real situation, and for the first quarter, no one is facilitated and, above all, they are not facilitating the government, which is supposed to be negotiating. So don't shake our finger, because both your negotiating affinity and hostility to anything that has to do with growth, investment, entrepreneurship, lead us to the downside. Poverty continues, social equilibrium continues. I don't know if it suits you, Mr. Pappa. Look at it! With regard to the Socialist Party, which you are on the table, I have to inform you that it is not Mr Tsipras the only Prime Minister to be an observer from other governments who have participated in the pre-conferences of the Socialists, and Mr Christofias, the President of Cyprus, and that we as full members are taking part in all these pre-conferences of the leaders with Mrs Gennimata and myself, and myself and Mr Maniatis and other fellow Members of the PASOK Democratic Compact - DIMAR - are also taking part in ministerial meetings. We may have met, not together, but with other ministers because we as full members of the Socialists know how to strike. And I think that at the moment the great social and socialist family in the European Union is aware that we must finally end up with austerity policies, because otherwise, if this mixture does not change, it will not be possible to change the correlation of forces in Europe and we will be constantly threatened by Euroscepticism, populism, right-wing and left-wing, but also the extreme right, racism and xenophobia. So what you're saying is bad. And because the bill you tabled and which we are voting on, as you have heard from our rapporteur, Mr Maniotis, is a bill that under other circumstances could also contribute to the wider investment of digital technologies, to facilitating the interconnection between cities, people and societies in and out of Greece. This bill could indeed be a trigger and our agreement on it to discuss development. And we could agree on strange and hostile voices in Europe from the party to which I belong, the Socialist Party. So Mr Diaselblum seems to have been very sad because his party did not go well in the Dutch elections and from his very regret he made this unacceptable statement for the countries of the South. Mr Diaselblum did not respect the sacrifices of the countries of the South, nor was he particularly respecting the sacrifices made by the Greek citizens for years now and with very hard austerity and huge financial adjustment, which you have continued, increased and, as I said, brought the fourth memorandum to you. If Mr Dieselblum does not understand what we are saying to him, in the Socialist Party that austerity must end, and if he does not understand that he cannot moralize and move the finger in the countries of the South, then it cannot change the policy mix and Europe cannot move forward. I would like to explain that the southern countries may all have wasted and wasted, but they have invested. The North countries, however, which appear to be solidarity - in fact, they lend themselves and they do lend themselves at low interest rates, and in 2012, and you know that very well - the way they dealt was not only through austerity, but also through the cumulation of terrible surpluses - and especially Germany - tens of billions of surpluses. These surpluses had to be channelled to the countries of the South and to stimulate the demand and products of the countries of the South. If we do not enter this debate and across the European Union, ladies and gentlemen, then we cannot find any way out. Because when one toe moves one another and throws one another's ball of responsibility, one can't find a solution. And Europe will risk surrendering to forces of extremism, forces of populism, forces of nationalism, forces that, unlike us, believe in closed societies and are forces that invest in fear. These are the general issues raised during the debate on the draft law. I come to the parliament a little. Minister, you have lied to us that we do not respect the parliamentary order and we are holding you opposition, while voting for the bill on similar issues. I would like to tell you that it is now a conquered parliamentary practice when a bill comes not to make a bad position. I am not telling you to say generosity, but on the specific aspects of your portfolio, it is not the first time. It's a time-consuming thing. You did it as an Opposition to SYRIZA, and you did it very well. In fact, you did the other thing. You voted against almost everything. The 'DENMARK', for example, you have voted against it. Fortunately, you voted in 2014 for a provision of ours that enlarged the "GENERAL" and exists at the moment. We therefore do not consider it a bad parliamentary practice to raise relevant issues with the Minister's portfolio, which are not entirely unrelated to the bill. On the contrary. Because the Minister, Mrs. Connordos, is here, I really wonder. If you are urgent and should bring in, Minister, an amendment to GNI and not wait for the bill, which seems to be delayed, it should not be a ministerial amendment. After you have seen that there is an intent to solve the problem from many sides of the House, you should have told the parties that 'this is my intention'. I heard Mr. Javarra. I disagree on a lot of things with the New Democracy. Mrs Kefalidou will be placed on the basis of our own positions. But we can help solve a time-consuming problem. That's how it's supposed to be. This is not the first time that this has been happening and it is not just the case with Mrs Connordou. It happens most of all that amendments are made by Members and accepted by ministers. It is another thing that the Minister should say that 'I accept it, but I will bring the general', if something is an individual matter, but for such an important matter that an amendment is accepted at the time the series of legal corrections has been tabled, this has never been made before. Finally, I have to say that you too, Minister, Mr Pappas, have tabled three, four pages of legislative improvements. Here are your parliamentary achievements! You are coming to Parliament and you are even filing a bill incorporating a directive last minute a series of legislative improvements. It's an endless series! It doesn't make any sense to testify. All my colleagues have taken it. I conclude with a question to Mr. Pappa about the Greek Posts. Obviously, you are going with the amendment to solve a question of universal services. But, as Mr Maniotis said, our rapporteur, in the balance sheet of the ELTAs, has entered 50 million. I understand that you need to move quickly and we understand that, as you have heard, in the Democratic Assent. You must move on quickly, or we will have a state aid problem. You're going up to 15 million euros. But we ask you, Minister, what will happen to the EUR 50 million entered in the balance sheet of the ELTA? Because the times are not new, and we do not want the ELTAs to go and take the road that PPC has already taken, with enormous responsibilities of your Government, I ask you: Are you intending not to go bankrupt and what will you do about it? Otherwise, we are voting in favour of the bill and, of course, we have all the right to denounce everything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u140	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty-five students and students and four educational attendants from the 27th Bolo Municipal School. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, I would like to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u142	Here you go, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President, and this House for understanding. I want to make a clarification about the ELTAs. Mrs Christophilopoulou, I urge you to see this amendment as a first step towards the recognition of the state's obligations towards the Catholic Post Office. Obviously, the tabling of the amendment - and I would like to stress this with my position - is a move which highlights our determination to prevent any bankruptcy or other fraudulent practices associated with ELTAs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u144	Mrs Annetta Cavadia has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, just a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u146	For what? Come on, Mr. Maniot, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u147	Mr President, for a second, I should like to say something as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u148	In what process? There's no such procedure. Please, Mr. Maniotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u149	What are you doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u150	There's no such procedure. Mrs Cavadia has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u151	Congratulations!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u152	Do you now want to exchange congratulations? I assume, for the sake of applying the Rules of Procedure! Here, Mrs. Cabadia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be tempted to comment on what has been heard by the spokesman of the New Democracy about attempting to manipulate the media by the SYRIZA Government when it is its own party that has written brilliant pages with the closure of ERT, with the black of ERT, when it is its party which, in good cooperation and in a tight tight string with well-known and unexplained professional canalarchs, has given tangible examples of how they perceive the concept of journalism. I shall, however, be tempted and I shall come out for a little while to express my surprise and my indignation about the fact that the New Democracy is still whistling indifferently, not a single word of condemnation of obscene, outrageous, sexist attack by the Director of ONNED Thessaloniki against my colleague, Sis Anagnostopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u154	Delete, Mrs. Cabadia. We haven't lied.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u155	Deleted? If, of course, congratulations have been deleted. I'm so glad. I was in the Chamber and I didn't understand it. Eventually, your reflexes...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u156	What's late? Five minutes later it happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u157	No, it was written last afternoon.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u158	I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u159	How do you say that in public?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u160	I have told you, congratulations if you have done so, even with a delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u161	We did it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u162	What happened now? I say we ate them in the drinks and Mr. Diaselblum lost his sobriety. Now I see other side effects. Carry on, Mrs. Cabadia.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u163	I would also like to express my surprise at the fact that none of the opposition parties have signed up to the statement of protest and condemnation of the statements made by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. I was also surprised that the PASOK spokesman here set up these statements, but we do not see any signature from her party. One could talk about bilingualism and hypocrisy. As far as the bill we are talking about now is concerned, the SYRIZA Government is moving into brave and important regulation on high-speed electronic communications networks in order to finally offer quality telecommunications services to consumers, states and businesses at affordable prices. With this bill we are taking a big step, a necessary section that should have taken place for years to eliminate our country's digital laxity, the gap that we have with the other European countries on electronic communications networks, in order to align ourselves with the European Union's objective of accessing all citizens at high speeds. With this bill, it is finally created - and the word 'end' will be repeated many times in my speech - the Network Register throughout the territory. A register is multi-purpose on the Internet for any interested party, primarily for the public. So the physical infrastructure will finally be fully recorded, there will be transparency and the procedure for granting transit rights will be initiated. With this bill we finally stop the constant nuisance, the constant suffering of the inhabitants of the major urban centres, as well as of public transport passengers from the parallel projects. The phenomenon - just to say it - of digging the same road over and over each time from another company, will now come to an end. There will necessarily be the desired coordination, after the obligation to post six months before the technical work under construction has been laid down, so that all interested parties can be informed in time, to submit an application and to have many networks on a single project. In other words, all providers will be able to pass their networks on one point by only one act. This does not only reduce nuisance. The most important thing is that the cost of installation and transit is substantially reduced, and so we give the possibility of an increase in the fibre network so that this will soon reach the whole country's territory. This is a major step towards limiting the risk of monopolies in the field of technology, information and communication, a step consistent with the left-hand concept of this government, a step of state control and supervision in the field of telecommunications, a step which, of course, we expect to be complemented by other measures in subsequent bills. But it is also a big step towards removing the blockade of many border regions with serious cross-border benefits. Residents in many remote regions of the country will cease to be second-class citizens. Schools and health centres will be able to interconnect with speeds which allow for tele-education to prevent hospitality. Electronic governance services and many kinds of services are made accessible to all. Knowledge society can reach every house. Information and entertainment opportunities are multiplying. The development of new and innovative enterprises and teleworking are promoted without geographical restriction. The local climate forecast, which is of course very important for agricultural production, is made possible, as is environmental measurements. Not all of this will have a positive effect only on the quality of the daily life of the citizens, which is of course very important, but will result in multiplier positive effects on the competitiveness of the Greek economy and the development of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, most and most in this Chamber have not called into question the need to legislate on this draft law. The committee's consultation and meetings showed a general positive welcome, despite the individual objections, which I certainly do not accept. We are all aware of the importance of the digital revolution and the need for our country to be at the forefront of the relevant developments. The screens and networks spread to all our levels of life many times, unfortunately, especially to the new generations, swallowing essential parts of real life, and that is something we have to see as a government and as a parliament. So let us consider the articles of this bill as part of a more comprehensive package of measures and actions, which we must discuss and undertake not only as a government but also as political forces, so that technologies can serve social needs and not human isolation, so that new forms of social networking can deepen democracy and citizenship in the public, so that telecommunications and information technologies can contribute to a fairer distribution of wealth and not to increasing poverty.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u164	Thank you for managing time too. Mr. Dimas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are debating today the incorporation of a Community directive in 2014 with the urgency procedure. You know that, too, I know it, and we all know it's a 2014 Community directive. You had three years in front of you to incorporate it. The fact that we are discussing it with the urgency procedure is an issue. Unfortunately, your Government has brought more legislative initiatives with special procedures than regular procedures. This is a script that follows the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. Secondly, you referred to the motorways. It is indeed your government that cuts the ribbons and the Corinth - Patras. But you know, she is a virtue of a great man and a woman, sincerity and generosity. I therefore accept that your own Government has also contributed to the completion of motorways. But let me remind you, Minister, that when SYRIZA was in opposition, he had voted against the motorway bills and, of course, no one believes that the motorways were designed and completed in two and a half years. You know it, too, I know it, and I know it. We all know it. We shall now proceed to the debate today. Directive 2014/61/EU establishes an electronic information system through which a new digital adaptation framework is created. The aim is to take measures to reduce the costs of setup of high-speed networks, so that there are multiple benefits for citizens and businesses. As a new Republic, we agree with the directive, because the future of the economy and the future of our lives in general is digital. That is why the Greek state must adapt as soon as possible to the new era. This means modern infrastructure, low costs for consumers and digital alphabeticalism, i.e. better education. As far as the bill is concerned, I recognise two key features of SYRIZA - ANEL's DNA: first, the delay. As I said before, the directive was passed in 2014 and had to have been 1-1-2016 incorporated into national law, which you did not do, and once again to report to the European Commission. Secondly, the total lack of an integrated strategy for the digital economy. I will become more specific: In accordance with the objectives of the European Commission, which were incorporated into the 2014-2020 National Broadband Access Plan, all Greeks by 2020 should be able to access the Internet at speeds of more than 30 Mbps and at least 50% of households have a internet connection at a speed of more than 100 Mbps. I understand that technical terminology may not be understood throughout society. The point is, however, that for the development of electronic transactions, the extroversion of thousands of Greek businesses, access to a fast, secure and reliable internet network, at low cost, is more than vital. For another year, however, the country's performance is more than disappointing and the responsibility is now burdening you. You are two and a half years in the governance of the place and you have not taken the slightest step forward. You have received a plan that you have completely ignored. According to the digital economy index - you have been mentioned several times in the index and I am glad you have been following them, you have said that we are now, with the latest figures, in the last position between twenty-eight countries - members of the European Union - we have a very low level of digital skills, which acts as a brake on the further development of the digital economy and society, as the report points out. According to the report, Greece presents a wide range of fixed broadband connections, but their penetration is progressing slowly, the price is relatively high, the transition to fast broadband is slower than the other European Union countries and Greece remains lately covered by NGA networks per household. Moreover, according to data, as far as human capital is concerned, more people are connected on the Internet, but the level of skills remains low. The integration of digital technology in Greece is progressing slowly. As the report points out, “In Greece companies use social media, but are less willing to adopt new technologies, such as cloud and RFID. It is observed from an increase in small and medium-sized enterprises using electronic channels for sales, but not for cross-border sales and by extension opening to new markets.’ As far as e-government is concerned, the provision of electronic public services in our country is far below the average in the European Union. It is obvious, from what we see, that you do not have any planning on how the country can proceed to the digital era, and that is reflected in the data on the use of the corresponding European funds secured by the previous government. I would like to highlight two projects that have been included in the ESDP, in the ESDPEC programme. Firstly, it is the implementation of super fast broadband, a budget project of 200m euros, which aims to try to connect at least half the country's households at speeds of at least 100 Mbps and contributes to the development of broadband infrastructures for a new generation. The existence of such infrastructure, in addition to the possibilities offered to domestic consumers, creates a favourable environment for businesses as well. According to information, this work, Minister, is being redesigned, in simple terms, that is, it is stuck. Secondly, at a corresponding stage is the Regional Broadband Extension project, which, once again, is redesigned. It's stuck, so. Theoretically, if these two projects were designed to be part of a wide-ranging innovative government strategy, which you would soon present to us, I could accept. I fear, however, that neither is there any new strategy, nor are these projects really being redesigned. What we expect from the government and your Ministry is to reverse the climate in the digital economy. You said that, too, Minister. Sadly, however, I'm afraid you have no plan for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u166	Thank you. Ms. Joy Head of the Democratic Association has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will only refer to the amendment, which has been tabled: 'The imposition of an administrative measure on Collective Management Organisations'. We are the first, and recently we were the only ones to have been the only ones from the outset, since the date of publication of the findings of the audit firm that revealed the management scandal by the Governing Council of GDPI - you remember, with the wages of unthinkable ones, with undoubted profits for the creators, with illegal loans to the members of the Board of Directors - we insisted that there should be a direct appointment of a state commissioner, but with substantial responsibilities, in order to ensure that it should not collapse and not lure all the creators together. I would remind you that I myself, in this Chamber, tabled a timely question to which the Minister replied, but, unfortunately, did not understand the need to appoint a state commissioner. Our language, it is true, has welted until the state understands the size of the problem and the need for its immediate response. When we said that, Mr President, we had rather anticipated SYRIZA's tactics to suit his 'children' to the most crucial positions. Besides, you're used to us in this, it's true. That is why in my recent article on copyright a few days ago and today I have stressed and continue to stress the need for the parties to agree so that there can be a choice of a supra-party state commissioner, which will not do anything other than his job to exalt GDPI. Did we have a hunch? Do we know you very well anymore? So, after all this, what are you bringing us today? You are bringing us an amendment to our foot, late, because it was tabled today at 11 a.m., which serves you in all respects, but only serves you. Neither the creators nor the users. You are bringing an amendment that has obviously not been able to pass through the General Accounting Office of the State and speak of commissioner's fees and advice. For the amendment, brought by your Members, the first question I have to ask is whether it is accepted by the Minister responsible, by the Minister for Culture. And if so, where is the Minister of Finance? Because this is where a fund is created that will come from their remuneration. Does Mr. Chakalotos agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u168	You're wrong, my colleague. It's not a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u169	I'm waiting for all this to be heard. So when do you think to answer them? Or won't you even bother?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u170	We're going in.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u171	To make a little serious, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very rough amendment, and I would say that it is not going to work. I read attributes: "The Minister of Culture and Sport may, after the opinion of the Intellectual Property Organisation and if there is a serious possibility...". What does the poet want to say here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u172	It's hard to say. He's probably pretty good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u173	And you say: '... because of indicative negative own funds'. In other words, connect the Commissioner's appointment to the inability to collect and distribute. You have, for example, added the negative funds. However, negative capital is not related to the inability to collect and distribute. We want you more clearly to say what you have in mind. So, in order to make it easier, we say that you should say so simply: 'The Minister of Culture can, when all the own funds of a collective management organisation operating in the form of a public limited company are less than half of the share capital'. It is crucial that the conditions for the appointment of a commissioner should be clear, if we want the job to be done, and that we do not only serve corruption once again. Secondly, the Commissioner is nominated without the board being removed, with the task of collecting and distributing it. All other responsibilities remain in the existing administration. In other words, a form of co-operation is being established, without any question being made absolutely clear. Who makes the decisions on what issues? Who heads the staff? Who makes decisions on economic issues? Who decides on expenditure? Who's negotiating? Who concludes contracts? Who's signing the contracts? Who hires or fires staff? I fear that the proposed provision will only bring chaos and will not be able to operate the GDPI. The provision which stipulates that the Commissioner may intervene and annul an administrative act, we consider it to be completely wasteful. Think it over. Third point. It does not result from the amendment from when and then this Commissioner takes over. We think his term of office should be twelve months. And finally, the last thing that is the cherry on the cake, the appointment of Commissioner - you say - is made by a Minister's decision. We are not talking here about a Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen. We're talking about a congressman here. We call for the appointment of a commissioner to be of a cross-party nature, as it must of course be in these positions everywhere. What are you afraid of, Minister? What do you have to cover up? Who do you have to take care of, who to serve? That is why, in the proposed amendment, only this will arise. The sure thing is that once again with the cloak of the government's response to a major issue, you are looking to make things easier for your party friends. Hey, shame at last, it's your horrible tactic! We found out, we know her, and we got bored of her. If you really want to resolve the issue, you have to bring in a serious proposal, a proposal of the prerogative. We do not vote for it and please withdraw it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u174	So do we. Mr. Shahinides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. I think it is advisable to start with two - three issues of topical and urgent importance. One thing has to do with Mr. Diaselblum's statements. As far as Mr. Diaselblum's statements are concerned, please enjoy your friends, your partner is one of those who were supposed to be working to save the Greek economy. For us it was just a confirmation of how your partners see the Greek people and of course their attempts by the narcotic memorials, attempts, which have nothing to do with the development of the Greek economy, but have to do with a clear attempt to destroy the Greek people and impoverish them. And the worst of all is that we have not seen any response from a government representative to that statement. I was also surprised to hear from him last night on a regional channel that I heard was stunned, I would say, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Marda, to say that the Syrian immigrants who went to Germany were carrying 80 billion euros. Do you really know someone who comes from a country in war to be able to make this kind of money out of their country? And if that is true, why did the Greek Government give them money and continue to help them if these refugees had these funds supported by the Minister? It's really strange and unreasonable. Let's move on to the draft law. We heard at the second meeting - and this was indeed a surprise - one of the EBRD bodies, who argued that wages should be increased to prevent young people from leaving abroad, as well as recruitment. That justifies how earnestly they supported today's draft law. Yesterday, at the third meeting, the Minister, who is absent, should be here - said that our country is at a geostrategic hub in terms of telecommunications. Here I have a question from the Minister: is Greece a geostrategic hub only for telecommunications? Why don't you take advantage of this throughout your foreign policy so that you can claim what is really worthy of Greece? The Minister also said yesterday that all technical infrastructures have been developed with public support, intervention and supervision, because they could not be private. Is that why he's selling them? Let's move on to the amendments. I come to the amendment with a general number of 985 and a special 1. With this amendment, co-government is trying to make time, namely by 30 June 2017, to cover ELTA's financial obligations. It is known that the Hellenic Posts are to be included in the EDIS, at the Public Participation Company, one of the supermarkets of the national property. With this amendment, the government is attempting to resolve the financial problems of the Greek Posts that are "current" with a deficit of EUR 4.5 million per month. Golden Dawn will not vote for amendments which otherwise have no purpose but to resolve chronic problems in the public utilities, as in this case the Greek Post Office. The next parliamentary amendment, with a general number of 986 and a special 2, it would be a good thing, Minister, not to support it, but to be the Prime Minister himself to support it, because it was he who announced last week that the government would appoint a special state commissioner to oversee the functions of the company and to address its current shortcomings. The global organisation representing collective creative management organisations, CISAC and the organisation representing the European collective creative management organisations, GESAC, step up their efforts to help restore the problematic rights regime in Greece. ‘CISAC’ and ‘GESAC’ request the national collective management organisation, GDPI, to introduce urgent reforms in compliance with the global best practices of ‘CISAC’ and its professional rules. The Governing Council of ‘CISAC’ also evaluates new measures to address the findings of the recent state financial control of the GNI conclusion. These could include sanctions such as the elimination of GESC by a member of the ‘CISAC’ and ‘GESAC’. The views of the boards of directors of these two bodies were therefore developed in a letter sent to the administration of the GGI, expressing serious concerns about this situation between the community of collective management organisations that are creators around the world. These bodies are investigating various ways of ensuring that the creators in Greece end up with a transparent collective management organisation, which they will control with appropriate supervision and in which the rights received will end up with the creators who are entitled to them. However, here we have a number of objections to the amendment tabled. It is stated in the explanatory statement that the temporary commissioner undertakes the smooth collection by users and the reimbursement to beneficiaries of the amounts collected by the latter. How is that guaranteed, Minister? It also states on page 3 that the Interim Commissioner intervenes decisively by annulling any act or decision of the administration, which is necessary in order not to worsen the financial position of the Agency or to discontinue its operation. In other words, it will be cut and sewage as it wishes. He's got all his responsibilities. It will be a minister, essentially. The Temporary Commissioner will also be chosen by the Minister for Culture. He writes below what should be the criteria for his recruitment. But here, we believe that we will have another Karanika, who will even have the ability to recruit not only auxiliaries to assist his work, but also external legal or economic consultants. With this amendment, therefore, the relevant Ministry is attempting to resolve the problems, as I have said before, which have been created with regard to the problematic copyright regime. The legislative craving that has been created by the time-consuming cooperation of the respective Ministers of Culture and some of them as creators and record companies, so that the money of all kinds of businesses, from refreshments up to the kiosks, can be taken to a lasting pocket, must be brought to an end anyway. The national collective management organisation, GNI, has become particularly problematic and the fact is that the legislative framework, which regulates its operation, needs to be reviewed. It is clear, however, that, with such amendments proposing, as I have said, appointments to the relevant problems - as I have said before - temporary Commissioners and other assistants with an undetermined level of remuneration, will not solve the problems. Already, as I said before, 'CISAC', the global organisation, and 'GESAC', the European organisation have stepped up their efforts, but there is no light on the tunnel. The position of the Golden Dawn in what it has to do with GDPI is fixed. The inhabitants of villages of less than three thousand inhabitants should not pay and be charged with additional contributions. Plus, he recently passed a bill and was in force since the first month, according to which these villages have been charged and with additional insurance contributions, they have been charged with extra taxes. Look at you legislate as you should for the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u176	And we're managing time on your behalf. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being held from the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, twenty members of the Greek Guides House. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Sarakiotis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are today called on to discuss the first draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information. Initially, let me emphasise the importance of this ministry, the establishment of which has come to fill a gap for decades. The Governments of Postmoplasty used to give "gifts", which the Greek people are paying today, always taking care of the curiosity and the absence of an institutional framework, so that the responsibility would be rotated to low-grade organisations and never reaching political persons. A characteristic example was the digitisation of OTE's telephone centres by Siemens and INTRACOM between 1990 and 1997. The Ministry's recommendation therefore came to ensure that the responsibilities for the allocation of the broadly accepted digital "peak" are specific and that the initiatives also take place with a methodology structured and modern. This draft law puts Greece dynamically on the European Digital Charter with the incorporation of the European directive into Greek law, while it does not just stand there. It introduces all the necessary regulatory acts in order to ensure that the general guidelines laid down in the Directive are immediately and fully implemented and operationally. The risk is to provide better broadband coverage, as well as to reduce the cost of investment in the field of the installation of high-speed networks, electronic communications, all-known fibre. This objective is achieved through the coordination of the work of the civil engineering engineer, such as excavations, licences, the costs of which are the most important. As I said at the outset, what was missing for many years has been the effective management of the country's digital policy. The coordination of bodies is therefore the key, and that is precisely what is provided for in this draft law. Parallel benefits of such coordination will relate to the economic and environmental level, as well as to the preservation of social peace. It is reasonable to disrupt that is created in local communities with repeated periods of and long-term projects in city neighbourhoods, which is currently being addressed. Such work is now minimised, and there is an obligation for new buildings to be equipped with the necessary logistics infrastructure from the outset. This draft law therefore has a multi-dimensional meaning and value. It is certain that investment in the digital area is inconsistent, particularly for a country's budget in a multi-annual financial adjustment process. This is why it is clear that high-speed networks are constructed by providers based on their own investment plans and do not bear the State budget. Although we do not consider it to be a kind of luxury, we nevertheless recognise the impossibility of state funding. The Government should have helped create favourable reduced cost conditions in order to make investment in terms of telecommunications service providers more attractive. At a time when Greece is seeking investment to finance its economy, the cultivation of favourable conditions is not just a direct rule but an unnecessarily conditional one. The development of the economy cannot come through wishing or intelligence. It will come through the search for innovation, the entry into the European Digital Charter and the finding of future options. Furthermore, I would like to add that coordination of actions requires good institutionalised knowledge of reality. Therefore, this contributes to the Infrastructure Register, which will include all PPC, EEAS and telecommunications networks. The uncontrolled passage of all kinds of infrastructure without aiming, without control, without accountability and often at the expense of the relevant local government bodies. Each caused damage to the sidewalks and roads and the government, regions and municipalities knew nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, today Greece is a forerunner with regard to high-speed electronic communications networks. I dare say that it is self-destructive practice for a country that is in protracted recession not to invest in cutting edge technologies, especially if we consider the great human capital that we have and some of which, unfortunately, are often looking for its fate abroad. The operation of advanced telecommunications networks is today a bet perhaps greater than that of the construction of motorways. We live in the era of the information society, the high speeds, the remote applications such as telemedicine. We are not entitled to close our eyes in the face of stormy developments. For these reasons, I consider it self-evident and welcome the coexistence of almost all the political parties and political bodies on the issue of the effective acquisition of a national digital policy in line with the European acquis. I cannot understand how we are going to get out of the crisis when we cannot agree to it. So I am voting in favour of this bill, urging all parties and institutions of the democratic arc to take away micro-political purposes and now find a common area of understanding on the obvious and unnegotiable issues such as today's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, too. Mr Kyriazidis has the floor from New Democracy. The speakers point the way for Parliamentary representatives to keep track of the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, once again, while the Members of this House who came to this House in a way, I would say, were referring to and closed up with the need for consultation, as the Minister originally said, in his position in committee, there is at last a start to reach agreement, but then during the debate in the committees and today no one else can come up with anything else than that. It also appears from the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman who remembered, Mr Xydakis, the social arguments. I think we're in another era. We are, as has been pointed out here, in a digital era, but unfortunately we continue and operate in an old-fashioned way at every level and you only give the possibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u180	Old-time me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u181	I didn't tell you. I'm not talking to you. I said you're working - I'm not talking about you, but the reference to social beliefs I think...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u182	When was that said?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u183	You were gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u184	I was gone? It was never heard of social attitudes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u185	Tell Mr. Xydakis, he's right next to you. Ask Mr. Xydakis, colleague. Let's get to know each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u186	I said the Left was a pioneer in entrepreneurship throughout post-cultural Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u187	We don't remember that. Anyway, it's a reminder. But I'll say it and then, let's see all this. You see you continue to make an effort to establish a state-run way of operation at each level. And in this bill, my dear colleague, we see this old-fashioned way of intervention at political level, I mean, with the assignments. In the second part of Article 13 they are made. There is no bill that does not come a provision in the way of awards, which is by way of derogation of any legislation, Greek or European, in order to place your own people. After all, this is the case with the appointment of the party commissioner with regard to the amendment you have put forward this morning in relation to GDP. That's exactly what you did, isn't it? You're reappointing. In this way you are trying to do so and I would say in an unconstitutional manner, Mr Papoutsis, and again give the right to appeal - it is next - since this provision will be declared unconstitutional and there will be appeals. You will give time to those who may not - in introductory words - continue to produce what they produce to date, namely, no guarantee of the copyright of authors and users. It's a big deal. We'll see it then and we'll find it in front of us. Our side indicated a way. There is the Civil Code, there is this possibility for a legal person to be appointed in the way that the court decides, so that we do not have any other kind of issues. Besides, you're committed to a bill. We're engaging in this. Why do you not bring this and give time - that will happen, will you give time - to your 'adversary' with this amendment to resort? We'll have a waste of time at the expense of this whole case. Of course, I come to the issue of another amendment to the Greek Post Office. Unfortunately, you have also been late in this respect in the sense of the recognition of your obligations as a state but as a government today, the need for the proper functioning of Greek Posts. I have a decision - which I will submit - on a post office in a difficult area of our law, Drama, with three thousand inhabitants. From 15-2-2017 there is a suspension of operation of the postal store. The Minister is missing while he's committed. I believe that following today's amendment and the commitment of your financial obligations to the Greek Posts where they cooperate with this bank and make it easier for frontier regions to stay in these areas so that through this system - as we speak about the digital era - they can serve their obligations at every level, even on tax and other issues that the residents of these regions have. I want to believe there will be your intervention. I am also asking my question on this issue. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitris Kyriazides, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Minister is, of course, lacking, but he said that he would be involved in order to remain in a difficult, frontier municipality in the country precisely the need for this post office to function. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, too. Mr. Apostle Karastasis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law under discussion aims to incorporate the provisions of Directive 61 of the European Parliament into national law the measures to reduce the cost of installing high-speed electronic communications networks. The bill, of course, is a matter of substance and not a formal nature. According to data from the Hellenic Statistical Office, our country is lagging behind in many indicators of the 2020 Digital Agenda on the use of new technologies and electronic services. One of the most important reasons for deprivation is the lack of availability of broadband infrastructure, while this also affects the development of broadband by the public and by businesses. This Directive contributes to the achievement of the objectives of the Digital Agenda, as well as of the draft National Digital Strategy 2016-2020. In particular, two of the actions needed to implement the project’s priorities are focused on the areas of reducing investment costs for broadband installations and simplifying administrative procedures. The communication from the European Commission entitled ‘Digital Agenda for Europe’, which has been adopted by the Member States, includes two objectives relating to broadband, namely, by 2020, all citizens should be able to access broadband at speeds of at least 30 Mbps, while 50% of the population of each country should be connected to high-speed services of at least 100 Mbps. Our country has been lagging behind all these years in relation to the European average and any attempt to reduce the cost of infrastructure development, but also to simplify the related authorisation and joint use of infrastructures, it is expected to benefit significantly in the development of broadband infrastructures and to reach the European Union's ambitious objectives. Here, Mr President, I am opening a parable to remind the present colleagues of the Officerial Representation of the Prime Minister at the time, Mr Samaras, of giving free access to the Internet to all citizens by 2014, a commitment that continues to entertain the Greeks three years later. And so that the krone which has been launched at the committee's meeting will not be unanswered, but in today's plenary by colleagues from the Opposition that the current government is supposedly against technological development and does not support research as President of the Parliament's Committee on Research and Technology, I should like to point out that, as far as the sources of funding for research are concerned, public expenditure, which in spite of the crisis has increased in 2016 by 30%, is a very important amount. The Public Investment Programme increased from EUR 97 million in 2014 to EUR 148 million in 2016. A second source of funding is Horizon 2020, the Community Research Programme, Horizon 2020. There Greece - and I would ask you for that, because there has been too much criticism for Horizon - is now in the tenth place and in terms of attracting resources and attracting a number of programmes. We are between Austria and the Netherlands, which is very important. On the other hand, funding for research and innovation based on the smart specialisation strategy is quite high, EUR 1.2 billion for the seven years of the ESRB, which primarily supports what we call applied research. Recently, in order not to forget it, for 280m euros the "Creator - Research - Innovation", for which the Greek Institute for Research and Innovation was set up, the ELIDEK, which will support the country's research potential, which will be financed with 240m, of which 180m come from a contract with the European Investment Bank and is not for roads and bridges, but for research and innovation and the country's 60m from the country's Public Investment Programme. This is to restore the truth and I think that this is where the parentheses are closed. I'll say something else. What really is the aim of the review of the Officerial Response for the Minister's presence at meetings that support the digital convergence of our country abroad, which seems to have really been poor all these years? Do we have to be absent from these meetings? I think cheap political travel reports are bad for our country. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of high-speed electronic communications networks in our country - i.e. optical fibre, optical fibre - is an urgent need to implement the country's digital strategy. Moreover, in order to achieve the objectives of the Digital Agenda, it is necessary to have high-level networks as the end-user, while ensuring technological neutrality, in particular with physical infrastructure in the building that will be adapted to high speeds. So we see that it is necessary for optical fibres to be able to reach home as soon as possible, especially in businesses. In other words, 'Fiber for the Business' I think it is an important example of how this process should work. The importance of broadband infrastructure development has been recognised at a pan-European level, as studies show that it significantly benefits entrepreneurship and economic development, but also enables citizens by reducing the digital divide across the territory to participate equally in digital society, enjoying the benefits of new technologies and advanced electronic services offered in the field of health, education and others. Through broadband, citizens throughout the country will have access to reliable telematics, telemedicine, teleworking, and companies will be able to actively participate in the single digital market and reuse the existing physical infrastructure. Our aim, ladies and gentlemen, is to limit or eliminate digital illiteracy. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all laws are passed with good intention to meet the sufficient needs of society and the state. How quickly, faithfully and efficiently they are implemented is what justifies them or dispossessed them. Therefore, a resolution directly related to this law and a direct application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u190	The Parliamentary Representative of the River Mr George Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you, of course, and my colleague, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party, who gave me his turn. Ladies and gentlemen, you will probably not know this, but for the fifth time the competition that ERT has launched for the procurement of three hundred and twenty digital transmitters has come down to set up its own digital network. As you know - and this is something that your government had made a flag, Minister, according to the pre-electionist and post-election rhetoric for a period of six months - the ERT was "paying" - words of policies of your own party - a pimp in DIGEA and still paying, I would say, almost EUR 2 million per year, to be hosted on the DIGEA digital platform. Yes, sir! Before you came to power, you said that the previous on purpose did not allow ERT to proceed with the procurement of digital transmissions to become dependent on the "DIGEA" and develop its own Bouquet. Despite the fact that you are not the minister responsible, but I imagine you will pass it on to Mr Papa, I ask you, Mrs Conniordos: why, for the fifth time, does the competition break down twice in your term of office? I will give you the information, the objective information and look for the good colleagues. The Court of Auditors therefore found that there were errors in the drafting of the notice and thus, once again, ERT remains without the dowry of its digital transmissions. In April, now, is the end of the ERT contract with DIGEA, and I ask you this: will you renew it or not? Yes or no? And I would like to ask, does the staff who draw up the ERT notices - which are ultimately wrong, as the Court of Auditors shows us - have responsibilities? And who is it? Does he have a name? I'm waiting for answers. I would also remind you that Mr Michalitsis, ERT's General Technology Manager, in April 2016 in a committee that had come, when I asked him persistently on the subject of the ERT's digital platform, told me at the time that "we are committed that within 2016 ERT will be rehabilitated by DIGEA" and will cease to give these 2 million euros a year". So what are you guys doing? I'm asking you. I will, of course, follow the subject of ERT, as I do, and I will be waiting for answers. If the Minister responsible, Mr Papapas, does not find time or what I say to him to give an answer, I will come back with a timely question until the second presence, until I get answers. Who is the official, who should control the official who draws up notices which are written in such a way that where ERT goes to proceed with the supply of digital transmissions, something is done - and - of the miracle - of the wrist and from the beginning, another rent of about 2 million euros from ERT to DIGEA. Let's go later now. I now come to the general political topicality. For many months now, when we have been discussing a draft law, or if we are going to ratify an international convention, the Minister of Finance has been negotiating somewhere, the government representative is announcing dates for the conclusion of the agreement, for the closure of the evaluation. But it all doesn't work. Greece seems to be locked between Hilton and Brussels. Your government is sinking into the bourgeoisie and is trapped in the inefficiency of some - not to say enough - of its ministers. But the economy is not a game. The economy has its own rhythms and times. So I inform you that today the American investment bank of Citigroup announced on the side of its forecasts of the country's financial data. For 2017, the US investment house now predicts that GDP growth will be at most half a unit. I remind you that the country's budget coordinates with the Treasury, talks about 2.7% growth. But the worst part is not that. The worst is that the markets according to the study of this large investment house - and I fear in the same perspective and many others, because it is based on economic elements - say you forget Greek markets by 2021. This is therefore a grim economic reality, a future not at all pleasant. Your Potami had warned in time that the tactics of delays only to say that you practice proud and cruel negotiation, only damage can cause. Here it was quickly necessary for the benefit of the Greek economy and the open Greek society to become the closure of the evaluation. In November 2016 - I remind you - the Prime Minister was calling on the ministers to close all the fronts of the evaluation by 6 December and said at that time that they should be resting. Four months later, in today's assessment is open, the requirements of creditors have risen up because economic sizes are falling, weakened - and so much more creditors are asking to cover the economic openings - and the real economy, unfortunately, has returned to the recession. So the real economy is hitting alarms. But I'm afraid you're deaf. The bells you're listening to are not the bells of imaginary development, supposed to come from Easter last year. Do you remember the prime minister's saying? Easter 2016 -- he was telling us -- we're going to have a resurrection of the economy. And here we are at a protracted Great Week. We're in a epitaph that lasts for fourteen months. Only today, the Bank of Greece announced that the ceiling that the Greek system banks may and requested from the exceptional mechanism, ELA, to raise additional capital, increased by EUR 400 million. Ten days ago the banks had asked for another EUR 300 million. These are signs, they're indicators, they're red lights on the road that show you something's wrong. And unfortunately, a lot doesn't work out. Because the deterioration in the market is visible and every week we see this. The consumption of basic species - you would read the statistical bulletins - has fallen. Even milk has fallen. Are the Greeks suddenly drinking less milk? Why, what happened to them? Were they intolerant? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So the Prime Minister must finally take decisions. In 2015, we had the phenomenon - not to describe it - Baroufakiads, which led us to the point where we were led. Today I'm very afraid we're going for relapse. We will reminisce Varoufakias and we will say "Okay, it was an impenetrable period and not as damaging" as it comes, if you do not finally move quickly and correctly, even after such a long delay, because the amount of measures is rising and the world will pay for them. The international balances are unfortunately changing at the expense of our country and we see that the country begins and is isolated from its traditional partners. At the same time, however, in some other things you are stable and do not lift a fly on your sword, such as the gold one, Yiannis wins - Yannis drinks, the increases that senior government officials - appointed by you - to themselves and, of course, unlocked party positions and poster appointments. The country is exhausted, Greece is exhausted, the Greeks have been immersed by lies and they want truths, but also action, to move forward. However, no one knows what you are finally negotiating and what you will finally agree to and sign. The only thing for sure is that instead of tearing the memorials, as you were telling us, you have condemned the country to an additional and I fear an endless austerity cycle since 2018 and then this is your signature, Tsipras - Kammenos. That is why I would say that it is time for you Government MPs in particular to decide, in private, and to express to me and to other colleagues your concerns, your pressure, your anxiety about the conclusion of the negotiation, move and press. You have responsibilities too. The ministers may take it "saly, sanctuary becomes the honey porcupine", but the Greek society is not waiting, it is close to rotting from your own inactivity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, too. Mr. George Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u193	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this first-hand technical bill opens the way to the country's entry into the field of broadband and digital technology, namely, in the field of fibre optics, in the field of the new generation networks, which have very high speeds and contain a huge volume of data and information. This field applies throughout the range of economic and social activities, such as infrastructure, agriculture, medicine, manufacturing, education, traffic, meteorology, work, innovative services and the daily life of the citizen in general. The fact that, according to the relevant indicators, our country has a huge delay in relation to the European average means that Greece must immediately implement actions that meet not only the European Union's upgraded strategic goals, but also the need for the country to go to the new era of broadband and digital technology. Any attempt to reduce infrastructure development costs, as well as simplifying the relevant authorisation procedures and the joint use of infrastructures, should benefit significantly the development of broadband infrastructures and bring the country's ambitious development targets closer to them. In this context, the need to promote and vote for this legislative initiative arises from the country's obligation to incorporate the relevant Community directive provisions into the national network while contributing to the achievement of the objectives of the recent National Digital Strategy 2016-2020. This is how the national commitment and the goal of reducing administrative burdens are achieved by using information and communication technologies in the process of granting rights, transit through the information system, whose function is a key element in achieving this objective. The draft law does not merely incorporate the directive, but is accompanied by all the necessary regulatory instruments, so that the provisions of the directive are immediately and fully operational and enforceable. The present draft law provides for cooperation between operators on the establishment and use of material infrastructures for high-level electronic communications networks in existing infrastructures, as well as facilitating their installation in new infrastructures by establishing certain minimum rights and obligations. This is therefore a rational draft law with a specific social effect, a reduction in costs and the dissemination of new technologies across society. The draft law establishes a number of measures and regulations aimed at making more effective use of existing infrastructures and reducing obstacles to the execution of new civil engineering projects by providers. In this context, the possibility is for electronic communications providers - telecommunications networks - to be able to request access to existing gas, electricity, heating, water supply - with the exception of drinking water - railways, roads, ports and airports. In particular, all relevant procedures to be followed by an electronic communications provider to request access to the infrastructures and criteria to be examined for their acceptance or rejection by the operators of the existing infrastructure are defined. In order to facilitate the coordination of technical projects, an obligation is created for operators carrying out, or planning to carry out new infrastructure projects, to have information on such projects through a single web portal information point. This information relates to the specific elements of the projects. Alongside these provisions, the procedure for granting transit rights is fully regulated, without the need for joint ministerial decisions or other secondary legislation. And in the event of no agreement being reached between electronic communications providers and operators of existing infrastructures, the matter is addressed to the national dispute resolution body, which the draft law defines as the National Telecommunications and Post Committee. In addition, for the interconnection of end-users with the high-speed networks there is a set of forecasts so that new buildings can be easily interconnected with them - the very high-speed telecommunications networks. In old buildings where there are no necessary facilities for providers to have the necessary equipment installed in public or public areas. Finally, in order to facilitate the connection of end-users with the high-speed networks, all buildings whose application for a building licence was submitted after 31-12-2016 must have specific specifications, namely physical infrastructure within the building, adapted to high speeds and access point within the building accessible to the providers, through which the connection to the high-speed material infrastructure of the building is ensured. In conclusion, this is a bill which, through its regulations, constitutes an umbrella for what we as SYRIZA government seek, the country's socially just production reconstruction. To conclude, I will make a comment on what the rapporteur, in particular, said in New Democracy, but also Members of the New Democracy and PASOK, said. What they said is confirmed is that they are holding opposition to the opposition. While they agree with bills - and this one - starting with legitimate objections - they address questions and make views on everything in science and, indeed, expose me to criticism and unreasonable expressions and irony. Furthermore, I would say that the custodial syndrome for governance in both New Democracy and PASOK is also confirmed. However, I think that you will be waiting very long, ladies and gentlemen of the counter-population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u194	Mr Alexandros Meikopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u195	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to make a general comment which, in my opinion, also photographs the substance of this draft law, namely that despite the narrow financial environment, despite the narrow financial constraints of the committee, there are areas of intervention with low or low financial costs, which can create positive conditions for the daily lives of citizens. If we can take out the main and most important feature of this bill is that it promotes a 'fruit' - in introductory terms the word - quickly and with minimal social nuisance to develop by bringing the country closer to the information and knowledge society. In fact, time and money is being saved, data is now valuable for the country's economy, and the most important thing is that the development of the bill will have a direct and positive social sign, since access to high speeds throughout the country is provided, including even remote and mountainous areas that are currently in what we would call "a peculiar digital poverty". We all know, therefore, that the existing network of the country consists of a copper network which, unlike the fibre that is a new generation network, cannot raise the very high speeds required by the European Union directive. In order to reduce the costs of installing these optical fibre networks, electronic communications providers are allowed to request access to existing infrastructures. These are the natural gas, electricity, heating, water supply systems - but only in sewerage systems and not drinking water - but also railways, roads, ports and airports. In this way, then, we help to create economies of scale and give the funds for the installation to be invested in their development. Another important point is that speed is achieved in handling cases, since the time of examining the suppliers' requests, in order to naturally request access to the abovementioned infrastructure, cannot exceed two months. So when, to give an example, 75% - 80% of the cost for the construction of telecommunications networks is related to the cost of excavation works and the cost of engineering structures, it is very easily understood that using existing infrastructures, this costs are now being minimised. Concentrating additional time periods and the procedure for the application of providers, it is automatically gaining significant time in the implementation of the projects. This is how we achieve social, economic and environmental benefit. At this point, I would particularly like to focus on the establishment of the Electronic Networks Register which will be kept at the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information. The draft law therefore explicitly stipulates that all existing infrastructure operators have an obligation to submit to the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information in electronic form elements of their infrastructure, with the aim of imprinting all of the country’s network infrastructures. These data are kept in the Network Register and thus an easy and reliable account is made of existing infrastructures, which could support the development of broadband networks. The creation of the Electronic Network Register is also combined with the establishment of the Single Information Point. The Single Information Point is a portal held by the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information. In this way, the State is now taking the lead in the development of the digital economy both in terms of equal access to it throughout the territory and in terms of the best economic and social result. In particular, the establishment of fast-track electronic communications networks enables significant changes in both the public and private sectors. In the public sector, there is the possibility of more efficient interaction between public services by means of automated procedures to improve and simplify the State services for citizens, as well as businesses and thus help to increase productivity, efficiency and also at the same time reduce public sector support costs. So we also have a financial benefit from this. At the same time, new applications and services are available, which will have a very significant positive impact on the effort to provide high-level education and research activities. Of course, they are also the health benefits. So the reduction in the cost of installing high-speed electronic communications networks gives, as I said before, the possibility of developing private enterprises by simplifying the process, introducing into it in the new digital environment, implementing new advanced and efficient mechanisms for advertising and promoting their products and services, without, of course, creating a geographical barrier. It is internationally recognised that the development of e-commerce activities can reverse data on the competitiveness of enterprises. On the Internet portal, operators carrying out or planning new infrastructure projects shall have an obligation to have information on such projects. This makes it easier for projects to coordinate directly and effectively. In addition to the time-consuming conclusion of the process of examining the suppliers' requests and the electronic recording of existing infrastructures, another very important aspect of the draft law, which I would like to stress, is the introduction of the obligation for operators carrying out infrastructure projects fully or partly financed by the public to meet requests made by electronic communications providers to coordinate their technical projects. Basically, the introduction of mandatory electronic communications networks enables providers to install their infrastructure during the construction phase of major projects, such as road projects, and in this way the cost of installing the networks is significantly reduced. The creation of high-speed broadband networks in the country, and indeed by using the existing infrastructures, is therefore being discussed over the last 10 years, without any significant progress being made in this respect. So, what's the recital? The development and creation of fibre optic networks which can carry high speeds to the end-user are planned and organised in detail. In fact, the creation of these networks is based on a unique approach, the savings of resources and time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I mentioned from the outset that there is a specific social footprint in this bill and very clear, that the right conditions are finally created for all citizens to have access to very high-speed telecommunications networks, which other European citizens have enjoyed for many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u196	Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary Representative of the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Although it is a bill that is actually passed by all the parties on the Euromoney, we have seen today this theater of irrationalism, the government and Civicism, but also the other parties, disagree and fight, not on the substance of the bill, but on the issues that concern them how to fool and deceive, how the popular strata and popular discontent between Scylla and Harybd. The government claims to be negotiating and negotiating hard. We do not doubt that it is negotiating, and indeed too hard to negotiate, but the negotiation it is making is how, with the least possible resistance and reactions, it will be possible to implement the new escalation of the anti-grass attack, the new barbaric measures which are planned in the direction of fiscal consolidation and, on the other hand, to protect and shield the interests of business groups in a period of uncertain capitalist revival. On the other hand, the rest of the anti-population parties force the government to close the negotiation quickly, i.e. move quickly to the second assessment and escalation of the anti-population attack. After all, government and opposition have agreed within the framework and its policy strategy, and this was reflected by the attitude of these parties in August 2015 by the resolution of the third memorandum, a negotiation which, of course, reflects the deepening of the individual conflicts between the various imperialist centres, particularly in the United States, on the one hand, and Germany, which are individual objections to the sharing of profits from this uncertain recovery and the damage from the management of huge government debts and also huge private debts. It reflects the fact of uncertain capitalist recovery and unequal results. However, despite the individual contradictions that the United States and Germany may have with Germany, for example, together with the International Monetary Fund, the European Union, the European Central Bank, as a whole, are planning the measures that are breaking the remaining labour rights, are breaking the satisfaction of the people's needs in the altar of the profitability of capital and capitalist development. After all, these contradictions reflect the debate on the future of the European Union, where in times of crisis the centrifuges are growing as a result of the exacerbation of unequivocals at the level of the European Union itself. That is why there are various models for the steps that the European Union will take next time. However, all of this cannot reflect the fact that these discussions and various models cannot disguise and cancel the character of the European Union, a European Union, which is an transnational association of capitalist states at regional level and which has been formulated and historically created in order to safeguard the interests of capital. In other words, it is the wolf alliance of capital, and this character has not changed and will not change. What is being done and made gradually reflects the correlation of forces at political level is that it becomes even more reactionary, even more dangerous, because it reflects the rotation and reactivation of the capitalist system itself. So the claims, which are now being heard, but which have been heard a lot more strongly in the past, that progressive reforms of the capitalist system may have occurred, are fraudulent, utopias, political fraud, because it is precisely capitalism that is not humanized and the European Union itself as a wolf alliance will never change and Europe will never become a common home of the peoples while monopolies and capitalism dominates dominate. Such perceptions lead to disarmament and manipulation of the labour movement. Thus, in the JRC's opinion, the fulfilment of the people's needs, the protection and improvement of the position, but also the rights of the working class, conflicts with Euro-Union law, conflicts with the so-called 'Euro-Union social acquis'. Only in this way can the historic role of the working class be played to overthrow the capitalist system and build socialism - communism. Minister, you have criticised the JRC in relation to who is the manager of a policy and that we do not see any differences. We believe there are differences. And differences have to do with who is the most capable of implementing the anti-grassroots measures, meeting the needs and strategies of capital and at the same time manipulating the movement. We would expect you to be a little more ingenious in your argument, with the comparison between Sweden and Chile, to put more difficult arguments into us and not to resort to old ideologies at the moment, in fact, when we are discussing digital innovation. You're not that innovative than it looks. Why do we say that? Because, of course, they are different levels of capitalism's development, different levels of growth of productive forces, labour productivity, which cannot be compared, but they do not deny that there is a capitalist system in both of them. The exploitation is the second feature. We cannot undo that Sweden itself and its economic miracle, for example, was based on the exploitation of wealthy sources of other peoples and states. In Argentina, Latin America, she ripped out all the forests so that she could develop her known wood. We cannot go back to history and not say that the Social Democratic Government itself has handed over the German nazis to have this Swedish miracle. And we cannot be tempted to say that any issues relating to workers' conquests in Sweden were the result of the power and example of the Soviet Union, the socialist system and the conquests of the labour movement. Today there are no such things. Today, these conquests are overthrown both in Sweden and in Germany and elsewhere, as in Greece, by the barbaric predicament of the interests of capitalists. And we say that you are not so innovative, because the bill you are bringing us here to integrate the European directive is based on precisely and complements the Memorandum of 2012. What is it actually doing? It implements the European Union's strategy on innovation, broadband networks and high-tech networks. To what end? Not that we are against new technology, against innovation and digitisation. Not at all. But who makes use of them and what purpose is the matter, Minister? And here it is clear that they are being exploited in order to shield the needs of capital and to enhance its profitability and at the same time to further merchandise the needs of the people's family, creating even greater contradictions in the Greek society itself, further increasing the distance between the possibilities for satisfying the people's needs and to what a people's family can actually satisfy. And we say this, because through this process, through the bill you want to promote two interrelated axes: Firstly, you want to regulate competition between groups active in telecommunications. A number of provisions promote this common use of infrastructure. A legislative regulation, which then comes, essentially seals the achievement of the agreement made by the monopolies, the monopolies of the telecommunications sector. This agreement has been registered in an EBA text since the beginning of the year. It is an agreement, which came after the central agreement made by "VODAFONE" with the German State in the autumn of 2016 on how broadband and networks will be distributed. It is this agreement between the monopolistic groups, which has been made for the internal market, that you are now coming to ratify by law and put the boulder as well. Secondly, you want to speed up the promotion of new investment in telecommunications, in particular by facilitating the use of these infrastructures, public housing areas and groups for the installation of telecommunications equipment, wireless and wireless, both in terms of new broadband networks and new wireless technologies. So from this point of view, it is obvious what you want to make it easier. You want to facilitate precisely the investment projects of the monopolistic groups that operate there rather than make them difficult. From this point of view, you do not question the general trend, the general position, the European Union's strategy to liberalise telecommunications. Besides, for the strategic choice of liberation there is a accumulated experience, to see its results. Firstly, it facilitated the action in favour of accumulated capital. Secondly, it has shaped painful conditions for workers themselves through the intensification and overthrow of industrial relations. And thirdly, it provides a much more expensive result for users of these services or goods. For example, electricity and its liberation. For example, their transport and their liberation. More so, the development of productivity and new technologies facilitates cheaper access to such services. Therefore, greater commercialisation of people's needs - and communication is a popular need - cannot combined satisfy the needs of the people's family for communication. Secondly, the fact that the groups themselves have reached a geographical distribution agreement for high-speed infrastructures, but also for joint-use agreements, leads to even greater monopolisation of the telecommunications sector with negative results, both for workers in the industry and for the public family as a whole. The third element is that the projects that you are promoting are based on the profitability of business groups, a profitability that is certainly counterfacting the satisfaction of the people's needs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In this respect, therefore, workers and people's strata and households will be even more burdened with additional costs of compulsory incorporation into infrastructure and construction of high-speed connectivity elements, and much more so that you use public projects to promote such solutions as well, subjecting public projects to the infrastructure for high-speed networks. From this point of view, we say that the solution to the people and to communication, in a communication right, requires a different form of development with social property. These issues of liberalisation and competitiveness are also seen in the logic of the amendment that you have brought for post office as a universal service. At a time when the liberalisation of postal services is being promoted, at a time when the public nature of this service is actually being abolished and transformed into public limited companies for the purpose of privatising or introducing it on the Stock Exchange, you are now coming to support ELTAs financially so that they can have a better financial situation. Of course, we will vote for the amendment. We say, however, that you are doing so at a time when postal services not only are not guaranteed as a social service of general provision, but on the contrary it can facilitate this amendment, this financing of having better economic data to make it more attractive for them to be privatised. Finally - and I close with that, Mr President - we want to ask the present Minister for Culture two questions. First of all, you are so long here and you have not told us whether you will accept this amendment. You haven't been placed yet to put us in. I will ask you a question, Minister, and take it seriously, so that we know what attitude we will take. In this context, you are not only talking about GDPI in this amendment. Of course, there must be control over GDP. Here you are generally talking about collective management organisations. Such collective management organisations are not only the GNI. There are also collective management organisations. You leave the door open for them to do such things? I want you to make it clear to us. Because this, as it is formulated, raises too many questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u198	Well, the Minister will make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u200	Mr. Nikolaos Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. On the substance of the bill introduced by the Minister for Digital Policy, Mr. Nikos Pappas, a great deal has been said. There has been a thorough work, and I think in the committee too, and very much everyone has agreed. Today, some variations have been made. I don't know all about it in the background of the arguments. But it is not my job at Stepma at this time to place myself on the bill, but on an amendment which tries to make a first intervention in the disturbed and shattered landscape of the right to intellectual property, which I would like, after giving the substance and spirit of this first legislative initiative taken by the government and the parliamentary group, to give some answers to some of the concerns of colleagues in the opposition. Of course, we are all aware of the state of music, copyright and how concerned the whole world of composers and stigmatists, of all the creators, are today. We have a large public limited company, which, under the 1993 Act, receives copyright and distributes it to the beneficiaries, which has, on this route since 1993, consolidated the institutional framework, been subject to control for the first time, as the law laid down. In February 2017, the findings were given of the audit that caused the prosecutor's intervention, the prosecutor's investigation, which currently investigates six felonies, a flood, has frozen the accounts of the owners of the company, the shareholders. A week later, it was finalized and we learned of the court's decision on an appeal to the Competition Authority since 1997. It took twenty years to finalise a decision on the rights of mechanical reproduction, on the premiums and cds that used to enter the newspapers. From the creators who appealed at that time, one has said goodbye to us, the great composer Nikos Mamagakis, but the others are present, active and demanding that the state put an end to this hostage of artists and put a order in the market and in the institutional framework and restore peaceful, smooth and mutually trusting relationship between users and creators. That is the political framework, ladies and gentlemen. This has been disturbed in recent years by permanent mistrust and suspicion of mismanagement. And this seems to have revealed the check carried out between 2015 and 2017, over the days of our Government, and this is what the prosecutor is investigating. At the moment we have a collecting mechanism, the mechanism of all copyright, which is threatened with collapse. Users rightly threaten with a posture of payments, which they cannot do, because they will not be able to lawfully use music. The authors and the beneficiaries are concerned because they lose the only source of revenue, because there is no record anymore. There's only the copyright. And in this afflicted process and this disparity that exists, we come from reality and from developments with the political will and the debt that we have towards both the users and the authors and the beneficiaries and the entire Greek society, to put a class. I also listened carefully to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, who is a very experienced legal officer and had some objections or thoughts. I think that at the moment Parliament's debt is to create laws, make order and help people move forward with their work, whether they have bars or have a radio station, or wherever they use music. The solution that this amendment gives is temporary in order to save the mechanism and faith in the market. The law is almost ready. The Minister has promised that he will be brought to Parliament, we will discuss it, we will work together, if you want to intervene, but the situation that has been created by the breakdown and a threatened collapse must lead us to act immediately, as we have a responsibility. It is our duty to the hundreds of creators who are concerned and struggling. It is our duty to the great, the wonderful craftsmanship of the Greek song that sustains Greek everyday life even in the years of the crisis. It is our duty to the Greek people who are the main user and maker of the Greek song. In the middle of the 19th century, a great romantic, Spyridon Zampelios, took off his famous essay: "Everywhere the common word: I sing", to find that the municipal song comes from - to interpret it - from ancient tradition, from tragedy. Song - tragedy. This wonderful interpretative acronym is the creation of the body of modern Hellenism and the song is one of the elements that keep the Greekism upright, creative and push it towards the future. And at these critical moments we are with the artists, we hear the artists, we hear the composers, we hear the stigmatists, we hear the Greeks singing. I call on my fellow Members to understand both the symbolic and the essential weight of this mission, the lot that has been received from us and also to support the provisional amendment on the interim solution and the law that will come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u202	Thank you. For those, of course, who have a bar, Mr. Diselblum may enter! Mr. Maniatou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u203	I will speak for a minute, Mr President. First of all, I do not understand the amendment concerning the Ministry of Culture on why this is not an amendment tabled by the Ministry, the Minister. If what I think is the case, that we want to save the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, I can understand it. If anything else is going on, I would also ask you to tell us why our relevant department in the field of culture has been completely negative on an issue that could be solved differently. The second, Mr President, is the question of the ELTAs and I address the Minister. You know very well, Minister, that when the capital of a public limited company falls below 1/3 of the share capital, there is a reason to withdraw the licence of the public limited company. I am therefore referring to the ELTAs, their accounting data and the inevitable possibility that the relevant department in the Attica region should be obliged to withdraw the licence because of a residual element. I would therefore like to ask you this, following on from the amendment you have tabled, which is half a step and I think you can take another step in a better direction. Can we, as a Parliament, treat this amendment as a first approach to the government, which will make every effort to take a second step towards the maximum amount, which the administration of the ELTA is asking for as a reward for services of general interest, to deal with as such, yes or no? I ask it so that my question should be recorded in the Minutes and your answer too should be recorded in the Minutes. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u205	I would like to solve the reasonable question of my colleague, Mr Maniatis, but also the mistaken impression that my colleague Mrs Charas Kefalidou had previously. The parliamentary amendment obviously does not go through the General Accounting Office of the State. It is written in the amendment that not only does no public expenditure arise, but the costs of the Commissioner are borne by the body which he administers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u206	It won't be discussed if it doesn't pass...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u207	You're welcome, Mr. Javarra. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u208	I would like to stress that, after a series of government interventions, to finally open up the issue of the Greek song for decades and which everyone knows, but no one dared to deal with it, we have now reached the draft law in the General Accounting Office of the State, it has come to the Ministry of Culture and it has been given financial services and its approval takes its way to Parliament. This is the main and most important job, which we have worked very carefully and responsibly on. The interim amendment came to cover the agonizing voice of the authors, who saw their revenue lost through the complete deregulation of the market, the refusal of users to pay their rights and the complete collapse of confidence in the anonymous company after the conclusion that we are all aware of it. It is a temporary provision and does not replace the main law, in which the Commissioner's choice will be made by the court on the basis of a list of people of unknown prestige, covering the qualifications that the Commissioner should have. Therefore, the duration of this interim provision is until the law passes, the body of the creators is strengthened, the supervisory board, which will have decisive powers and thus now determine the course of the anonymous company and their rights. I would like to say that I agree with this amendment as it has been tabled and I approve it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Nikolaos Pappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u210	Needless to say, the amendment is accepted to be incorporated into the draft bill. I want to give Mr. Maniots an answer. I fully support 'yes'. It is the first step towards the recognition of the state's obligations towards the universal service provider, and I would also like to add that our services have worked unreservedly so that the debts to the ELTAs, which exist from other ministries, can begin to collect them. In a very short time, 7 million from the General Secretariat of Information, because, as you know, the ELTAs have been charged with the work of distributing the press to the services of the Government, the Ministries, etc. This is already under way and we are in contact with the other ministries so that these debts can be repaid. It's obvious. And here I would like to invite you personally and your party to have the necessary communications so that the Agency can be protected, because I can see that this is the direction by forces far wider than the government's majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u211	The Minister has the floor to make a further clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u212	I would like to make a clarification as to Mr Karathanasopoulos's question as to whether this temporary amendment relates to other collective management organisations. There is no indication of serious management problems in other organisations or any complaint from the Intellectual Property Organisation. Therefore, this amendment does not concern other organisations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u213	The Parliamentary Representative of the Association of Centres, Mr Marios Georgiadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u214	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again we will protest as a Centro Association for the unauthorised phenomenon of draft laws which come as urgent or urgent and are in fact not. For months now this procedure should have ended, even though it might have cost the reference to our country and, as the Minister said, it should have been voted yesterday, that is, 22 March. The Minister spoke to the committee about rich material in the consultation that took time to process it and to integrate it into the draft law. I will inform you, therefore, that on the website of opengovernment, consultation, there are only six comments and not nine, as you say in the draft law, from only four commentators, of whom three are suppliers. I submit a related page of the links in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here I would remind you that in the past there have been several drafts of laws to vote for with hundreds of comments from commentators and all went smoothly, without having indulgences and magnifying them and having done a really great job. So as the Ministry admits in the text of the draft law, for all these six comments from the four commentators two consultation coordinators were placed, a contact person, a commentator and a report editing team, which is to be a group of at least two people. So we're talking about six people minimum. In other words, to understand it better, the Ministry placed six people to comment on each other obviously and to see what is going on with the comments, for six months and make six comments. Minister, we are all aware here that it would certainly be more productive - without, of course, when you set up this committee and this group to know that there would be only six comments, but you probably saw during the course of what was happening - and more constructive if these six people were actually working to prevent the deadlines and not to reach the last minute, rather than one, to vote on the draft law in question. We were also informed that a committee, a relevant working group since 2015, was set up to complete its work in April 2016. After processing and incorporating these six comments, he delivered them to final and improved text to the Legislative Committee. In fact, we are all wondering what all these people have done these six months and have not been able to deliver the comprehensive draft law. What could this legislative committee have done, by taking a directive, which is actually a blindman and should simply be translated and given that the repealed or amended provisions are only fourteen? Why did we have all this shit? And after all, I have a question: How has Cyprus managed to incorporate this directive into its law from 14-10-2016 with v.104, that is, five months earlier? I put forward a document in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I now come to the draft law itself. It is a fact that our country, unfortunately, has remained quite back on online and web issues. Until a few years ago OTE was a state monopoly and this contributed to multiple anomalies in the installation of communications networks. When it was decided to get rid of the state monopoly on communications, OTE was already a giant. It takes huge sums of investment from anyone and any private company to compete with the giant called OTE at the moment and it makes sense. OTE has already dug all over Greece and installed its network. The private initiative of the providers has now been limited: "We are building a telecommunications service provider and we are relying on the OTE network for this service. And not only that, but because OTE has numerous intellectual potential and appropriate funds, it also takes over the maintenance and changes of its network, on which private providers are founded." Thus, the Greek market was based on the following funny way: the customer receives alpha or beta private provider from the dozens available and selects him for alpha or beta speech, economic reason, because of the speedy broadband and so on. The provider shall inform the customer of the time when the installation is to take place in its place. And the client sees the OTE employee and his crew going to do the installation of the line and wonders why OTE came in, since the private client pays another company. Simplifiedly, because it is a set-up - as it is - it is a very difficult situation for private companies to deal with the lines for the reasons I have just mentioned. We could discuss various trade union privileges, pensions and all that burdens our insurance system to date, but it is not at the moment. Greece, therefore, as a consequence of all the above, is consistently well below the Eurozone average at the rate of penetration of broadband connections. Even today the situation is frustrating. According to EUROSTAT, Greece is at 68% penetration of broadband network connections, exceeding only 63% of Bulgaria. All the other countries are beyond us, even of the former Eastern bloc, who have not even three decades come out of the former communist regime. I submit a table in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Even today we are talking, in regions of Athens and the municipalities bordering the capital, people have problematic connections to primitive online speeds over the past decades. This tragic situation is also a clear impact on the Internet penetration of the citizens of the country. And that is where we are below the European Union's average, when in Northern Europe the percentages tend to be 100%. I am tabling a relevant article on this. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Networks for the provision of electronic services are not optional, nor is it about fun or some hobby. We're talking about work, about production, about investment. The lack of technological infrastructure is something that prevents a foreign production unit from coming and setting up here. The draft law we are debating today solves a number of problems relating mainly to the competences of the services in the process of installing the network lines. This is a Community directive with which, of course, we must be harmonized. However, because we have experience from the Greek state and the Greek public sector, we see some points in the implementation of which are likely to result in many problems in the activity of private providers. For example, Article 28- in paragraph 4- of Law 4070/2012 states that the National Telecommunications and Post Committee is recommending to the Minister of Infrastructure, Transport and Networks and the Co-Presponding Ministers the granting of rights for crossing lines to a provider. In turn, the ministers will determine the method of collecting fees, the recipient of recovery and 'every possible detail'. First of all, if they are to carry out such work politically, what does the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts need? The Commission is an independent administrative authority and is the national regulator. It is composed of valuable and experienced individuals and experts in the field of networks and telecommunications. In letter the statutes of the Authority include: firstly, the purchase of electronic communications, in which fixed and mobile telephony, wireless communication and Internet and, secondly, the postal market in which postal and postal services companies operate. In addition, the EBRD also exercises the powers of the Competition Committee on those markets. It is therefore worthy of wonder why they are defined by the draft law as responsible political actors, and it is so technocratic. Why does he have to sign the entire Ministerial Council if he wants to cross lines? They are questions that we, as the Central Association, cannot understand. The State at most could decide the cost calculation methodology, since public spaces are concerned. This methodology should be submitted to the independent committee authority, which will have the power to apply it by letter. Why, in other words, every time for every telecommunications investment, should we wait for the signature of each Minister from the Ministry concerned? I do not want to believe in any case - and I mean it, of course - that this is the occasion for some bad languages, which say about hatred, corruption, rumours and so on. In any case, I don't think there's any such thing. There is also talk of archaeological sites. We agree, of course, that it is self-evident that a provider cannot dig recklessly in an archaeological site. What do we do, however, if a state agency for ideologies, for example, discovers archaeological sites where they do not exist? We remember the case of the Greek area that was characterized as an archaeological site, even the runway of landing and take-off of aircraft, in order not to proceed with the investment. I am tabling a relevant article in the Minutes. And that is not just the case. There's the question of Rhodes' Afantus. I am making another relevant article. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Georgiadis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned articles, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We are talking about areas which, until now, were used normally and now suddenly archaeological sites emerged. These are, unfortunately, the ideoleptic claws, which the SYRIZA Government has been through in many bills - are carried into every bill - and we must be particularly careful when such conditions are being used. Ladies and gentlemen, of course we must - and I close with this - follow European legislation and align ourselves with it. We just need to improve our reflexes a little, and not end up at the last minute voting on 'almost five'. The Centro Association is an ally and will be an ally in the adoption of European acquired rights, but it will be against the government when it comes to a client state and corruption. With this in mind, we are voting in favour of this draft law and of the amendments tabled by both you, Minister, and Mrs Connordos, concerning GDP and ELTA. We think they have a positive sign and it is the beginning, as you have said. Our only exception is Article 13, which we are voting against, because we consider that there are ambiguities in how to calculate costs and whether we are burdening the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, too. Mrs Theodora Jackri has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u216	Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law incorporates into national law, in the law of a 'corrupt' South country, always according to what Mr Diaselblum said, the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on measures to reduce the cost of installing high-speed electronic communications networks. Let me stress, of course, on this occasion that corruption and the smuggling of public money is not a matter of the North and South, that is to say, a matter of geographical determination. And I would remind Mr Diaselblum that a company of the 'broken' North, the German 'Siemens', which sells telecommunications material around the world, used unfair means to draw state money, not only in our country that is an area of the South, but also in other countries of Europe and in America and throughout the world. And that is why we have condemned it. And I would also remind you that our country, our government, has asked the German Government to issue Mr Christoforkos to apologise and answer before the Greek justice for his works and actions. However, the 'corruption' of German justice has so far been unequivocally refused to do so. This, so we don't forget. Ladies and gentlemen, today it is a directive that has technical content. I should like to say to Mr Georgiadi that during the consultation, Mr Georgiadis, there were not six, but sixty-six comments from various bodies and citizens - I am presenting in the Minutes the OpenGov Consultation Report - which have all been taken into account for the drafting of this bill. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Theodora Jackis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This bill, despite its technical content, has a huge impact on the development of broadband in our country and of course on the development of our economy. It is well known that our country - and it has, of course, been said on all sides - is Europe's forum on the development of broadband networks. The most important reasons for this are the high cost, but also the non-functional framework for licensing, which has so far created great delays and high administrative burdens for the public. This bill aims precisely at reducing the financial costs, facilitating cross-sectoral cooperation that is a key factor in achieving an economy of scale and reducing both the time and the costs of developing these infrastructures. Furthermore, it aims to further simplify the licensing framework, so as to speed up the development of the new generation networks. It should also be noted that this draft law does not only incorporate - and indeed in a thorough manner - the Community directive, but also incorporate some further optional provisions for the development of broadband. It is vitally important that a stop should be taken to grant transit rights. This is a very important intervention that is a consistent demand from both market operators and public services, as it simplifys procedures and reduces administrative costs thereby ensuring transparency. More specifically, this draft law seeks, as I have already said, to reduce all costs for the development of broadband infrastructures. It is commonly accepted that the greatest cost, at 75%, is for civil engineering work. This Directive lays down certain minimum rights and obligations with a view to simplifying and facilitating those projects. The Directive aims at four categories of action, which are incorporated into this draft law. The first category of actions concerns transparency and access to existing online infrastructures. It is foreseen that each network operator is required, under certain conditions, to fulfil any request for access to its physical infrastructure, i.e. the development of new broadband networks and infrastructures, as existing excavations can be used for this purpose. It is planned to operate the single information point, through which it will be possible for every company interested in developing new, modern telecommunications infrastructure to have a full picture of the existing infrastructures that it can make use of and do so. And so, as we all understand, environmental damage is being reduced by the development of new networks. The second category of actions relates to the co-ordination of the performance of technical work and a clear framework is laid down so that in a particular region the cost of implementation is shared between several stakeholders. Today we see the regrettable phenomenon of successive projects carried out by different actors in the same area, so that many roads within the municipalities are turned into endless construction sites. With the new framework, each body should inform all potential stakeholders of the planning of the implementation of its work in order to achieve better coordination. With regard to the licensing process, this draft law overall amends the relevant existing framework, in which weaknesses have been identified and was a consistent request both market operators and the other operators, the parties involved here, to simplify and modernise the entire process. The use of the electronic licensing system is therefore introduced and the person concerned can, in fact, monitor his application electronically throughout the entire procedure. Time-limits are also laid down, with the expiry of which the request will be deemed to have been approved on a case-by-case basis. As we understand, there is also a consistent demand for the LAGs to ensure restoration in the case of projects, because in many cases the damage created in the network is not guaranteed when technical projects are carried out. Finally, on infrastructure facilities in existing buildings, the existing framework is also amended here and it is facilitated by the establishment of modern telecommunications infrastructure in private buildings, but there is also a provision for the development of co-installation in public and public areas. It is also important that in order to resolve the disputes that arise in the application of these provisions, the EBRD should be able to bring the parties concerned before the EBRD, with what this means, i.e. avoiding the judicial proceedings and the involvement of the courts. Let me say that there will be progressive procedures here for judicial mediation in this category of disputes, so that this modern tool for out-of-court resolution of disputes can also be adopted in this context of public relations with private individuals. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is important, because it also benefits citizens and businesses, reduces bureaucracy, reduces the environmental impact and cures weaknesses identified in existing legislation. Modern telecommunications infrastructure is one of the critical infrastructures for the country itself, and indeed the economic development of our country in the near future will depend very much on whether or not these infrastructures exist. For Greece, in fact, these infrastructures are becoming even more critical, as they are seeking to play the important role of the node in the south-eastern Mediterranean, both the movement of critical information and the movement of goods. I therefore consider it imperative that modern telecommunications infrastructure should be developed in our country so that it can finally be dismantled from the last countries between the countries of the European Union, where it has been established for many years. I am sure that, with the necessary moves, Minister, which will take place after this bill has been passed, this objective will rather or less be achieved. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, too. Mrs Olga Kefaloyannis from New Democracy has the floor, last but not last speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall be speaking on the parliamentary amendment tabled this morning, which has just been amended. You have the ability and ability to make it easy. You have the ability to blow things up. And I'm explaining. We had backed Mr Xydakis' initiative from the outset at the time that he was Minister for the control and resolution of GDPI. Mr. Xydakis had caused management control over GDPI following official and branded complaints by authors. We were also pushing all our forces in this direction, namely the resolution of GDP. After Friday and after the debate on the timely question I tabled to the Minister of Culture and Sport, there was a climate of consensus - you saw it in our statements - on the Prime Minister's initiative. I mention what the Prime Minister said, that the Ministry of Culture is setting a direct temporary representative to exercise proper control over GDPI. It also directly submits to Parliament the Copyright Act, where all relevant issues will be dealt with in such a way that it leaves no room for new arbitrariness and unfair choices. That's what the Prime Minister said. We responded, after the delays, after the Prime Minister announced that a temporary commissioner for the control of GNI is appointed and that the copyright law is to be deposited in Parliament, 'good late rather than never'. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, you have chosen 'never'. You have brought an amendment which has been badly written, rough and fragmented. Why? What's the reason for this rush? What are you serving with this move? Why did you put the Minister first and not the GNI? Why is the Minister hiding behind a parliamentary amendment, when last week in Parliament he said that the amendment itself would bring it as Minister, taking responsibility for it too? In particular, we cannot vote for an amendment tabled in this way, ignoring the Minister and putting it effectively under party comitology. We cannot vote for an amendment which has nothing to do with what we have been discussing the previous period. We cannot vote for an amendment which is decoupled by the major one which is the famous copyright bill. Really, Minister, where's the bill? Of course, how can I ask the Minister who entered the Chamber just to say a word, did she consider her role to be intact and stood up and left the Chamber? He's not here to answer us, so why is the copyright bill being delayed? I would remind you that in July 2016 he was tabled to the House by the previous Minister, Mr Balta. This bill had incorporated the observations made in the public consultation. He had incorporated CEN's observations. This bill itself was withdrawn by Minister Balta overnight. It was replaced by another, presented by Mr Baltas at a press conference and changes were made on this draft law as well. Then there was a change in political leadership and for the last five months that Mrs Konordos has been in this position, we have been in a situation of unequivocal delay and inertia on the part of the government. Mrs. Connordou said she was coming to the House immediately. What is the “direct” for you? Make a commitment now! I would like to say that some of the last changes Mr Xydakis has asked for are in the right direction. They improve the clipboard, guilty and wicked character of the original amendment. However, we cannot consent to this method, because the way you have chosen to bring the amendment, its content and your slut hide and your purposes. I would explain: there are many issues that still remain open even with this amendment and amending the amendment, because you say that the Commissioner is appointed without the Board being removed from collection and distribution, while all the other responsibilities remain in the existing administration. So, in fact, we are talking about a liaison commission, and it should be about administration. There is no clear-cut issue, such as who will make decisions and what issues. Who will take decisions on economic issues? Who determines the costs? What's the matter with the staff? It is a very short duration. While it would take at least twelve months, you predict six plus three months. The provision whereby the Commissioner may intervene and annul acts of the administration shall be waste. What exactly do you mean by 'didn't act'? Also, at the point where you are talking about recruiting partners, you say 'and a temporary commissioner', without clearing and who will determine the remuneration. Without the economic impact report from the General Accounting Office of the State, does the Minister hide behind a parliamentary amendment? Finally, when does the Commissioner take over? That's not even what you've predicted inside. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] What we are asking for and suggesting is for you to withdraw the amendment. Incorporate the changes, which have been heard from the side of the Coupling, but mainly from the side of the Opposition. So listen to the logical remarks that have been tabled here. Listen to the creators. Give the Minister, Mrs Connordou, the role she is responsible for and free her from the commission. Mostly, bring the copyright bill immediately. Even now, show serious institutional and direct treatment. Justice, transparency and accountability are needed in order to streamline the management of copyright and related rights. If you follow this path of logic, we will support you and, of course, with us the whole world of creators who have been indifferent to your methods. Ladies and gentlemen, dare to overcome yourself. The question is the immediate deposit of the bill, in order to tackle all the problems in the area of collective management, because in the end it is not simply solved, but new problems are added. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mrs. Kefaliannis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, five students and a meeting of the IEK Sivitanidium, Department of Sports Journalism. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] With Mrs Kefaliannis, the list of speakers has been completed. So now we can, if necessary, get through to the seconds. So far, he has stated that he wants to use his dentistry as Mr. Delis and Mr. Katsis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u220	I would also like to take a second step, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u221	I too, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u222	Do you want to follow the parliamentary order? May I give Mr. Javarra the floor so that you can think about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u223	I've been talking to the services too. I'll take the floor. However, perhaps, if I don't have time to talk, because I have a flight, I'll be replaced.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u224	Good. Mr. Javarras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, would like to point out at this very moment that we are all in favour of ensuring the interests of musicians and creators. We also all want to provide a way out of this very serious problem with GDP. However, I am afraid - and I say this and I stress this - that this particular arrangement leads to such a development that the authors become hostages of this government which exists in the areas of GDP management. I say this because - I say this and I insist - we are using a methodology that no longer applies to legislation. This is the state interference in the functioning of legal persons. GNI is a limited company. There can be no state power, nor the legislative power, on the basis of the Constitution and the laws, put a commissioner. Commissioners used to be extraordinary and well-documented in times of time. We are talking about a democracy regime. The Act which provided for in Law 2190 these changes in the event of a reduction in the share capital has changed. Articles 48 and 48A of Law 2190 have been amended since 2007 with Law 1604 if I am not wrong. I think we need to find another arrangement. The contents of this arrangement will lead to the hostage of everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr. Javarra. Shall we give Mr. Delis the floor? From the Democratic Assent, Mr. Maniotis, would you like the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u227	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u228	The special speaker from the Communist Party, Mr. Delis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. In relation to the notorious amendment, which concerns GDP - of course, the wording of the amendment is not about GDP - it does not even refer to public limited companies - we asked the Minister, Mrs Connordos, but the answer, not only did it not convince us, but it has also given us a greater question. Look, I said at the outset in relation to GDPI, which is an anonymous company with the well-known issues, particularly the well-known issues and what the creators are doing. Only that GDP is a limited company, as I said. The amendment, formulated by the Minister, concerns not only public limited companies such as GNI, but also all collective management organisations. Several of them are cooperative, non-profit-making, members of them and are controlled by their members through their general assemblies. And, of course, through their general assemblies, they also exercise control over all the administrative bodies. With this amendment and in the wording, which seems to be the case, the right not only to intervene in public limited companies, but also in these cooperatives, collective management, and in these cooperative procedures to define a commissioner who will effectively abolish the general assembly of members of this cooperative. This Commissioner will certainly be rewarded by this agency, which will otherwise be indebted and unable to fulfil its financial obligations. And not only he, but also the other counsellors he will have the right to hire. We do not think that this amendment is so innocent, as it is formulated. That is why we have called on the Minister to change the wording. But she insisted and talked about the temporaryity of the amendment. Look, no more permanent. Once it is passed and made law, no one can say that this will be temporary until when. In any case, we do not disagree with thorough monitoring, even with the definition of a commissioner for public limited companies with such issues as GDPI. But here, we have to say in this Chamber that on the streets in general, to those present in Jerusalem, we know that large business groups, several of them or some of them, like to take this pie of copyright from collective management organisations, not only from GNI, but also from others. I repeat that we are not opposed to control. We are not even opposed to the definition of a Commissioner for GNI. However, since GDPI is not separated, or even anonymous companies from the rest of the collective management bodies, we cannot vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr. Delis. So it seems from SYRIZA that only Mr. Xydakis has left to answer for a second. Then we will give the floor to the Minister to close. Here, Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Kefalayannis - who unfortunately has been abducted - has made a number of objections to us. In my opinion, there is no contradiction between what the Minister supported last Friday and between what we are doing today, the amendment we are introducing. It is precisely in the direction discussed and agreed by Mrs Kefaloniann. It is also in the direction in which all creators have asked for letters from both the Minister of Culture and the Prime Minister. It is also in the direction requested by the European Union of Creators by letter to the Prime Minister and the European Union of Collective Administration Bodies by letter to the Prime Minister and the World Association of Collective Management Bodies. And it is in a direction that suits one of the best practices within Europe. Twice he has entered collective management organisations in Belgium to rescue and exalt. Finally, it is a practice that we reasonably expect there to be, when an organisation, even if it is an anonymous company with private capital, has a dominant position and a monopoly on a market between the user and the creator and collecting a fee, a kind of social resource, for the legal retransmission of music, for example, and gives it to the beneficiary. When, in the mid-term, a break, an ataxia, an arrhythmia, a mismanagement that threatens the interests of the beneficiaries, as well as of users, then the state should be regulating and restoring a proper functioning. The Temporary Commissioner's institution is precisely the rescue of a relationship of confidence within the market, a relationship of trust between users and beneficiaries, the creators. Things are so simple and we are going in this direction with great transparency and with the provision of dialogue and co-formulation of a framework that will be the best possible for the entire Greek society. Now, if there are any minor objections to things, which are regulatory, or to the approach or one word is different, I have one point to say that GDPI has been operating at least on such terms since 1993, which is governed by No 2121. Law 2121 has always given the Minister of Culture the right, who is the supervisor through the Intellectual Property Organisation, to order management. What happened for twenty-two years? This thoughtful interest in how it was expressed at the time, why was it not once ordered management control? It is not a penalty, it is not a punishment, it is not a threat, it is a management check that the state is obliged to carry out on the basis of the laws it has passed. That's never happened. I would expect greater sensitivity to the public, to the artists and to the artists and to the beneficiaries, more sensitivity to Stavros Xararchakou's call, more sensitivity to the appeal of the creators who are addressing all political forces and to the Prime Minister himself, greater sensitivity to what is happening in Greek society, who threatens the bread of the authors and who threatens to break down the relationship between users and creators. That's it. All the rest is acceptable to hear them, but they are procedural. So to speak about the political substance. And the political substance is only that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr. Xydakis. I am sorry, Minister, the floor has been requested by Mrs Asmakopoulou, a special rapporteur from the New Democracy. Here, Mrs Asmakopoulou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u233	I will be very brief, Mr President. Thank you. All right, we are not surprised that we did not receive very specific answers from the Minister today or, like the committee, anything that actually justifies this great delay in the transposition of the directive, nothing about the photographic provisions relating to the staff of the Secretariat-General. We obviously did not say that you should not negotiate 'HELLAS SAT', Minister. You did not tell us about the substance of the matter because it is necessary to divert from the institutional framework with direct awards, nothing in particular about projects. We're waiting for your answers. There have been general and unfinished locations for the benefits of computer technologies which are now outdated. In any case, you said nothing about the negotiation. Looks like this is the line or don't you know or don't want to tell us? However, this account, that it is not your fault for anything, it is your fault that the lenders, it is our fault that we support them, this account is tired. That's what I have to tell you. It's all your fault. But the reality is that you will be left alone when the time comes to vote, what you will bring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Mrs Asmakopoulou. Give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u235	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think we have completed a cycle of creative dialogue, with legitimate controversy and a cross-examination, but for reasons of self-evidentness I would like to reiterate what the bill is doing. It is a draft law, which restores the legal vacuum created by the exception to the scope of the provisions on the granting of rights to public networks and restores the legal vacuum in respect of the granting of transit rights to concessions, simplifies the framework for carrying out damage maintenance and restoration work and, of course, sets clear deadlines for the authorisation, as it provides for the granting of a standard licence in the event of obstruction and the expiry of the deadlines. And, of course, it necessarily coordinates the projects so that we do not have the unfavourable phenomenon of digging and restoring a path within a very short period of time by different actors and thus multiplying the nuisance. I think it is a very strong signal to the international investment community for investment in the country, for the development of the new generation networks. It is a first step towards optimising the use of Community funds, because we recall that the title relates to the reduction of costs for the development of these networks, that is to say, we ensure that the funds are not channelled into other work, that is, they will not be spent on work, which is not in themselves the development of the networks, but are work which is very costly and could actually be a black well, which would eat all the money, which we could invest there. Finally, in my opinion, this strategy is the way out of this crisis, because we are talking again and again about all the political forces for development, but the time has come now, Mr Asmakopoulou, and I urge you not to worry too much, to think about what the role of the country will be for the years to come, what we want to do. And because the country is at a very critical point on the map, there can be a hub of transport, communications, a trade hub. But in order to do so, it needs developed, modern, fast and reliable networks, and this way we are opening. It is a road that if political intervention is timely and crucial in design, it can also ensure that the Greek citizen access to the possibilities of new technologies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information is adjourned: "Measures to reduce the cost of installing high-speed electronic communications networks - Harmonization of legislation in Directive 2014/61/EU and other provisions". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u237	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u238	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u240	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u241	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u242	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u243	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u245	Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: "Measures to reduce the cost of installation of high-speed electronic communications networks - Harmonisation of legislation in Directive 2014/61/EU and other provisions", was accepted in principle by a majority. We are going to vote on the articles and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u246	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u247	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u248	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u249	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u250	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u251	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u252	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u253	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u254	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u255	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u256	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u258	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u259	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u260	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u261	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u262	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u263	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u264	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u265	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u266	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u267	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u268	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u269	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u270	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u271	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u272	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 4 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u273	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u274	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u275	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u276	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u277	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u278	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u279	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u280	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u281	Article 4 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 5 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u282	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u283	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u284	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u285	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u286	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u288	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u289	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u290	Article 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u291	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u292	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u293	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u294	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u295	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u297	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u299	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u300	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u301	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u302	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u303	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u304	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u305	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u308	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 8 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u309	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u312	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u313	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u317	Article 8 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u318	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u319	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u321	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u322	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u324	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u326	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 10 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u327	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u328	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u329	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u330	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u331	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u333	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u335	Article 10 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 11 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u336	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u337	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u339	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u340	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u342	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u344	Article 11 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u345	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u346	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u347	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u348	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u349	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u350	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u351	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u352	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u353	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to Rule 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u354	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u355	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u356	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u357	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u358	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u359	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u360	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u361	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u362	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 985 and a special number 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u363	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u364	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u365	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u366	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u368	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u369	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u370	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u371	The amendment, by a general number 985 and a special 1, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the vote on the next amendment, let me take a brief break because Mr Karathanasopoulos has asked for the floor for a few seconds, which is the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party, to make a statement. Please, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u372	We have stated to all the tons and have also called on the government to take account of the concerns we have. This is an amendment, which is not just about the appointment of a Commissioner to GNI, but is general to all collective rights management bodies. From this point of view, the position of the Minister has not only calmed down these objections and the concerns we have had, but has created even greater questions for the purpose of the government, and much more that is not a question of temporaryity, because it may then argue that this provision has been voted on by a large majority, so it also applies in general. We say this because it opens the door to other collective management bodies that have a cooperative or collective basis. That is why we, as a JRC, will vote against this amendment, again stressing that we are saying yes to control and to the GSP.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u373	Good, Mr. Karathanasopus. The position of the Communist Party has been recorded as regards the amendment, which we shall vote on now. So we shall continue the vote. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 987 and a special number 3 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u374	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u375	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u376	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u377	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u378	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u379	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u381	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u382	The amendment, by a general number 987 and a special 3, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u383	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u384	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u386	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u387	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u388	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u389	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u391	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: “Measures to reduce the cost of installation of high-speed electronic communications networks – Harmonisation of legislation in Directive 2014/61/EU and other provisions” was accepted in principle and on articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u393	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u395	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u396	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u397	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u398	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u399	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u400	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information: ‘Measures to reduce the cost of installation of high-speed electronic communications networks - Harmonisation of legislation in Directive 2014/61/EU and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all of them and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u401	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u402	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. The Minutes of Monday, 6 February 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether it will ratify them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u403	The minutes of Monday 6 February 2017 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-23-S1-commons.u404	With the consent of the House at 17.32 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 24 March 2017, at 10.00 hours, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
