ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 25-5-2017, the PLAC's minutes of Thursday 25 May 2017 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau in its deliberations on the resolution in the whole draft law: "Measures to accelerate the government's work on education"]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent question report on Monday 29 May 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 871/23-5-2017 of the Thessaloniki Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "First Camp Kodra Kalamaria - East Thessaloniki: The region's promotion in a super-local park". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 866/22-5-2017, a topical question by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Catherine Papakostas - Ironropoulou, Minister for Health, concerning the inclusion of innovative and orphan medicinal products in the Greek System of Compensation. 3. The question asked by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy about the activation of the decision on pilot study of the Association for Economic Control (ZOE) Argos. 4. Under number 872/23-5-2017, a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To reopen the Integrated Personal Management System for Personnel A/thymia and B/thymias (OPSYD) for those who did not have the time to do so". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 867/22-5-2017 by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Total and not partial relocation of the Achlada community of Florina". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 873/23-5-2017 by MP Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Migration Policy on the operation of the Host of Refugees in Lavrio. 3. The question by No. 701/6-4-2017 was raised by Piraeus II of the Central Association of Theodoras Megalo-Economists to the Minister of Health on the closure of local hospitals of kindness - Charagris Keratsiniou from the Second Health Region of Attica. 4. The Question by Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, Member of the Independent MEP, to the Minister for Health, dated 761/25-2017, on the subject: "Will a formal application be submitted to Patras for the relocation of the European Medicines Agency?". Also, MP Stavros Kalafatis seeks permission from Parliament's work due to absence in London for personal reasons from 29-5-2017 to 2-6-2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u3	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with our second question under No 865/22-5-2017 in the second cycle (B) of the Athens Parliamentary II of the New Democracy, Anna - Michelle Asmakopoulou to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the television signal in remote areas. The timely question by my colleague will be answered by the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr Nikolaos Pappas. Mrs. Asimakopoulou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you are roaming across Greece, criticising the Chief of Staff Response which, in my view, is more than personal. As Prime Minister Tsipras'alter ego, you are not only criticising the Chief of Officer Anti-Population, but defending my class as a heroic but failed negotiation that has led him to such a demographic collapse, which, according to the magazine "TIMES" I read is located in the five less popular leaders of the world, under Mr Trump, with good company. He has for company the Presidents of Venezuela, Brazil, Malaysia and South Africa. Once and for all, however, on your tours, as recently in Thrace, you also deal with the object of your ministry, but rarely. So we are here to discuss your bilateral announcements that you have resolved the subject of the television coverage of these remote areas. I hope we won't be spent on details that are documented here with papers I have with me. In particular, you know that we have achieved a percentage of television coverage, population coverage from transition to the 96.2% digital era, from the highest in Europe. However, the New Democracy had also provided for this issue in the remote regions - I am referring to eastern Macedonia, Thrace and the northern Aegean - where a project with resources from the Digital Convergence Programme of EUR 1,2 million in six months in 2015 would solve the problem for two hundred thousand permanent residents. So you come, and in particular your predecessor, Mr. Spirtzis, and when the Ministry takes over, he sets it up by the Digital Convergence Programme and you incorporate it now, with a budget of 60% above, EUR 1.9 million, the population coverage of 75% below, from two hundred thousand permanent residents to forty-two permanent residents. You leave out - the point raised by our MPs, Mr Kyriazidis and Mr. Pschakis - Kavala and Drama. You leave Lesvos and Mytilini outside, and the budget is from the EBRD, i.e. from state resources. So my question is simple: why from the EMCDDA reserve? Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u6	The Minister has the floor for three minutes. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u7	It gives me real impression that even today you are coming to the House to defend this scandalous contract with 'DIGEA'. It is a contract resulting from a competition - parody, a competition with a participant, a price degrading for the country's "air", which was awarded with 18 million was awarded to the winner of the competition, who was running alone - as a miracle! - in this competition for the degrading sum of 18 million of whom, of course, we must make it easier when they are the owners of television stations, the price is paid partially and so far we have paid, if I am not mistaken, 7 million. Besides, you are now coming with your question to defend what exactly? Would you write to the question that you joined the 23-1-2015 plays on Friday before the elections? Congratulations! You had a pre-election gathering, that is, Mr Samaras spoke to the Constitution, and you joined projects, if you could cover your guilt from the huge scandal of transition to the digital era, which I would like to remind the Greek people that he had two "blacks". He had the 'black' of the ERT before and the 'black' for the citizens after, the citizens of those regions where you refer to your question, the citizens of the regions we now cover. It is ironic - let me not use some heavy expression - to come right now and say, because you tried to cover some guilt, that you had solved this problem. What kind of problem did you solve? Would they have been covered in six months? On average fourteen months of implementation and competition have the projects of similar content and after the natural object of six and seven months. We would reach the end of 2015 and of course these projects would have to be made from public resources. You tell me about the EMCDDA resources. The EBRD resources are resources coming from the telecommunications providers. It is not the Greek taxpayer's resources, which you would charge and without, of course, the problem being solved. At least three years would also take with doubtful effectiveness. I'm coming to what we're doing now. Our action includes: First, free delivery of equipment - and decoder and antenna - with a two-year guarantee, free installation of equipment, free access to Greek free-range television stations, regional stations transmitted by the providers' satellite platform and at least fifty free access to satellite television and thirty free radio stations. The services provided are absolutely and clearly more and qualitative and are provided without any time limit. Satellite technology covers even the most geographically specific areas. Net cost is not 1.9 million. It is 1.5 million and a one-off payment is made and no commitment is required. The bureaucracy is being circumvented and, at the moment, hundreds of citizens have already installed their satellite dishes and by October of this year, sixteen thousand households or eighty thousand citizens will have such a right of access. Since you have also referred to the question of the New Democracy colleague, we welcome this sincere anxiety and I tell you here, before and before the National Representation, that we are looking for resources so that this effective programme can be generalised, because the right to access...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u8	Why this distinction?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u9	What distinction?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u10	Drama and Kavala.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u11	So we started at the border.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u12	Borders? The border from Drama doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u13	So we started from the nationally sensitive areas and of course we are looking for ways to generalize it. If we tend to continue and generalize the work here, I welcome it. If you're criticising us because we started it, I'm sorry, but I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u14	Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u15	Thank you again, Madam President. First, for DIGEA if you want to question it, the prosecutor has put it in the drawer. I've filed this in the Minutes. You know that, Minister. We've had this conversation. If we have to, we'll do it again. Secondly, there was no pre-election proclamation of the New Democracy. Here we are, an accession decision exists. You know her. You know her. He's at the "DENMARK". I'm also going to testify on the occasion. Thirdly, I am committed to the conditions you have mentioned about what you are giving the citizens, to drawing up a table, to give him publicity, to compare what you and those that were part of the previous project, so that there would be a talk between us on the subject. However, I have to say to you in the time left for me that your answer does not make me any impression, that is, I have been waiting for it in full. Why? Because, as I said, you are Mr Tsipras' alter ego and the communiqué, which he expressed in the Greek Parliament recently, referring to expectations from the recent Eurogroup, chose to express with a phrase in English, which, if I may say so, I shall use. He said it's too good to be true. So you too, to go to be true what you will give the inhabitants in Thrace and eastern Macedonia. And, of course, we said you were leaving Drama, Kavala and Lesvos outside. Too good to be a crue, then. This is your new account. Blindly to have, Minister, the success story. Because the too good to be true, that's too good to be true, it's even better than that. Of course, you'd tear the memorial to be true now. Oops, the good to be true was that you would edit the memorandum, because you brought the third memorandum, you charged the country 100 billion euros and now fourth memorandum, in which you are reducing the tax-free and cutting pensions. I'm going to talk to you, Mrs. Fotio, because you're in the Chamber. Don't worry. That was the good to be true in relation to the memorandum. Too good to be true, you wouldn't bring a new euro. You brought $4.9 billion. Too good to be trae, 12 billion benefits in the programme of Thessaloniki. Total account 14.2 billion euros. Too good to be twine, parallel programme with social benefits. There's Mrs. Fotio. What are you doing now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u16	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u17	Financial assistance allowance up to the end of compulsory education, financial assistance allowance for unprotected children, social protection in poverty, the grant of new entrants to the labour market.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u18	How many times are you going to say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u19	Too good to be true that people will eat stuffed as a result of your social policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u20	There's no timeliness anymore. He's not talking about the timeline. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u21	Too good to be true, the country is taking off to growth and we are in recession and it has cost this EUR 29 billion GDP story.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u22	There's only propaganda, nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u23	Well, Mr. Poppa, the good to be True, ended up after the Eurogroup in telling Mr. Tsakalotos, we learn from the Minutes, that ultimately the proposal on the table is the IMF, but not to put money up until the German elections, which you would probably accept on 15 June, so the one from the too good to be True, too good to be true, called it the world's world's best, that is, the worst thing in the world you could achieve at Eurogroup. I close, Madam President - and thank you for your tolerance - and because you have chosen - Mr Tsipras - to use English phrases, I end with a song which is also a song, which I dedicate to you: 'Enough is enough', Minister! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u24	Mrs Fotou also asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u25	I'll speak after the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u26	However, if we are to respond to the issue that has been planned, Mrs Asmakopoulou, because we are now opening up other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u27	Mrs. Fotou happened to be in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u28	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u29	I think, first of all, that it is obvious that Mrs Asmakopoulou on her second position had absolutely nothing to say about the substance of the question and she told the New Democracy's well-known account of the collapse of our own negotiation and so on. Because you spoke about the 'DIGEA' contract and the archiving by the prosecutor, I would like to tell you that what is legal is not moral. This contract was completely immoral to the public, because in Greece a "aircraft" has been carried out for which your prolongation is completely accountable. Our program, Mrs Asimakopoulou, you said it was too good to be true, that is, too good to be true. It's both good and real. I welcome - and I repeat - the wording of the counter-population which is extinguished to us and push us to generalize it. I promise to say here, before you, that we will consider this. I will only say, because you took the opportunity and spoke of your own success story. In 2014 it closed with a recession of 1.2%, in 2014 Greece had a clear financial problem, which you have admitted to in this Chamber for March 2015, the country had committed itself to surpluses that, according to your Minister of Finance, Mr. Gika Hardouvelis, were not coming out. In our negotiation - and this is now historically registered - we have fought to bring out all the painful commitments from the backs of the Greek people. Result? Greece lost half a million jobs during the governance of Papandreou, two hundred and fifty thousand jobs during the governance of Samaras and has won two thousand jobs with our own governance. The figures for the Greek economy are encouraging. The world economic community sees them. Who doesn't see them? The circles of the German Ministry of Finance, which cannot be reconciled with the idea that a left-wing government is pulling the country out of the mud in which you plunged it and, of course, you, who are trapped in a narrative that lacks any "street" in relation to reality. Closing the evaluation, moving forward. To God, don't criticize us for debt issues. You were looking for certificates around - around. What do we say? That restructuring is needed, which will just pave the way to confirm and become even more stable the signs of recovery of the Greek economy. On benefits issues, Minister Theano Fotio I think it can enlighten you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u30	Minister, do you have any timetable to cover Dramas - Kavalas?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Cryazides, there's no dialogue here. Don't burden it, it doesn't make any sense. Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u32	Mrs. Fotio may speak, but can't my colleague ask Mr. Pappas? Why, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u33	How, Mrs. Asmakopoulou? Is there a dialogue? It can't be done. These are unprecedented for parliamentary control. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u34	The Minister wants to answer. Why don't you let him go?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u35	Mrs. Fotou, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u36	Because they saw me getting in the Chamber and then they took the "damage" and the welfare, I repeat, to listen to all the Greek people, that here the topical questions I thought were on a particular subject. That's the tradition of the House. Instead, there is a'scan' which is repeated for propaganda reasons. Among other things, propaganda scans the benefits. We received a grant state, which had a total budget of 780 million for 2015, voted by the Government of New Democracy and PASOK. We have taken it into conditions of extreme crisis and of great suffocation in the 1 billion to 500 million. We voted in 2016. In 2017 we will vote for a greater budget for welfare and in 2018 we will vote for 2 billion 700 million for welfare. That's all he's answering. But I have said the example of unprotected and I am done with it. It's a great shame what it's called. The unprotected child gave 44 euros and we give 100 euros to joining the CRL. He's a very big liar! The entire Greek people will experience their lies every day. We don't need the media to reproduce the lies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u37	Let's close the media then! That's what Mr. Pappas will do! Alas, are you cheating?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u38	Are you referring to me? In our government? Shame on you! The question was clear and, of course, implyed that we are not fraudulent. If you have a clue that we're cheating, bring it in!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u39	Mrs. Fotio and Mrs. Asmakopoulou, your question is closed. Please! We move to the seventh with number 660/28-3-2017 a timely second-cycle question (B) by the MP Samos of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Sevastakis to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the reopening of the "Samian Television" and the well-functioning framework of regional media. Please, Mr Sevastakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u40	When my colleagues stop and allow me to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u41	It seems forbidden today, we have tension. Please. Please. Calm down. Come on, Mr. Sevastaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u42	Apart from the political controversy in the stratosphere, there is a reality. The process of topical questions, especially when there is a great political burden, is very important, is about reality, and the process must have its silence and organisation. So I'm going to talk, trying to regain reality from the stratosphere of the previous period. I will talk about the reopening of the 'Symbol TV' and I thank the Minister for his reply. I would like to say that 'Samian Television' is the only television station in the prefecture, which has been running since the 1990s, experimentally at the beginning, was upgraded to different phases, acquired and established a validity and credibility. Unfortunately, the contract or surcharges or the burdens of using the DIGEA digital platform pushed him in, and due to the crisis, he ceased to broadcast. In the second part of the question I will also develop side-effects, results and explanations of this phenomenon. However, while I remain in the text of the question, I will say the following. Because it is necessary to thoroughly clarify the operating framework of the local media so that they operate in a transparent and high level of journalistic speech and professionalism, but also economic stability, because the media, particularly in border areas, is important to do their information work without dependency, because access to valid and democratic information is the right of all citizens, you ask: What action will the Ministry take to implement a modern framework for the operation and broadcasting of local and regional media, ensuring pluralism, their independent and transparent functioning, both in terms of corporate composition and ethics? Also, what financial and other operational assistance can the state activate to support these instruments? [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] In my dentistry, I will develop more the thinking and ideological features of my question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u43	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Sevastakis, thank you for your question. Your question, Mr Sevastakis, does not touch on an issue that only concerns Samos, but as we had the opportunity to say in the previous question, where unfortunately some have chosen to create impressions, which I do not think helps neither parliamentary control nor the way in which we have to act as representatives of the Greek people, gives us a great opportunity to discuss in these cases, during parliamentary control, on the substance of the matter. To highlight issues, to welcome criticisms, which, of course, are to exist and not simply to be plunged into characterisations and tensions, which I think are simply serving to create impressions. As I said in my first reply, Mr Sevastakis, we unfortunately received a contract, which was to the detriment of the interests of the public, namely the Convention on the provision of digital signals on the ground by a private company, a situation which condensed exactly what is defined as a conflict of interest. In other words, the network provider should also be a content provider. In my opinion, there is a very serious political, ideological, economic lesson from this story that, when we talk about large infrastructures, we cannot let them grow on the basis of private interests alone. Because the private interest, Mr Sevastakis, does not find sense in developing the network well in areas where there is no commercially critical mass of consumers. This is the great wound and the abrupts of these choices that we come here to discuss. So there are too many 'white' areas. On the basis of the contract, which we are discussing, on the basis of the contract signed by DIGEA with the Greek State, the applicable ceiling for regional programmes, such as the one you refer to in your question, which emit through the DIGEA platform, is calculated on the basis of the population factor. In regions with a small population, therefore, regional stations pay a lower price than broadcasters in larger towns in the region. If you ask me whether this agreement and its price is beneficial to regional stations, I submit a question mark before you. I'll tell you that any area I visit, I'm receiving complaints like that. Having said that, I would like to point out that we have a contract which, unfortunately, we have to reintroduce. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Allow me for thirty more seconds, Madam President. I would also like to inform you that on the initiative of our Ministry, two working parties have been set up to increase coverage in border areas. The first group shall consider technical issues by optimising frequency map parameters or by adding emission centres. The second is dealing with issues such as what you are talking about in your question, which are technically technical, including the effect of the maximum limit value. In my dentistry, I will also come back with other measures that we are taking to support regional stations, which I would like to call on this step to be vigilant, synergies and to keep up-to-date with our Ministry's initiatives.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, eighteen students and students and a trainer from the 3rd Elementary School of New Heraklion. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Sevastakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u46	Let me add that after the drop of the signal, after the black in the 'Samian TV', there has been a renegotiation and a small interim and mortal solution has been found, but it does not respond to the main problem that there is a small market, so there is little capacity to support local media. Minister, running the national road between the capital of Samos and the city of Karlovaios, a large part of the spectrum disappears and is not heard Greek. I have full knowledge of their musical taste...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u47	Neighbors.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u48	Yes, the DJs from Turkey. This is very important. Looks like an ethography, but it's very important. It is very important that local means, especially at the country's borders, have independence and have permanent function. So I would add the question: How can we explore opportunities through advertising revenues so that the state can strengthen these instruments? I would also suggest that a different level should be set on subscriptions. The population's ratio is not secure to the burden. Because we often have different economic sizes. In other words, there are regions economically weak and very fragile, regardless of their population density. Another protocol must therefore be found for local stations, especially in border regions. You have been placed earlier with emphasis on this, stressing that in the border regions it is very important that we have a Greek programme clearly and ethically. This, I believe, will be in the interests of democracy and multilateralism, cultural and linguistic policy - at the end - and national integrity. With these considerations, I would like you to put yourself on the issue of advertising aid and on the question of the level of surcharges on local instruments. I want to tell you there was a substitute. The ‘Samian Television’ was launched on the web. Unfortunately, because of the large number of older people, this excludes them. So I would like very sensitively, as I know you're working, to see this parameter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u49	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u50	Mr Sevastakis, I fully understand your anxiety and other Members of Parliament and the opposition party, who have tabled parliamentary questions concerning the same area. I therefore think that here we have an issue in which all the political forces should discuss with coolness and reach the best for society and the public solution. You mentioned another example, which I consider to be very interesting and crucial. In Samos one can easily listen to the choices of our neighbours' DJs and does not have the opportunity to listen to the Greek radio. There are corresponding problems in Evros. Two things need to be done here. We need the development of an antenna, again not on the basis of a business plan, a business plan which will judge whether or not the network is profitable, and, secondly, coordination with the neighbours - and not just with Turkey. This applies to the country as a whole. Greece is in ongoing SEDDIF negotiations precisely for the determination of frequency maps. Our priority, of course, - and here I would like to address all the regional stations - is their full support. I would also like to call on you and Members of the region's counter-population to contact the regional media and to be vigilant in order to keep what the Venizelos law provides, the 70% - 30% requirement, that is to say, any public body with an advertising budget of at least 30% of its expenditure in the region's media. That's very, very useful. I had travelled to Thrace a few days ago. There I had a meeting with two local TV stations. I have the same problems: the costs of DIGEA and the television advertising tax. "It takes two to tango"! Because we speak a lot of English, the tango needs two. So the state should support but also the province's media should understand what the new realities are. In other words, partnerships need to be co-operated to produce a worthwhile programme. In order to ensure their interests in relation to public advertising, I also invite them to coordinate and beat together the doors of state bodies, which have been spending. I also call on them to invest in the development and dissemination of their content through new technologies. I think there's no longer any prospect of staying in the quadrants. But the state doesn't sit either to tell the province's media: Do you know what? You're out of your mind. Customise or take the horse to close.’ We also support the 70% - 30% regulation, for which - I am passing away - the multi-brand plan, which we will bring in the next few days, we will also provide for sanctions for public bodies which do not comply with this obligation. I appeal once again to the province's MPs and the province's media to be vigilant so that they can ensure this right. We have, of course, also introduced and is in operation the Register of Electronic Media Enterprises. The Electronic Media Business Register for the first time in Greece regulates the internet sector. Already four hundred websites have been certified in relation to and where they are, what their ownership is, what their VDUs are, how many are their employees and how they form an area of transparency. I must tell you, Mr Sevastakis, half of the registered and certified websites are in the province. So it opens up a huge potential here, which requires vigilance and new thought and new mobilisation from the province's stations too. For the maximum limit values, I think that they should also be reviewed in the direction of prioritising the viability of the province's television stations. Because the province's television stations and media must also claim for themselves a crucial role, not only in integrating a remote area into the national trunk but also a special role in detecting the potential for development of the regions. They must play a crucial role in enriching dialogue on the potential of each region. We are here to do our utmost to make the resources available, but on the other hand we also need ideas, mobilisation, incorporation of new technologies and, of course, cross-border consultation, to come to an agreement at some point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u51	Thank you. Now we're going through the reporting and questions circle. The third question by No 2795/23-1-2017 of the Deputy Drama of New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will be discussed on the subject: "An exception to the financial management of Drama's Chronic Sports Therapy Centre". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Theanos Fotio. Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u52	Good morning, Madam President. First, Madam President, allow me to express my disgrace at yesterday's terrorist activity. I would like to believe that it will not be a principle of such action, which I would like to see condemned by all of us, and so it is. Secondly, I come to this point, Minister. I must acknowledge the conscientiousness and the delicateness with which you have dealt with this question, because it is the second time it has come to debate. However, you have had the minute to come back again and say something urgent and that this should be repeated. I mean the conversation. That's what honors you. I have to recognize it. On the other hand, however, I must point out that there is a third topical question today, on behalf of me, concerning the Minister for Infrastructure, Mr Spirtzi, who, for the third time, does not come to answer an important issue concerning my country, my prefecture. It's about connecting Drama to the Egnatia Street. It is the only county in northern Greece, which remains isolated under the responsibility of the current government, because, while it had guaranteed the amount for the studies, it is unfortunately postponed from time to year, six months in six months. Madam Minister, I must stress this because it is indeed a huge issue concerning my country. I'm telling you, and that's because it's been repeating two years now. The lack of a government official in Drama will now be responded accordingly. This depreciation cannot be continued. I now come to the issue, which we are here today, and it is about the misappropriation of the chronic disease healing centre of EUR 180,000. Three years have passed. The procedure is still one way out and, indeed, it is two cases. And I come to the third question I ask you with my question, because I have received from Mr. Kontonis for a third time the postponement of the case at the Triumphant Court of Appeal in Thrace for 2018. You realise that there is no justice so, there is no justice and it is a huge problem. In conclusion, the disciplinary procedures have just begun, a quarter of a month ago, because about four months ago I submitted my question, and today it was an opportunity to discuss it. As far as the second case is concerned - if possible! - the staff member in question has not only returned to active action, and at the same time the management - if you like - of the whole body, I mean the Centre for the Social Welfare of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. I have recently been informed that he has at least withdrawn from management. He, that is, who misappropriated, found himself running the entire centre. These are paradoxical and strange. We do not know luck, that is, what has then been done both from a criminal point of view and from a disciplinary point of view. We're waiting for an answer from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u53	Madam Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u54	Mr Kyriazidis, indeed, I have come to answer despite the fact that, as you well know, the Disciplinary Board of the Ministry of Labour is an independent authority. What do I mean by that? As you know well, it is elected every two years. Its president is always a year and his deputy is a year. It is determined by another principle. Second member shall be a judicial officer. The third member is head of the Health Department, not the Welfare and the Ministry of Labour. The fourth member shall be an official, an official, a Head of Division, etc. Inspectors of the Labour Inspectorate with his deputy and fourth member is an official of the Centre for Social Welfare of Central Macedonia, again elected. Therefore, any intervention by the political leadership in these processes is superficial. However, I came to answer why the House and the Greek people should also know exactly what is going on. I must list here the dates for the Caesars to be assigned to Caesarea and of course you should know that, both the old Board of Directors of the Centre for Social Protection of East Macedonia in 2014 and the new one, as soon as something happens, they refer to disciplinary cases which, in fact, both for the decision of the disciplinary board and for the decision of the respective case or for the courts, take too long. And I can only appeal from this position - which is why I am here today - because the Greek citizens can actually wait two and three years from the disciplinary board to decide on the same basis two and three years from the courts to decide. As I told you, I came to give the analytical organ data that does not concern the Ministry's political leadership. First, as you well know, the Board of Directors of the Centre for Social Protection of East Macedonia Thrace in September 2014 decided to disciplinary action against an official. One case concerns a woman, the other concerns a man, and there is also a third case, where the board of directors has referred a year to the disciplinary board and still has not been dealt with, i.e. there is no decision. The clerk is placed on a fair holiday within a month. A year later, that is, on 15 October 2015, the Disciplinary Board decides to apologise to the staff member under review and after six months call her back to an apology and decides, in March 2016, to permanently pause. I describe in detail what happened with the clerk. The staff member in question has confessed to the act, before all that I describe to you, which is held within two years. In relation to the suspensive reference to the Prosecutor's Office of Prosecutors Dramas, you are again aware that a lawsuit is being filed from 10-2-2015 to the Monomele Courier of Drama, followed by a conservative confiscation request in the same month, a decision by the Monomele Court of First Instance of Drama on the conservative confiscation of movable and immovable property up to 300,000 euros in 2015, an appeal by the Board of Appeals of Thrace to refer the staff member to the Trimelis. I'm talking about the second employee. His case has been pending, he is appointed judge in March 2016, rescinded for April 2017 and again for 11-1-2018. That is the procedure, Madam President. You're legal and you know her. On 5-2-2015, the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay was asked to mediate it to speed up the trial of the cases we are talking about. From there on, three cases of child abuse have been discussed on the disciplinary board. Furthermore, no case has yet been discussed by the Centre for Social Protection in Eastern Macedonia - Thrace, which has already, for eight months, been referred by the board of directors now present on the disciplinary board. I don't mention names. It's coming out. That's the situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u55	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr Kyriazidis, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLERIOS VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the House, thirty-eight students and students and four teachers from the 5th Municipal School of Ilio and from the Elementary School of Kyramia Lesvos. We welcome you to the House, boys. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Today we have parliamentary control. Members ask the ministers on a number of outstanding issues and ask for their opinion through their scrutiny. Mr Kyriazidis, I think Mrs Fotioux's answer, which lasted for a long time, was complete. Here you have the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, I did not ask for any intervention, in fact, in administrative bodies, to which their independence would probably be sought. I wish this had happened. It is not, however, the case in practice, unfortunately. In any case, I accept what you have said. However, we should note here that the reintroduction of the second was then made - if you like - by the law that you brought and voted in 2015. Yes, Minister, and while referred to as a felony, imagine it continues and is in active service. This has to do with this immunity - in introductory words - which you have given to offences and public officials - I would say that, unfortunately, in the exercise of their duties nothing but this has been done. I have nothing more to add to the evolution of things. I would just like to point out that I had to resort to the Public Administration Auditor in order to carry out the audit. I am telling you that directly. It's really like that. Any action on the administrative side, if you wish, has been taken after the intervention of the Public Administration Auditor. I mean, there was an effort, I'd say, cover up, and I don't know to what extent. You see the delay time, too: three years to come not to a result but to an indication of these issues. I wish there were no! I wish, in any case, that there will be a faster administration of justice, but, as you can see, we are being prevented so much, so that so many problems are created. We expect your commitment to the separatism of these institutions, because you committed yourself to independence. This coexistence did not bring good results and, in practice, what happened with this opaque, as far as the operation was concerned. We are waiting for your decision on the institutions of Drama, which I would say covers the whole region. In relation to the number of institutions located in the region, the number of institutions in Drama is more appropriately increased. Strangely enough, the seat was moved elsewhere, and problems of this kind that we mentioned before are also created. We are also waiting for this implementation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u57	Madam Minister, do you have anything else to add?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u58	Yes, because a new issue has been raised, Madam President, and I would like to reply. First of all, Mr Kyriazides. As you know, the law that brought the sacked civil servants of the public, whom Mr Mitsotakis had fired, was not about felony cases, with no government. So if you think nobody brought these people back anywhere, it's wrong. The first is that. Secondly, obviously, Mr Kyriazidis, we said that we - and you see how many actions we are doing, many of which you are voting on, and that is why you are adopting them - a founding, prosperous state must be broken. In the prognostic track, you can see what we're doing. With regard to the institutional part, Madam President, the merger of these institutions, of sixty-three in the number of legal persons governed by public law, which the previous government has entered into by region, in fact, and in the light of the Memorandum of Understanding, has for other reasons been made to reduce costs. This reduction has not been achieved. It's obvious. However, what we are studying today, Mr Kyriazidis - and I think you know that, because I think he voted, if I remember correctly, New Democracy - is the new electronic record of all the institutions of the country, whether they are called legal entities governed by public law or private law within three months. The relevant CSR is now coming out, which promises them that within three months they must set out the number, not the personal information, the beneficiaries, the number of people who work voluntarily or not, the required skills, the beds, the income, the real estate, etc., for the purpose of eradicating or withdrawing their operation and you have voted for this. This for the first time gives the state the right to see the welfare landscape. Because, Mr. Kyriazidis, the landscape of welfare is not the sixty-three institutions. There is Kavala next door, which these days goes to close, which is a legal person under private law. It's a charity club. That's a thousand four hundred. Because in and out of these things it was conducted informally or formally - because others are certified and not - the state's pro-active policy. That was the state. In this we must lay rules and see the confusions or not and partnerships or not. It's not sixty-three alone. It's in every county and in Serres and Drama and everywhere. It is also how many private law and on what terms charitable unions operate, so that synergies exist. Without this new landscape and the new legislation that we will bring, we cannot talk about reordering the forward-looking map. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u59	Now the eighth Question 741/21-4-2017 by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy Mr Georgiou Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister for Migration Policy, on the lack of information on refugee housing in Kilkis, will be discussed. The Minister will answer Mr Ioannis Mousalas. Mr. Georgioda, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, as you have seen, this is a specific matter. It concerns the lack of information on the issues of refugee housing in rented apartments in Kilkis. In the previous period Kilkis has widely dealt with publicity in the country and your Ministry, in relation to the very large number of refugees who have stayed in organised structures. There was then a good cooperation, which also led to the decongestion of the Kilkis Regional Unit, from a burden which, in fact, could not afford for a long time. That is where I think you have also seen the solidarity shown by the local population. Now we've been through another phase. You obviously appreciate it as more positive that it is in a more positive direction - and I think that most of us can assess it - that is, in renting apartments, so that the conditions for refugees are good, but at the same time there is also some benefit for local communities. But the question which arises and which I think needs to be answered immediately by you is as follows: as far as the bodies implementing these programmes are concerned, which are carried out in cooperation with the UNHCR, at least in Kilkis is a non-governmental organisation. We are not deceiving the role and work of non-governmental organisations in the country - I imagine that each one is assessed by some, I am unable to do so - but I cannot have any institutional information on major issues that arise. I'll say the two most important in my prototype. One is the details of the programme and the number of beneficiaries. You understand very well that, as there was the principle of equalisation, which tried to achieve a point in the first phase, this is now necessary. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Madam President. In other words, it must be clear how many are involved in the programme, who decides how many are concerned with the programme depending on the population of each region and who supervises the implementation of such a programme in its details. That is the main question and we want an official answer from you as a ministry, because we really want to know. They want the Kilkisiots to know, because the lack of information creates reservations and reactions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u61	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u62	Mr Georganta, first of all I would like to remind Parliament that the people in central Macedonia, the people of Kilkis, have shown an unparalleled behaviour of solidarity in the great refugee and immigration crisis. I would also like to say to the House - I have been given the opportunity again - that you yourself were one of the factors, who played a very positive role in enabling this crisis to be settled as smoothly as possible for immigrants and refugees. I sincerely believe that your question is due to a misinformation. We started already in December 2015, in the middle of the major crisis, when fifteen, seventeen thousand each night in Piraeus and then headed to Kilkis, to Paionia, Idomeni. I signed together with the European Union and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees the first 20 000-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-bundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-hundred-le. It is something that worldwide has been shown to be safe that it is right and helps integrate. It helps the security and dignity of the people who are hosting immigrants and refugees, as well as immigrants and refugees themselves. In this context, the programme for twenty thousand posts - because it was "current" the greatest crisis that Europe has ever experienced - has been completed at the beginning of 2017 since 2015. Mayor Kilkis and Mayor Paionia were fully informed. Yesterday we had a meeting where Mayor Kilkis took the action of these organizations, the "OMNES" and the "ELIACHTIDA", which are "partners" of the High Authority and have excellent cooperation. They keep informing the municipality. In fact, we also have evidence that will be useful in the new programme. The number of beneficiaries every week is also given to the police, so we can know where everyone lives and all that stuff. In other words, there was no complaint of lack of information. I could tell you a lot. We have now taken a new programme for another ten thousand posts that we have now started and put the municipalities in. This is the major qualitative change, namely the fact that we have put the municipalities in. The High Authority, which has a great deal of experience, will be the one that will help technically to implement, but the programme is given to the municipalities. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Madam President, if you wish, I will need your tolerance, because there are some important elements that need to be given. That is why we have launched an information marathon. We have gone to Livadia, Crete, Thessaly, Attica, yesterday in central Macedonia, we download Peloponnese, we inform everyone. I want you to understand this: there are no numbers of beneficiaries. This could be there if someone were to proceed to a apartment requisition. The programme is a programme - I quote the word 'free market'. We're talking to the municipalities. Municipalities make these arms that can be operated and directed to the public. Anyone who wants to rent it. Anyone who doesn't want to rent it doesn't. Therefore, there can be no maximum number, a minor number, anything else. So far, the program's been going well. It's ten thousand places all over Greece. We're on our way everywhere. We have more apartment offer so far than we need. I would once again like to congratulate the municipalities, because with great flexibility and very much care they take this programme on them. To conclude, I should like to say that thanks to these programmes and thanks to the Europe-Turkey Agreement and the incredible limitation of the flows - and I would like to mention this, because I know how much you cared about it and how much you cared about it as a human, regardless of the parties and all these things - we were able to do less than ten months after the evacuation of this situation - we all remember it - and we have shut down in Raidestos, Cordogiannis, Kalochori, SK Market, Vajori, Sindo Frakaport and Karamanli, in Oriokastro, in Fesssa, in Kilkis, in Hersso, where your contribution was enormous, in Larissa, Kyfelochori, in Pieria, Petra Olympos, in Gianna the Chepelov. In central Macedonia, in the end, they will stay as official camps if the apartment program proceeds, only Diavadia and Lagadis. We're getting ready. The program of the apartments will depend on whether we can close the Derveny, the Dion, the Kavalari, Softex. So you will agree with me that this is a programme which changes the landscape in our country and we must support it, as is supported from everywhere. For the programme I would like to say something, to tell the Greeks: 'give your apartments which are free and for which you are looking for a tenant'. We have two years of experience. It's the safest thing there is. We don't have any fuss in the apartments, except that someone got into a fight with his wife or his children. We don't have roads to close, we don't have protests from either Greek or whom we host. I am sure we will have your support for this. If there were information gaps - obviously there would have been, I do not deny it, but in this case there was information - I will also give you the information.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Georgades has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u64	Minister, in order to bring this matter to the House, there was obviously a lack of information. The responsibility can be many. I would like to say this: by monitoring the implementation of the programme, I have seen that each region has differently done so. In Athens it took over a municipal company, the Development and Tourism View Company. She rented the apartments, she created a controller, she created a apartment regulation, she watched the leases, she made the hires of the staff. It was a choice made in Athens. I am pleased to see you yesterday at your meeting with the mayors in central Macedonia, you gave them the new programme and the possibility of their direct involvement. Because you understand that the presence of local government, but with an institutional role, not just with a decorative role and simple information from non-governmental organisations, is also the one that gives credibility to the implementation of a programme. Institutional role, institutional presence, institutional information and responsibility when a matter of responsibility arises. This is because my question that actually raised an issue about the presence of a public body in the implementation of these programmes is in a direction in which, as far as I can see, it is being implemented. But the first question remains. I cannot accept the rules of the free market in such a matter, because we do not know where it can lead. For example in Kilkis we don't have students, we have many apartments and it makes sense that apartment offers for rent are many. This does not mean, however, that we will eventually have in a small town twenty-five thousand inhabitants a number of benefits, which, as you can see, will be above a limit which can affect both life and the pace of life in such a small local society. I therefore believe that this is the role of the Ministry. The program is for all of Macedonia, for all of Greece. However, a provision for equalisation on the basis of population criteria rather than just offering the dwellings to be rented is an obligation for the state, in order to preserve peace, to be able to preserve the quality of life, to be able both sides, both refugees and the local population, to coexist in as smooth conditions as possible. I want to think you'll see that, too. Because there is another Thessaloniki that has seventy with eighty thousand students and you can't easily find apartments for rent and another Kilkis that doesn't really have someone anymore to stay there. They're gone, so many people have emigrated. There's no army. There are no students. So you know it's a lot of free apartments. This is my big objection. There's got to be a wall that has something to do with the population of each area. I would like to believe that this opportunity you have given for the presence of the municipalities or companies of the municipalities in this programme may have to be established as compulsory. Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u65	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u66	Mr Georgioda, honourable Members, Madam President, we cannot legally and in terms of rights. The Ministry, through the reception service which is now being created, has its mind, is trying on the basis of various factors, but mainly factors facilitating people and guests to take an intervention over there. But I would like to say to you - and I must always say this to the House - that the programme concerns asylum seekers. The asylum seeker has exactly the same rights as me, with you, Mr Georganta, with you as well, Madam President. Let me still say this. We had a very big success. We are changing funding programmes with Mr. Haritsis, with the help of Mr. Avramopoulos and with the help of Mr. Stylianides. We've already been through a dismantling of the siege and giving the cash card to people. That removes the stack, because no matter how careful it is, all of this, when you eat ten months, eight months, nine months of pile, you're fine. It gives these people a dignity, they make their plans and returns money to Greek society. The same goes for the apartments. In this transition we already have more than 70% in the hinterland. I believe that by the end of June we will have completed at 100%. We're moving on to the apartments. We have a change of funding from DG HOME to DG ECO and from DG ECO to DG HOME. I would like to say to the House, in order to know that this is a huge step and that during this effort there will also be 'holes', namely problems. The administrative mechanism, including the European Union and our own, is taking on a huge burden. So far we're doing good. Small holes are created. They'll be created bigger and they'll be covered. I'll finish with one more thing, Mr. Georgioda. I think that where the apartments have been implemented, people are happy. In Attica, the criteria were the criteria that we set as the European Union, as a High Commissioner and a Ministry of Migration Policy. The same is now true of a difference, namely that we are putting the municipalities in, because now we have been able to get the municipalities, then we are drowning. I would like to tell you that the view of the government and of my own personal opinion is that the best body to take on membership, to take over the reception, at the end of the day is local government with a state supervision. Sadly, this is something that cannot be done when seventeen to twenty thousand people come a day. It hasn't been more than ten months since these people were trapped here. Believe me that the government, since the Europe-Turkey Agreement is in force, is in this direction guided by state supervision by the municipalities to take on the integration of those remaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, too. Next is the first with number 869/23-5-2017 a top question by the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition of the Radical Left, Elias Kamaterou, to the Minister for Environment and Energy, on the subject: "PDO (Organised Development Area of Water Agriculture) in Kalymnos". Mr Kamaterre, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'm sorry we brought you here today. We know your heavy schedule, but - believe me - the reason is very serious. The issue of aquaculture concerns not only Kalymnos but the whole country. The example of Kalymnos, however, is characteristic. In 2011, a joint ministerial decision established a so-called Spatial Planning and Sustainable Development Special Framework for Aquaculture. This defined some areas where aquaculture can be developed. Let me say that it was relatively rough. It has not taken into account local communities, which have not been well placed - well placed. Various recent studies should normally be carried out. This has caused terrible problems in Kalymnos. As you know, Kalymnos has been designated the island of fishermen. It has the largest fishing fleet. So those who did the spatial planning felt it is advisable that, since they are fishermen, we should make them as many aquaculture as possible. Has anyone thought if aquaculture is compatible with fishermen? And we know that, although aquaculture is an activity that offers to the national economy, that is right, it also does export, but it must be done in such a way that it does not cause problems for local communities and, more importantly, it will not undermine future development in the direction of sustainability. It is no coincidence that these companies have almost become a monopoly. And of course, they do not benefit to the extent that local communities should. On the other hand, they pose a problem, especially in Kalymnos, with room for the development of irritating tourism, divestment tourism. See, for example, the sloppyness I am telling you: in the area defined for aquaculture, a diving park is also provided. I'm telling you to understand the problem. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Because I will have a secondary one, I conclude with the question, which is clear, Minister: There is a possibility with a law that we adopted in 2016, No.4447, to revise these programmes after five years. It's been five years. What do you think and what do you intend to do about it? And a second question: Until then - why does that take some time - what can we do? Because licences are already granted for further farming in these areas and Kalymnos is considered to be saturated with decisions by the Municipal Council, the Regional Council, which the services do not take into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u69	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I should like to begin with our ministry's institutional framework and policy now. As you rightly said, the starting point was the joint ministerial decision of 2011 to approve the Special Spatial Planning and Sustainable Development for aquaculture, which defines the areas for the development of water crops for the entire Greek area. In addition, there is provision in bill 4447/2016 for the country's spatial planning. In particular, Article 5 of this Act provides that the specific spatial frameworks are to be reviewed every five years, if there is a documented need for this, by the evaluation reports provided for in the Act. Since the five-year period has elapsed, but also a large number of other questions submitted to the Spatial Planning Directorate for aquaculture, it is considered necessary to speed up their review procedures. In the context of the evaluation, therefore, the Ministry, taking into account the data from both local communities, is trying to ensure and maintain the environmental value of sensitive areas, and also to support a sector that is very important. With regard to the second question, which concerns WIPOs, the establishment of WIPOs requires the submission of a relevant proposal to establish good functioning and environmental impact studies, so our position is very clear. We want the organised study together with the environmental study and the establishment of the WHO, and this is a European framework that sets order on this subject and at the same time creates a much better impact framework and examination of environmental and other impacts. Especially now for the establishment of PDOs in the region of Leros and Kalymnos has been submitted to the RIS. The proposed PDO includes the existing farms on the island of Leros and the neighbouring islands, as well as the existing plant in Glaronisia between Leros and Kalymnos. The proposed new positions will be judged in the process of assessing the request for the establishment of WHI, in which, of course, the views of the services and bodies and local society will be taken into account. As far as the existing legally authorised and operating farms are concerned, we should once again point out that we support this sector. It is primarily an export sector with huge success and has a huge economic impact on the Greek society. Therefore, within the framework of European directives and given the importance of the sector, the establishment of WIPOs is a measure in this direction and support for the sector, with more organised spatial planning and, at the same time, clarification by rules and regulations, which measures the environmental impact and examines all the issues you have suggested. In conclusion, we recognise the enormous importance of water-growing in the economy of coastal and island regions. At the same time, it is a strategic option for us now to settle all this sector in Greece by establishing, approving and operating WHIs, which I repeat, is an institutional framework strictly European.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u71	Mr. Cameroon has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u72	Minister, I was expecting the answer that the government - because it is in its programme - will revise these spatial plans in a more rational direction to the benefit of both local society and sustainable development. But, allow me, it is an opportunity to clarify what is happening with the establishment of the Organised Rural Development Areas. Because the plan takes a long time to revise spatial planning, and as you have already said - and we know - a request has been made for the establishment of the organised development area. And not just that. The day before yesterday, a decentralised administration official went to serve on site a fishing permit, an extension of ten acres in forty acres in Kalymnos. In a question from my own to the services: 'But, well since you have the opposite view of local government, the municipality and the region', the unanimous opinion, Mr Minister, 'the world rises up, mobilizes, is ready for mobilisation, why are you licensed?' And the answer was that the view of local government is not decisive. Because, Minister, you know how the services have been working all these years and under what regime, I think we have a responsibility - and you personally as Minister - to the Ministry, through these procedures that you have said that they are necessary to follow, through the procedures of the establishment of Organised Rural Development Areas, but in the direction of rational management and in order not to do what has been done so far, what demands are made by the Ministry, to examine them in every respect and not just formally, as the services which have an environmental study that says what measures are taken to prevent water from being polluted, etc., but to examine them effectively and to base - because they are aware of what is best and not what is going on in the decision-making and municipal councils and regional councils. Perhaps by then - you will judge that, which you know better - it is advisable that there should be some circular towards the services, which are licensed without taking into account the decisions of local communities, to be more careful. In any case, because the last word has him with the Ministry, I am sure you would take the view of local communities into account. Kalymnos, for example, to strengthen what I said before the conflict of use, in addition to what I said to you, namely that a divestment park is provided in a zone that may be permitted for fish farming, has great potential for development in other activities - and we must do so - which is to the benefit of local society, which is contrary to the development of fish farming. He's saturated, has enough fish farms. They're helping. It has climbing tourism, it has divestment, it has fishing, other than that concerning the development of local products, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u73	Minister, do you want the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u74	No, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u75	Thank you. The first question will be discussed under number 870/23-5-2017 of the MP Cyclades of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Nikolaou Symbleniou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Dimensional structures and offenders of beaches in Mykonos". Mr. Symblene, you have the floor for two minutes to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, we are all aware that the beautiful island of Mykonos, which is one of the most attractive world tourist destinations - precisely for this reason, as in other areas of high tourist development - leads many illusory interests to seek an unreasonable exploitation of the excellent natural beauty, the coastlines, the beaches and in general the natural environment of the island, beyond and above existing laws. In recent years, too many complaints, municipal movements, reasoning and ordinary citizens have been made. Every time I go to Mykonos exactly these things denounce me. They contain daily phenomena of urban arbitrariness, illegal structures, offspring of beaches, saints, etc. Even entire shopping centres have been built illegally and operate to some extent illegally. Significantly, the police force, which too is not enough, has seized too many machines, beetoneers, etc., who work at night uninterruptedly to build illegally and all they confiscate, parade out into the courtyard of the police department. A characteristic case, beyond all else, is the beach of Panormos, which has operated since 2016 with a restaurant without permission and despite the fact that the police sealed this shop, the next day it continued to work. This beach is protected multiplely from the Presidential Decree on Land Uses in 2043/2005, as well as as as an archaeological site, as well as as as a wetland, on the list of island wetlands. These phenomena are the result of subscribing all the co-responsible services, in particular the Town, where a permanent townkeeper has the right to sign and he is in legal proceedings, because he has had serious criminal offences since May 2016 that have not finalised. It's working, right now, because there was no other way. Planning had to work. There are two other contractors without the right to sign. The question, then, is: First, what measures will the Ministry take to work effectively and effectively on the island's town planning, i.e. to be staffed and able to do its job? Because needs are enormous. Secondly, how will the beaches of excellent natural beauty and especially Panormos and other beaches be protected? Will there ultimately be direct intervention by environmental inspectors in order to determine the size and quality of the illegality? Will there be specific sanctions and rules for Mykonos finally to function in a good administration and to protect the excellent environmentally sound ones it has? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u77	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u78	I'll say three things. The first is about the status of Mykonos. Mykonos has not been classified as "NATURA", but has three insular wetlands which are protected, in accordance with its provisions from 2012 presidential decree. Also, since 2015 there has been a special presidential decree on Mykonos and the non-planned areas. The Ministry is obviously in favour of legality, transparency and respect. Therefore, loopholes of beaches for no reason can and should not be tolerated. The second issue concerns subscribing. It is paradoxical indeed that in Mykonos there is no practical staff or town planning. There's a mechanic, like you said right. On 7 April, the coverage of three regular staff seats in the Municipality of Mykonos was approved by all eighty two approvals given to OTAs I and II Grade. So there was a priority in covering the positions of a civil engineer. The municipality was then asked to be a specialist in civil engineering, engineering and engineering. Therefore, the AACC will declare the relevant approvals of the three positions I mentioned. With regard to the recruitment of privately-owned private-law time or on a project lease contract, the Ministry of Interior informed us that it has informed all the beneficiaries of the country to submit their requests in order to promote them for approval. To date, from the Municipality of Mykonos, we do not have the relevant request. Extremely for the operation of the Town, until the staff with the necessary staff I mentioned, the Ministry of Interior examines its operation with administrative support. In the third question for checks, I would remind you that the Ministry of Interior on Mykonos island has formed proceedings for breach of Law 1539/38 on the protection of public buildings and of the general building regulation, while the Greek police forces have proceeded with a series of arrests in the context of the self-declared procedure. The Municipality of Mykonos has also been informed of these violations. There are several checks carried out because of the seriousness of the situation. However, we recognise and commit that environmental inspectors will be directly integrated into their planning, environmental audits in Mykonos, which will take place as soon as possible. Finally, I should like to mention that in 2015 the construction inspectors had coordinated demolitions in the arbitrary constructions within the sea along the coast of Kalafatis Mykonos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Armalene has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u80	I really thank the Minister very much, who seems to have understood the scale of the problem. Of course, on the one hand we are clearly in favour of tourism development and healthy entrepreneurship, but at the same time we must protect the natural environment by rules that the state has established or will adopt in the future. It is very important that the Minister has committed himself to the descent of environmental inspectors in Mykonos. From our experience with other regions, the only twelve environmental inspectors, who, if I am not mistaken, exist, are a very small number to deal with the very big problems that exist throughout the country. We understand the difficulties, but you must also see beyond the downhill and speed up the inspectors' reports. Usually inspectors ask for an apology from some local authorities. This apology comes then in order to draw up a report and to conclude the finding out what has happened and what needs to be done, whether or not measures have to be taken, they are too late. There is a long delay, so that we do not have substantial and practical results in everyday life. Also, it is very important that what you said about the three engineering positions in the Municipality of Mykonos, as long as they serve the town and not to be used for other jobs, because, as we know, all the municipalities at the moment, especially the islanders, are having a subsecution problem, so the mayor can use them in other jobs and not where he needs them. In conclusion, I would like to say that, in fact, all your services - and also your fellow ministries - must find a way of speeding up controls, in the good sense of the term, so that we do not just remain superficial. Indeed, the police with their little power are doing everything they can. We have even recently visited all the services in Mykonos and the three SYRIZA MPs, and we have seen closely that there is a sub-station in both the Port and the Police, of course in the Town and also in a number of other public services. There's also the problem that they can't find houses to stay. It is also another big issue, which concerns the very high level of tourist islands and all the regions of the country. In any case, I am in your commitment that environmental inspectors will soon be there to see from a close point of view all the problems that we have encountered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u81	An 11th question will be discussed under number 742/21-4-2017 (B) by MP V' Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the great charges in PPC's accounts. I think there were some announcements made by the Prime Minister yesterday at the Ministry of Mr. Stathakis. You have the floor for two minutes, Mr Kammene, to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u82	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Minister. We had the pleasure of seeing you in the morning at a morning station. You've given a lot of explanation in relation to the question I've submitted a long time ago. It's good to discuss some things. I have two observations. I will not waste your time, nor your Bureau and colleagues, because matters have been analysed. The main issue that arises is how to charge, the law and the unjust charge for the utilities of the services of general interest. When you exceed the kilowatts and since 2000 you go on 2001, or from the 3000 you go on 3001 there is no escalating charge, but there is a charge from the first kilowatt now. We saw that there was increased consumption in winter, for the well-known reasons, because the world had no oil in the homes and had to burn electricity, stoves and so on. This is how the kilowatts of consumption increased and almost doubled the charge on the household, because there was no law of escalating charges. I'll come back to my dentistry. Let us have our first debate and see how the Ministry is anticipating and whether this unfair methodology is expected to be restored and replaced by a fair escalating charge, so as to streamline charges and protect the real weak parts of the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u83	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Madam President. As you know, the way in which the tariffs for domestic consumption are determined - and it concerns all suppliers, not only PPC, but all suppliers - the pricing method is uniform and has the problem identified, especially this year. While the principle is correct - which says that the higher consumption is the more expensive the current, so that this measure is purely social, that is to say, small households and small households pay cheaper electricity than households who have very high consumption, due to large housing or other uses - and so the principle is correct, the way in which the calculation has so far been done is in the form of a ladder, which you have described very well. There's a low price of electricity up to 1,550, 2,000 and so on. Once it's 2,001 it's a ladder and it's changing all the way of calculating it. This is considered to be inappropriate in many respects and is in breach of the right principle on which the idea of price progressiveity is based. This winter - the statistics we have now - we had an increase of 9% in consumption - on average - of households, for the reasons you explained, and that really changed scales and blew off the electricity bills, as it put the highest price in total consumption, and this caused increases of 20%, 25% and 30%. In addition, it is also the issue of NGOs, which follow the current value pro rata by analogy. As you know, the NGOs are the costs that all consumers pay, so that there is a uniform price throughout Greece, while the islands have very high production costs, because we have plants producing fuel oil, oil, etc., which is much more expensive than the production made with lignite or other forms. Therefore, this extra cost of the islands is paid by all consumers. On this subject the announcements were made, both in the first and second, on the occasion of the presence of the Prime Minister, which he made directly beforehand. We are both trying to deal with them: one, the YOI, with the acceleration of the connections between the islands. The "Cyclades 1", "Cyclades B", is at a fairly advanced stage the interconnection of the Peloponnese - Crete, we want to speed up the interconnection of Crete - Attica. So one answer is that. The second is that the Energy Regulatory Authority, the independent authority that makes tariffs, will examine and directly have specific proposals on how to normalise the electricity charge and, instead of the form of the ladder we have at the moment, to have a more progressive and more linear change, which will create a fairer charging system. I repeat, this will be binding on all energy providers and their invoice and it is therefore and we seek to be a change that will be in the interests of the consumer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u85	They have said to the Committee on Institutions that in a month's time - it has already been twenty days - they will submit the proposals for the reduction of the tariff. So we all wait in agony.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u86	We're close.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u87	Mr. Kammenos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u88	You're right, Madam President. Thank you, Minister, for covering the whole of my question with your answer. I'm going to testify in the minutes some calculations I've made for this extra kilowatt now, for knowledge and information, for colleagues as well. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Kammenos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Another question arises. Here we started as government and we accepted HISPIA. Let me remind the House and those who hear that this started from Mr Venizelos' illegality to put the EMCDDA in PPC's collecting mechanism. PPC's debts increased because the world instead of the electricity also paid the property tax from 2012 onwards, so the tax was increased so much that the electricity could not be paid. Not to gloss about what we pulled and what we've been living for. However, we continue to have charges within PPC's super-third party account and a question arises which has come by letter to my office and I say it to discuss it in the future, whether or not the power cut for a third-party debt is constitutional or not. I'm telling you, there have been substantiated proposals and I don't know what to say. So if you don't pay the PPC, if you don't pay the ERT, or if you don't pay the IPTO or you don't pay the municipality charges, which are collected through PPC's account - because you don't have, I'm not saying you're doing it on a leap, because you remember that it had been done before, I don't pay the money, and if you don't have the ability to pay a super-thirds charge, is it constitutional to cut off the current of a citizen? This is something that we will deal with, because now the charges for third parties are too many, a VAT is in place there, there is the unfairness, as we have said and acknowledged, of non-stage and fair charges, so the entire bill is in the air and we have to be in the problem. Again, let us look at the issue of the social invoice and whether we need to cut the current on people who really and prove themselves cannot, on the basis of income criteria - because they are controlled, everything is cross-checked - pay for a third-party charge collected through PPC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u89	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u90	I would just like to clarify something, because now PPC's accounts are very transparent, but also because the energy market has been separated: separate is PPC which produces energy, but separate is the network that brings us the electricity in our home, separate is one topic or another, separate is EMEPAR, a separate topic, the compensation we give to renewable energy producers. This transparent account is required and, on the basis of European regulations, it must not be confused with possible third-party charges, which are very specific now on PPC's account, and these are for municipal fees, television and others. It should therefore also be clear to consumers that both EMCDDA and IPTO and the YOIs and so on, these charges are read, but they are charges that remain within the energy, are not additional charges to third parties. It shares a sum that goes to those who are responsible for the high or low trend in the transfer of energy or for the compensation of RES and are collected and compensated by these producers, so money is recycled through this process. But the transparent account is one step, because it was not previously transparent what we were paying and where. Today, therefore, since the various segments of the energy market have been separated, it has to be clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Minister. I will now announce the timely questions that will not be discussed. There is also a document from the General Secretariat of the Government on these questions, which will not be discussed. Therefore, the second question under number 864/22-5-2017 by MP Kosanis of New Democracy Mr. Georgios Kasapidis will not be discussed with the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The epidemic insects in forest ecosystems cause loss of income to farmers in Kosanis. Unexploded 100 cm. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Department responsible is the Ministry of Environment and Energy. The third, with number 862-22-5-2017, topical question from the F Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the problems of the operation and the plan for the closure of the Chronic Pathway of Scaramaga children, will not be debated as a result of an impediment by the MEP. The first, with number 858/19-5-2017, top-circuit question (A) by the Member of the Aetolokarnania Parliament, Mr Marios Salma, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the OPEKEPE cross-checks in Lepennos Aetolocarnania, will not be discussed due to an obstruction of the relevant Minister and will be redefined for discussion. The second, with number 863/22-5-2017, top-stage question by the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of the Interior, on the immediate response to the problem that has arisen with contractors in the cleanliness of the OTAs, will not be discussed, due to the impediment of the relevant Minister and will be redefined for discussion. The fourth question under number 622/20-3-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukorou, concerning the payment of the transport of students by means of special student cards with public transport, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the relevant Minister and will be redefined for discussion. The third, with number 856/17-5-2017, top-circuit question (A) by Piraeus I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouziou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "About the main pension of Greek seafarers", will not be discussed as a result of an obstruction from the Minister of Labour. The fourth question under number 861/22-5-2017 of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the cancellation of the certificates of people with chronic illnesses from the Centres for the Certification of Disability (Certification of Persons), will not be discussed as a result of a failure by the Minister of Labour. The fifth, under No. 857/18-5-2017, topical question by MP 2, Potamios, Georgios Amyras, Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning museum hours and archaeological sites during the summer season, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Culture and Sports, Lydias Konordos, due to outstanding commitments. The first, with number 859/19-5-2017, topical question by Member of the Magnesia Parliament, Mr Christos Boukorous, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on tourism with light aircraft, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister for Transport and Infrastructure, Mr. Mavragani, due to a workload. The second question under number 860/22-5-2017 by MP I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Antonio Gregos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “Acknowledgement of the sacred monument of the “Unknown Soldier”, as a result of continuous impunity”, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Home Affairs Mr. Toska, due to a workload. The third, with number 874/23-5-2017, top-cycle question (B) by MP II Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Sakis Vardalis to the Finance and National Defence Ministers, on the Greek Vehicle Industry "ELVO S.A.", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The ninth under number 737/11-4-2017 a topical question by MP 2 of Athens, Mr. Georgios Amyrias, to the Minister of Finance, on the 'SIEMENS' case, will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou, due to a workload. The third, under number 88/23-5-2017, topical second-cycle question (B) by Independent Achaias MP Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “In the “Get back the money”, what the President of Switzerland D replied. It will not be discussed because of an impediment by the State Secretary for Finance, Mr Catherine Papanatziou, because of a workload. The sixth question under number 711/10-4-2017 by MP Drama of New Democracy Mr. Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport concerning the implementation of the project on the construction of the Drama - Amphipolis road axis will not be discussed due to the absence of Mr. Spirtzis from Athens. The thirteenth question under number 740/21-4-2017 by MP Heraklion of the New Democracy, Eleftherios Aygenakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: “Creating new public works - weakening the “Organization for the Development of Crete (OAK)” - will also not be discussed due to the absence of Minister Spirtzi from Athens. The tenth under number 738/11-4-2017 topical question by Evia MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religion, on the subject: "Without any updates, illegal immigrants were installed in the Pentelis High School", they will not be discussed because of Mr. Gavroglou's impediment, due to a workload. The first question with number 288525-1-2017 question of the circle of petitions and questions by the Deputy Drama of the New Democracy, Dimitrios Kyriazides to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the Government's intentions regarding the operation and future of the Architecture Department of the Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, which is based in Drama, will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Gavroglou, due to a workload. The twelfth question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Health, concerning the operation of the Psychiatric Clinic of the General Hospital of Chania "Agios Georgios", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. The second question, number 3933/6-3-2017, of the circle of petitions and questions by MP of Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the privatisation of regional airports, will not be discussed, due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Haritsis. The fifth, under No. 699/6-4-2017, topical question by the MP Laconia of the New Republic, Athanasios Davakis, to the Minister of Health, on the further weakenment of the Centre for Health of the Municipality of Sparta, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthi, on account of a workload. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber “ENIZELOS” and were informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty-five students and students and five fellow teachers from the private primary school “The Apostle Paul”. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-two American students and two teachers from the University "ST". JOHN'S’. The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u92	Madam President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u93	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u94	As you know and read a moment ago, it was my timely question to the Minister for Health to be discussed, in the order of questions that are postponed, including mine. I have tabled this question since April and with constant impediments and demands for a workload, the Minister is not coming to answer. I do not want to talk about the importance of the matter now, because I shall concentrate on the substance of the matter, although it concerns health issues and should be given priority over the responsibilities of the Minister. Invoking a workload makes us think that the present ministers, I congratulate them on coming and answering, including Mr Stathakis, do not have such a workload to come to Parliament. In order not to get there, Madam President, on the point of what Mr Cameroon said a moment ago, we should apologise to the Minister of State for bringing you to the House to answer us. Madam President, the space you are presently representing, the Bureau - I would ask you to make a specific reference to the President of this House - is a public accountability area for the Government. The Government is invited to Parliament to reply to Members and at least to the unfortunate statement that 'there is a workload and does not come to the House' must be deleted. It is sad that it is happening. Not just now. It has also happened in the past, but now it has been institutionalised.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u95	All right, Mr. Davaki. As you said, it's not just your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u96	Madam President, this has no role to play.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u97	A month's been delayed. You said it was from April. There are others since January.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u98	Good, even worse, Madam President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u99	But that's what's going on. What do we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u100	I'm hanging up with this, Madam President. I ask the Minister to come next time. It concerns the health centre of an area such as the Taygetos Mountain, and in particular the Castoreian Health Center.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u101	Okay. All local MPs are interested in residents' issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u102	Do not homogenize it, Madam President, and do not undermine it in this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u103	How do we do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u104	I'm already in exchange with you, I like you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u105	Okay, but you're out of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u106	I'm not out of order at all. I'd beg...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, and I'll pass it on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u108	I would ask you to reply as President of this House and not as a government advocate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u109	That's my answer. I gave you, I say, an irregular reason. You have been informed by the Secretariat that your question will not be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u110	Please answer as President of this House and not as a representative of the Government!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u111	Comeing here and having a conversation about it makes no sense.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u112	You are President of this House, you are not a representative of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u113	But I don't answer as a representative of SYRIZA. I apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u114	I'm very noble. Don't ruin it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Davakis, don't try my tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u116	Please pass on to the government...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Davakis, don't try my tolerance. I gave you the floor irregularly. It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u118	Represent the House, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u119	The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-26-S1-commons.u120	(a) Topical and urgent debate on Question No 26/15-2017 pursuant to Rule 134(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, pursuant to the agenda distributed.
