ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the topical and urgent debate, I would like to make a statement to this House. The President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and the MPs of his party tabled a law proposal on 23-10-2017: "Exercise of the right to vote during the parliamentary elections, the Democrat Hellenism and voters who are abroad". It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with the fifth under the number 27/5-10-2017 topical question by MP Laconia of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Leonidas Gregorakos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Summary of hospitals in intensive treatment units (PID) private clinics". Mr. Gregorakos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. On 19 September I read a post which was very concerned about the fact that there is a great opening-up between the costs of the private sector and the public health sector in the issues of intensive care units. The report even says that public sector IDs cost around 3,500 euros a day, while in the private sector the National Health System pays around 750 to 800 euros a day. There is even the information in this post, which I have tabled, and the Minister knows it, that there is also a further issue of reducing the compensation to the private intensive care units. I would like the Minister to answer my question as follows. Is it true the cost of this post that in the public sector it is so high, namely EUR 3,500 a day? Is it also true that the costs in the private sector are still going to be reduced? My agony is this: If, in fact, this is such a small cost in the private sector, who pays for it? In other words, I am thinking that at some point Greek citizens are likely to pay a difference in the private sector. That's what the Minister should tell us. Secondly, if it falls further, I believe that the private sector will not give the beds the percentage that it gives the National Health System at the difficult times that the place passes. We saw it last year, when we had the flu issue and they had not been prepared then in terms of CEDEFOP and health recruitment and we had these huge problems. I would ask the Minister, if he has any evidence on this matter, to tell us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u3	Thank you too, Mr. Gregoraco. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Gregoraco, you haven't testified the post. What newspaper is it from?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u5	I've got it for you. It's September 19th.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u6	Yeah, but to what I've been given, there isn't. What newspaper is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u7	"The NEWs" must have been.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u8	You're talking about the health field paper. ‘SEA’ is not a Healthcare newspaper. It doesn't matter, just because I didn't find it in the papers. First of all I thank you for the question, because it gives me an opportunity to answer very specifically and with numbers on a number of things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u9	Minister, I'm going to interrupt you. It's Miss Karagiannopoulou's 19-9-2017 at itronet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u10	First and foremost, the fact that you ask me this question demonstrates, indirectly but clearly, that you too recognise that the situation in the ICUs of public hospitals is much better than the one we have received. Otherwise, as a member of the Democratic Alliance and a party which historically contributed to the creation of the National Health System, I would first be the member of the National Health System. I'm starting the question here, and it matters. In February 2015, on the basis of the first official record we had when we entered the government, in a total of six hundred and some developed beds were in operation four hundred and thirty-eight. This is February 2015. On 30-07-2017, which is the last official record - it is now being prepared, but I cannot announce it, because it is not officially completed yet - in a total of six hundred and sixty-six developed, there were five hundred sixty-six. We added, in other words, a hundred twenty to one hundred to thirty beds more to the public health system. You remember the panic that had been done in a series of media and last year in relation to closed beds, etc. Now that all this has been opened, have you seen anyone say it? Because we don't just say words, we do actions. Secondly, from the CEDEFOP data, they have undertaken duty in both phases of the sixty-four doctors, two hundred sixty-eight nurses and sixty-sixteen assistant nurses, who contributed to the opening of these beds - but not only these but also nurses who were taken either by the permanent notices or by the subsidiary notices. Thirdly, and more importantly of all - and I would like you to recognise this - it is that we have recently given about a month ago the total number of empty doctors' seats at the ICUs, MENN, the Children's Method, units of newborns from all over the country in a contract notice. There is currently no vacant organic position of medical staff in all hospitals in the country, which is not in a contract notice, a hundred and eighty - six, which means that other beds will be opened. Of course, it takes further reinforcement with nursing staff to open the rest. I'm going to what you're asking. Or should I say it in my denture?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u11	I have no objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u12	That's all about the public sector. Watch out now. Because you and I have made directors of private sector ICUs, and we know the space from the very media, and we know that there are private ICUs, which operate as they work, and the public, in the sense of providing the level of care that the patient needs - that I mean - and there are private ICUs, which either face a very specific range of incidents or - I say so - collect brains and water them. Forgive me for expressing, you understand what we mean in this colloquium. I'm just saying that, because we've done exactly the same job. Watch out. We're doing exactly the same backwards from what you said, and I don't know where this site is from, and I don't know who, i.e., gave them this information - for the first time...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u13	It's last name.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u14	Okay, she doesn't know what she's saying, and I say it like that, she doesn't know what she's saying. If, then, this lady journalist and all those who probably reproduced this post, he would see that in the EEA for the first time this year the cost of hospitalisation of private clinics, i.e. the coverage on the part of the EEAS of closed integrated hospitals for the treatment of insured persons in private clinics, on the basis of the redistribution made to all categories of EEA service providers, from 230 million this year to 265, because it was reasonable to cover the increase in VAT rate from 13% to 24%. Secondly and most importantly, it was: It is what - which I think you were in that day in the debate - that the New Democracy Health Sector gave Mr Mitsotakis to testify in a scandal here that I changed the method of calculating the lowback of 2013 and 2014 and so on. And I proved that shit, it was what they gave him to say. For the first time in time, we distinguished the codes. So we didn't say it's a bucket that's all falling in like it's been so far, so 230 million was so far. How many clinics were enclosed with the EEAS? About sixty-five. Everyone puts in this bucket and everything that goes beyond cuts. Apart from the rebate, the volume discount, everything that goes horizontally becomes cut to everyone. We didn't do that, Mr. Gregoraco, and the journalist should have seen it, but you too. We have said that the 265 million that we put as a expenditure limit for the EEAS this year - which is 35 million more than last year, and which enabled us to increase the level of expenditure that we achieved in the negotiations with the Troika, from 1,400 million to 1,525 million - to be allocated as follows: 166 million goes to general hospitals. The 51 million go to special intervention hospitals. The 3 million go to the proprietary medicine and 21 million go to intensive care units. That is all, if you saw it and if you made a simple account, you would understand that in this way we distinguish and render Caesar Caesar's accounts. In other words, a low-capacity clinic will give closed consolidated hospitals falling into the 161 million-dollar bucket of general hospitals. A private clinic that can perform heart surgery, neurosurgery embolisms, transdermal intercutor valves, etc. She's gonna drop her hospitals at the 51 million-dollar code. A clinic that has a contract with EEAS for the ICU - why don't they give all their beds - will throw these hospitals in the 21 million bucket.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u15	Minister, the rest in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u16	I'm going to continue the explanation in my second speech. But if you make an account, you'll see that anything but what the post writes happens. Other things will just happen, because we want with those who actually have a contract to offer what we need to the patient when needed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Gregoraco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u18	Mr President, the Minister has the right to overthrow things as he wants. My question is clear. In the public sector, the intensive care unit makes 3,500 euros. In the private sector, the EEAS provides intensive treatment units with 750 euros a day. If that's true, the clinic officer falls out? If the clinical chief falls out and objectively can't get through because with 750 euros it's hard to get a private sector bed with drugs, doctors, on-calls and everything he does, it's too small the cost. The report says that there is a case of this amount of EUR 750 or 700 per day, still falling. That's my question. Will it decrease more? I have done several studies, and Mr Polakis knows them, studies between the private sector and the public sector, about how much an intensive care unit is costing the public sector and how much an intensive care unit is costing the private sector. So - if it is true - since this is a truly excessive cost, in the intensive care units of the public sector, we still support this situation as if the private sector were not Greek citizens, are not Greek scientists? Of course, it gives me a chance today to tell him what they're writing about EPPY and all of this. EOPY at the moment by a truly strong organization, who supported with all their powers, is transferred by a presidential decree to the Minister. Second, are we going to other reductions? I am anxious to say whether we will go to other reductions. I told you, in the private sector, they also work there Greek citizens and we should not only support the state sector in that country. There are also citizens in the private sector, from which we need beds. What Thanasis did then, with our support, who rented beds from the private sector, which we needed, gave us a solution to our problem. If tomorrow - tomorrow we have this big problem again, the private sector, if you lower prices - because these prices are really humiliating - will not give us the beds and will be paid by the Greek citizen. My question is this: have they thought about this, or do they want to make cuts in the private sector, because there is an ideological conception of the public sector? Does Mr. Paulakis know how much the bed costs in the public sector? I want an answer to that, nothing more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u19	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u20	I'm still where I stopped. I believe that your absence of reference to everything we have done in the public sector is a continuation of recognition of what has been done. And I keep going. What was the problem, Mr. Gregoraco, in private...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Polakis, why do you come up with this? Don't conclude on me. I asked you something.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u22	Let's move on with the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u23	Listen, you're confusing some things that you're probably confusing. Don't compare eggs to potatoes. It is another thing the cost of the private sector and the cost of the public sector. And I'm very clear about that. I've worked in the private sector for thirteen years of my life.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u24	Make it five hundred!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u25	Attention is made in the public sector to train specialists in the ICM. In the public sector, there is, as a whole, a much higher percentage than in the private sector of nurses per bed than in the private sector. You know that, too, where you worked. Thirdly, the possibility of a series of special interventions and healing techniques is much larger in the public sector than in the private sector. I was running a unit for a few years that did what the best government did. Our total cost at that time, which was the time when the sausage dogs tied up, played at 1,500 to 1,700 euros. The corresponding cost of the public sector, which again - I repeat - tied sausage dogs, was 4,000 euros, without taking account of the cost of payroll. That was the reality. And if my memory doesn't cheat on me, I guess you must have ruled then. And that's not exactly the price you're saying. The prices again that Mr. Loverdos had made - if my memory doesn't cheat on me, they're not the 750 that you're saying. It's 700 in the first three days, 500 after, until the fifteenth and 350 after. That's absurd. Take care, then, is the first step. Firstly, the comparison cannot be made. As we control and we will go further, the public sector as a whole, so we will check through the method of supply and the cost of intensive care units. The main thing, however, is to strengthen the ability of the public system to offer this coverage. Secondly, in the private sector we will make contracts, perhaps even at a different level, with those that can offer patients. A private clinic, which can treat a trauma in the same way as a public hospital - and there are very few of these clinics - is clearly the one and must be evacuated as necessary. A private clinic that can get a stroke, a pneumonia from aspiration, and only as an incident or someone with a severe cranial brain, who has no potential - you know this is happening to a very large extent - will not cost her more than 750. A multiraculous man clearly and clearly costs. So what we have done - and understand it - is by distinguishing the codes, there is no possibility of further cutting. On the one hand, and once we see what beds we will still develop in the public sector, there will be a contract that we want so many more beds, which we will not get from the extreme, we will choose who we will happen to. Because not everyone can offer the same. I've worked in three separate clinics. The two can offer them, the three cannot. I call it that. And you know it. For example, in the clinic you were working - let's say - there was no possibility of blood donation. There wasn't! In a very few private ways, there's this thing. And with these prices it's forbidden. So they will offer what the patient's situation requires, yes, they will be rewarded. Those who will not offer it, no, will not be rewarded. It's very simple. But that's gonna come out after we're done. We'll develop all six hundred fifty of our own. That's the target by next year. From that point on, we'll see what we need, and we'll make the contract with the clinics. Because they don't want to make the contract. They don't want to do it. Because more costs and more charges. It may cost him a thousand or a thousand five hundred or eight hundred, but the patient who privately goes to these ICUs doesn't pay a thousand or a thousand five hundred. He pays two and a half, three, four, four and a half. And you know that. So that's the reality. So we're putting a new class in the system.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u26	But you didn't answer me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u27	I've answered your question. You just don't want to collect the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u28	You're both doctors. There's going to be a discussion at a medical conference, what to do! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by eighteen members from the Rethymno Athens Advanced Toastmasters Club. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the first under number 89-17-10-2017 in the first cycle of the Arcadia MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Papaliou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Selecting directors of the secondary schools of Arcadia" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr. Gavroglou. Also, the fourth question under number 86/16-10-2017 in the first cycle of the Member of the Greek Parliament, Mr. Konstantinos Katsikis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religion, on the subject: "Reduced cost of students in public transport", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Minister, Mr. Gavroglou. In addition, the fifth question under number 88/16-10-2017, the first question of the Greek Open University (EPC) MP of Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The functioning of the Greek Open University (EPC)" will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Minister, Mr.Gavroglou. Furthermore, the third with number 100/17-10-2017 a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the coverage of gaps in teachers in primary education, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Minister, Mr. Gavroglou. Also, the fourth question under number 83/16-10-2017 of the Independent Parliamentary II of Thessaloniki, Mr. Catherine Marcos, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "In the air the distribution of university writings will not be discussed due to the impediment of the relevant Minister, Mr. Gavroglou. Finally, the ninth question, under number 11/2-10-2017, of the second question of the Member of the Lesbos Parliament, Mr Charalambos Athanasiou, to the Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the start of the work of restoring the school buildings of the Municipality of Lesvos that have been damaged by the earthquake of 12 June, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister responsible, Mr.Gavroglou. We will now discuss the sixth question under number 34/6-10-2017 of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Republican Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "No visible development in the creation of a therapeutic Oncology section in Rhodes". Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, Minister, the topical question is exactly where the question of the integration of the Oncology Department is from the point of view of Radiation therapeutics. As we know, oncology, curative oncology, based on chemotherapy, surgery and radiotherapy. Today, with modern machines, many argue that radiotherapy begins to override surgery. So this is something that is in some way independent, because the Radiotherapy Department first has radiotherapists. There's no doctors, there's no pathologists or surgeons. So the question is about the Radiotherapy Department. I say this because there is a great history. For the past three years, four years began the history of the Radiotherapy. At first, it became the premeditation and then it stopped. At first, when the Ministry was taken over by Mr. Kourublis said that the study is beginning, but since then we do not know exactly what has happened, when this study was started, where it is, whether it is and what will finally happen. So, it's going to be the X-ray therapy? Because, as you know, without exaggeration, there are hundreds of people, not to say thousands, who are waiting for a place for radiation therapy throughout Greece, but especially in the remote region of the Aegean islands and the Dodecanese. Do you understand that? It takes another character, takes, I would say, national character. So we need to know exactly where this study is and when the X-ray therapeutic story begins, because it has been done. AtticaN Hospital, which has a very good Radiotherapy department, is affiliated with Rhodes Hospital, which is the largest hospital in the Aegean. And that's rightfully so. Since it has all the departments, it is entitled to acquire it not politically, but scientifically. This thing is a blurred story, which I at least - and I would all say - we do not know. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Today in Syros all the Mayors of the South Aegean Region meet on the subject of the Radiotherapy. The sick, who have made clubs, visit when the MPs, when the Governor, when the Mayor of Rhodes, and seek help on this matter. We doctors are under pressure to find places in public hospitals for a man to do radiotherapy. I am mainly talking about anonymous people and, you will allow me to say, the poor. Because they don't have to come to stay in Athens or in another city, pay anything to get this fate. Because not doing radiotherapy means losing years of life. He doesn't know, on a case-by-case basis, how many years each loses. So it's neither political nor scientific. It's humanitarian. I would therefore like to hear in your reply: 'The study is there, we will lay the foundations. We're counting on this thing to end then." And what else can we do?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u30	Good. The Minister has the floor. See if your desire will be met.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u31	I say this, Mr President, because it is very important. Don't go back to other issues. It's two, three questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u32	We understand that, Mr President. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u33	Mr Kremastine, first of all before I reply, I would like to congratulate you on the attitude you have taken on this subject with this provocation - not to use any worse expression - which was launched by the President of the WTO on the matter of cholera. Because we really need to recognise Caesar's Caesar Caesar, I must congratulate you on the attitude you have taken. I think that evolution has justified both the reaction of the Ministry and what you said. Of course, it does not get the same size of hospitality in all the media, which ran that day to reproduce this shit, the provocation, the challenge of panic in the population. With regard to this issue, Mr Kremastine, to put things in place, until September 2016 in Rhodes, thirty-six patients were treated with oncological problems by two fellow haematologists. This was until September 2016. Today, when we have October 2017, with two tumors that exist there, they get chemo of eighty-six patients and they watch about five hundred, based on the evidence they sent me. One is an adjunctive oncologist and the other is from the Army, which comes twice a week. Not to say that some things fall out of the sky. Be careful, in your homeland until September 2016, not only was there no X-ray therapy, but it was not possible, beyond specific haematological incidents, to do chemotherapy. Today they are making two hundred and eighty-six, and even the cost of a medicine for these people - and it is doing well - is EUR 4 million from the Rhodes budget, and that is why the hospital budget has also been strengthened. Secondly, there are two oncologists, curators, chemo therapists, who are in crisis. We are also pushing the rapporteurs to finish - because they have been declared three, four months ago - in order to fully recruit and serve the Chemistry Department so that more patients who need chemotherapy can be able to do so. This is the first step, which is slowly, with trouble, under pressure, we are ending and organizing. Second of all, let's go to chemistry. What we received was a premeditated study, which was paid EUR 40,000, and now is another study under way. Only there is the following problem, Mr Kremastine, and I want you to tell me how to solve it with this gown that we have and with that thing that you have delivered to us. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Because I am not going to declare the positions of radiotherapists if it does not end on the question of how we can build, buy and publish, on the basis of the epidemiological data we will see and others. Do not use all of the patients in the country and other examples. We're talking about the area. And from Rhodes you go to Crete or the other islands. He's got flights. I mean, not everyone comes to Athens. Don't bring the disaster! But, from the point of view of the scientists who have taken it, they have finished the architectural, electromechanical, static studies, they are at the level of the final study and will begin the necessary approvals. Where are they stuck? Listen, to understand the poorness of the Greek state, which we inherited. You're responsible for this! They say they can't take an environmental impact study on the building's building site, because in 2000 he built, he says, there whoever was responsible - you must have been - you built a church and a children's station without building permits in the hospital courtyard. It is illegal and they cannot take environmental impact study on it. Now that Mr Stathakis has passed the bill on the legalisation of public buildings, these can be legalised. So, what are you asking me now? I find it impossible not to know that! So these buildings, the church and the children's station that were illegally built in 2000 in the hospital will be legalized, the final studies will also be made, we will also talk to the South Aegean Region, we will also see the possibilities of the EEE that exists, to plan the construction and installation, and then we will talk about doctors. How do we do it? Take so many radiation therapists and what am I supposed to do with them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u34	Obviously, the Lord's permission would apply to the church! Mr. Kremastein, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, first of all the Minister said about my position on cholera. My position was purely scientific, as it is now scientific. I couldn't say something that tomorrow would prove to be wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u36	I too congratulated you on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u37	In other words, it was not politically backed up for someone. It was just the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u38	It was a good report to you, that is not a matter. Go to the question, Mr. Kremastino!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u39	I'm saying that for another reason. Because I always move with that aim, that is, I cannot yesterday move with that objective and today with a different objective. And today I move with the same logic. First of all, in 2000, I was not a Minister. The hospital became and was delivered in 2000, but I founded it in 1994 and with plans that had neither churches, temples, nor anything. So, because my name was mentioned, I was not Minister in 2000. I was in 1994. I am therefore not concerned with this, nor am I prepared to know what happened with regard to the Oncology, Therapeutics, Chemotherapy, Pathological Department, that is to say those parts that Mr Paulakis said. I say the Radiotherapy Department is a part of the essential treatment of the cancer patient today. That's what I'm saying! Because I accept all this, without knowing it, I have to tell you that in order to become the Rhodes Hospital, half the plot was of the Ministry of Health and the other half was of the Ministry of Education. The same thing happened in Alexandroupolis, and then I was not a Member of Parliament, but a non-parliamentary. I mean, I didn't do any kind of provision. If we let things get out of the way, then the two ministries would still be in a controversy. I then went to the Prime Minister and that's what I suggest you do: tell him: "Here we have this story. It's a border, it's these people, you do what happened then." In other words, it should speed up the process if it is not possible for the Ministry to do so. That's what happened then. I assure you that this was the case and within a week we took the plot and became the hospital. Unfortunately, that's how the public moves. What can we do? I'm not hiding it! However, I would like to say this so that nothing can be considered too far from what I have said. Well, anonymous people can't know them, but surnames we know them. The former judge - and I say this in public because as a doctor I cannot reveal it, but he wrote letters to the newspapers in Rhodes - sent to all the newspapers on this subject, saying that he hospitalized his wife in Athens and that economies had been deposited with the bank. The former coroner! It's a post of what I tell you in all the papers. And I unpublishedly assure you that fellow Members are also calling for family reasons - and they do well to ask for it - for some protection to go to radiotherapy because people, perhaps, cannot reach public hospitals. [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] What do I mean? That is something that needs to be overcome in this respect. In other words, we cannot judge this sector as we judge other public works. That's why I'm giving you the problem. In other words, I am not prepared or not to recognise what has happened again, on the other hand, to say that nothing else can be done. It can be done. And I have to tell you that the first time the former mayor of Rhodes had made a premeditated study to save the money - as is commonly called - and the 'Democritus' Foundation rejected it. The former, again, mayor of Rhodes is now doing this study, but man has been trying for two years. I don't ask that. I say mobilize the Ministry, call them all over and tell them: "Don't you guys, when is it? In a year? Two years? In five years' time? That is the question, which is an agonizing and specific issue. So I'd be glad to hear you say that. Otherwise, tell me what's going to happen. Because today are the mayors, there, in Syros, they will then come to your offices to tell you the same things I now tell you. They won't tell you anything different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u40	Good. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Kremastino, I have nothing to say to you more than my first speech. This study will end. To end, the environmental impact study is required. You know very well how to do it. If Stathakis hadn't passed the law, it wouldn't have gone ahead, it couldn't have been legalized. By not being legalized, it couldn't be done. Secondly, after this is finished and approvals are received, we need to find funding from either the regional NSRF or the Public Investment Plan of own resources. Then we will have the programming of what is to come and then we will talk about a call for positions. Otherwise, it can't be done. That's what I spoke about before...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u42	I don't talk... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u43	Yeah, or we can't. Because when we received a situation where only thirty-six sick people were serving, and there were two colleagues in bloodologists, I think it is a very important step forward that three hundred, almost three hundred, people are doing chemo in Rhodes and they are not moving and they are not paying for money on top, etc. Now if I start to say my letters about what has happened and how it was undisturbed and in the period 2012-2014, we will never end. That is what I had to say, and I think I was clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u44	And that's what we're finishing the question. At this point I would like to inform the House that the Member Mrs Theodora (Dora) Bakoyannis is calling for a foreign leave for 23 October in order to speak at an event. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u45	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Parliament also requested permission from a short-day absence abroad from 23 October to 25 October 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u46	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We are now continuing with the seventh under the number 25/3-10-2017 topical question of the second question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, concerning the chronic lack of medical staff at the pediatric surgery clinic of the University General Hospital of Heraklion (PAGNI). Here, Mr. Synthraki, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the Child Surgery Clinic at Heraklion University Hospital is a clinic with a very important offer. It covers two regions, Crete and the southern Aegean, and on-site 30 days a month. Since 1990, it has covered thousands of children and has been carrying out about three hundred and sixty surgery a year. However, the understood of the clinic, especially in medical staff, is a constant problem. Until first he was responsible for only three qualified permanent pediatric surgeons and two auxiliary doctors, while the head of the clinic is a professor of surgery, not a child surgeon, appointed by the School of Medicine as a member of the PPC, has therefore been entrusted with other tasks. Of the two auxiliary doctors one was hired as curator II at the Children’s Clinic of Chania and is obliged to be there, apparently because there are needs to be met, while the second until the first was on sick leave due to pregnancy. The only news is that a position of curator II was declared in September, which is positive. They also contributed, in our view, to the pressure from the employees of the clinic, the union and, of course, the JRC with its contributions. And with this, the data are not completely confronted with the problem. The problems remain in the functioning of the clinical system at risk that the entire month's on-calls cannot be covered and, of course, the necessary procedures will not be carried out. The weakening of the department with qualified doctors and the absence of qualified pediatric surgeons leads to a direct risk of the abolition or merging of the clinical under general surgery with consequences unfavourable to children throughout Crete. I therefore ask you, Minister: First, what measures will you take to fully function the PANGNE Paediatric Clinic, directly managing it with the necessary permanent medical and other personnel, with appropriate infrastructure and equipment, so as to meet the increased needs of children as well as the safe guarding of the clinical on a daily basis? Secondly, what measures will you take to set up a Children's Clinic and the Hospital of Chania, since there is a need to create under the relevant conditions in Heraklion, which I mentioned earlier? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u48	Thank you. Before I give you the floor, Minister, let me make the following statement: The second, number 93/17-10-2017, timely question of the first cycle of MP Carditsa, New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Tsiaras, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The institutional stumbling of the Minister of National Defence", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister. Also, the third with number 75/12-10-2017 a top question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “The economic losses from the night’s end”, will not be discussed due to the absence of Ms. Papanatsiou, which is at the Regional Development Conference in Epirus. The second question, under number 77/13-10-2017, of the second question of the Members of Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Ioannis Koutsoukos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Reintegration of public debtors into the regulation of the hundreds of instalments', will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister. Also, the first under number 94/17-10-2017 topical question by MP Phytidis of New Democracy, Christos Stagiras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Financing actions from criminal actions against the Greek government and making available for social purposes", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Juliarakis. Finally, the eighth question under number 13/2-10-2017 of MP I of the Thessaloniki Association, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Payment of Law 128/1975", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister, Mr. Tsakalotos. Here, Mr Minister, you have the floor to answer Mr Syntagakis' question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u49	Mr Colleagues, I thought you would have withdrawn the question from last week, because the matter has been resolved. Now, listen to me, so we can put things in place. The child-surgery clinic, the only one in Heraklion, was working. He had three qualified doctors and two assistants. In a period of time, the following thing happened: one of my fellow assistants to get sick leave due to pregnancy and the other colleague to take the place of curator II at the clinic that opened and is already operating from August 16th in Chania. There are two doctors, they have four beds, they operate twice a week and they do three to five surgery a week, from what I'm being informed. You should know that the operation started in Chania. Secondly, there was no vacant organic position else in the body and we converted, with regular procedures, a post of doctor of public health at PAGNE into a fourth post of pediatric surgery. A notice has been issued at the moment and on 25 October the time limit for lodging the cards expires. They've got clear instructions to run it to be done. So I think that the four specialists and the adjunct - the colleague who had the sickle - are no longer insecure for a clinic facing the volume of the incidents, which is being faced by the Children's Surgery Clinic of Heraklion and by the relief it will offer for its activity and the operation of a corresponding section in the surgical field in Chania. In addition, during the period when there was the problem with the two auxiliarys, who took the stand and had to leave, and the other had the sick leave, we also made an effort to take immediate measures, that is to say, by means of a service document and a higher fee and no one was found. So now one of my colleagues has returned and the fourth position has been declared permanent. I think that this is the way to resolve it. Also, it continues and will develop its function further, and the Children's Clinic in Chania. Here, of course, I should like to say another word. You know we have a situation down there with an attack by media and also by various other subtlety topicalisms, where because he delayed going to Heraklion's subsidiary doctor, who had taken a permanent place in Chania - because he had to take out August's newspapers - there was a philology in Chania that we would close the Children's Clinic of Chania before he opened up, and would be absorbed in Heraklion. I will tell you for the last time or rather once again - and not last, because I will have to say it again - we only open, we do not close. Others closed. We're opening. And we've opened a lot lately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs is tabling its report on the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence "Confidentiality Regulations on careers and development of officials and financial care and accounting of the Armed Forces, on the establishment of a Joint College of Financial Inspectors and other provisions". Also, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty-four members of the Students' Association of the University of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u51	Minister, we did not withdraw the timeline because we think it is timely and you did not answer the questions I raised in full. And, even before you took the floor, I told you that it was a good thing that there was a statement of position, as well as that a woman was absent from pregnancy at this time. The question, of course, was tabled before she returned to work, but it was not all solved. Second, away from us, localism. Besides, the question raises the question of how to develop an independent clinic in Chania, as in Heraklion. Now, please return me to raise a few points about what I have put into my prototype and which are also the demands of doctors and of the union. First, is the request for a separate clinical pediatric surgery fair? I think it is. Today, child surgery is a unit of general surgery, with a director who is essentially responsible - and according to the law governing university hospitals - it has administrative responsibility. In reality, therefore, child surgery does not exist as a separate unit. What prevents the separation of general surgery and pediatric surgery objects and therefore the imprinting of this distinction in organograms, the separation of clinical trials? The distinction of pediatric surgery from general surgery is, in the JRC's view, both scientific and practical, correct and necessary. Other objects of one another, other objects of the other. If you accept this, it means that you need to proceed with the conversion of pediatric surgery into a separate clinic with a university director, specializing in pediatric surgery and not in general surgery as it is today. If it is about who has the responsibility to define it - because it is a university hospital - that is, if it is the Minister of Health or the Minister of Education - because they are heard as excuses - we say that this is a false felony. If there is a political will, that goes beyond it. You also said, Minister, that you intend to open a new post. Since 2008 or 2009, which was passed by the last professor - director, the position has been bored. These changes must also be reflected in changes in the hospital body. By the end of December, as you have already said, you will bring the new hospital agencies. We ask the following questions: firstly, if your commitment to new organograms still applies until the end of December and, secondly, whether it is in the Government's intentions that the framework of the new agencies should reflect the request for a separate clinical pediatric surgery. If you wish, and I would like to ask whether you are prepared to meet many such requests, or to consider various new data that are available. An example is the "immaterial" section in the university hospital, which from two chambers has four more. He's got guest houses, he's got a kindergarten, etc. Will you take all this into account? I say this because the previous ones had unilaterally attempted to change the organograms without asking anyone and without taking into account anything. So I ask, what purpose do you have in this regard? If you do not go along with such requests, then it actually leads to the merging of clinical trials. Also, the self-sufficiency of the pediatric surgery of other clinics and their effective operation is understood to be accompanied by an increase in state funding, while upgrading staff with the necessary permanent staff and equipment in both Heraklion and Chania, which is missing. And I say 'permanent', because we are not dealing with issues with temporary and emblematic solutions. I'm telling you this because there was an attempt to hire someone on a block. No one can deny that. He went out to "DENMARK" etc. Tunnels and fixed-term contracts, ancillary ones, do not solve the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u52	Good. Then put a question mark on it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u53	The main question, which we will not get tired of, is as follows: When will the necessary recruitment of permanent doctors, nurses and other staff, with full work, wages and insurance rights, which are the main incentives for a new doctor to accept a position where needs exist and to do his duty with dignity? And this, if you want them to open hospitals and not close. Because when there is no staff, then, as you know, they close, as is happening today and as has happened before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u55	When we start to build the old state, Mr. Synthraki, then we will only have permanent posts, only permanent doctors, then the "Peteries" and the "Meals" will run from the General Accounting Office of the State and the hospitals will flood!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u56	There won't be any diseases then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u57	But listen to me now, seriously. Firstly, 10m euros have increased the budget of the university hospital and around 4-5m euros of the Hospital of Chania and respectively of the rest of Crete. The increase has been given. They did not balance the hospitals because we were throwing them off the road, but because we made a serious increase of about EUR 300 million on the market line. There is also a very large amount of support from both the EEA and the state budget. Secondly, this issue you raise in relation to universities is not answered in the context of a question here. The Ministry - soon will also be made public - will be given the facilities of hospital organizations, which will be voted on by December and which will come to a subsequent bill. There is a differentiation in relation to university hospitals, which play a double role. The spatial dispositions of specific universities in some hospitals in the country I know them and, of course, they will be resolved. On the other hand, there is a contrasting trend to make in university hospitals double clinics, one of the RIS, a university, to cover local ambitions. It can't be done everywhere now. Don't go crazy! A clinical pediatric surgery, with five specialist doctors, can clearly meet the needs. Don't go crazy now! Don't "t" them, let's say what we say. The question of whether this will be part of a general university clinic that has all the departments - there are some sections in Heraklion that are not elsewhere - will probably not be like this in the future. We're changing. There's a lot of bumps. And at the University Hospital of Alexandroupolis there are also at the University of Ioannina there are also in Crete. However, with the new framework of organisations they will be given a solution. From that point on, we want the needs to be met. That is why we have set two years and we will continue to do so. I think you understand that, too. One last word. The block came out as a direct measure, to the extent that it was not returned by my assistant, so that there could be a fourth one immediately so that it could be on-call. It wasn't found, my colleague returned, another position was declared. I think the problem has begun.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u58	Thank you. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-10-23-S1-commons.u59	With the consent of the House at 18.54 the sitting for Wednesday, 25 October 2017, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work, on the agenda which has been distributed.
