ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Four topical questions will be discussed. Seventeen will not be discussed, as the Secretary-General of the Government informs us, Mr Kalogerou. They will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the relevant ministers and will be redefined for discussion the following topical questions: The second question under number 442/6-2-2017 of the first cycle of the MP Iraklios of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the further gradual removal of capital controls, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotou. The ninth under number 387/24-1-2017 a topical question for the second question of the Athens MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarous to the Minister of Finance, on the legislative arrangement for extending approved expenses beyond the hospitals will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Euklidis Tsakalotos. Cause: workload. The third, with number 458/7-2-2017, top-stage question by the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Ministers for Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the works contracts in hospitals and the circumvention of the right to maternity, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. Similarly, we will not discuss the fifth under number 413/30-1-2017 a topical question for the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, George Stylios, to the Minister of Health, concerning the non-payment of cleanliness staff from the General Hospital of Artas due to the obstruction of Mr. Paul Paul Paulakis. The eleventh question under number 337/13-1-2017 will not be discussed in the top tenth cycle of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Dimitrios Kremastinos to the Minister of Health regarding the scope of the application of telemedicine in Greece. We will not discuss the thirteenth third with number 389/24-1-2017 a topical question by MP Aetolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Health regarding the payment of workers clearers to the services of the General Hospital of Arta. We will not discuss the fourteenth with number 408/30-1-2017 a topical question for the Attica MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Health on the serious problems of families and workers in special education services. We will not discuss the fifteenth under number 402/27-1-2017 a topical question for the second cycle of the Member of the European Parliament, Mr Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Health, on the reduction of the cost of diagnostic tests for breast cancer. We will not discuss the sixteenth question under number 313/5-1-2017 on the risk that children and adolescents of special education will be left without treatment. Nor will the question put by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsola, who is no longer timely - to the Minister of Health, concerning the completion and segregation of the Oncology Department of the Rhodes Hospital for the same reason, be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u3	I'll give you the floor then, Mr. Consola. Similarly, there will be no debate with number 89/5-10-2016 question by the Vice-President of the Parliament and a Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health regarding the completion and segregation of the Oncology Department of the Rhodes Hospital. The second question under number 441/6-2-2017 is the second question of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Integration PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the suspension of the insurance law on blocks, until the injustices caused by its distorting application have been removed, will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr. Petropoulos. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. The fourth question under number 404/30-1-2017 of the Parliamentary Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the drafting of a National Plan to support cotton farming, will not be discussed due to an obstacle by the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr. Kokalis. Cause: workload. Similarly, the sixth question will not be discussed under number 399/27-1-2017 in the second question of the Achaea MP of the New Republic, Jasonic Foila, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the delay in the project to extend the Pionea River Canal to Western Achaia. The seventh question, under number 365/20-1-2017, of the second question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Andreas Katsaniotis, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the reopening of transitional sections of the TEI of Western Greece, will not be discussed due to the absence of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr.Gavroglou outside Athens. The eighth Question No 423/31-1-2017, on the abuse of the name "Macedonia" in sports organisations, will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr. Vassiliou. Finally, the first question under number 450/6-2-2017 of the Member of Parliament of the Republic of New Democracy, Georgios Vlachos, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, concerning the proposals - requests by the Municipalities of the Mediterranean with a view to consulting on the renewal of the Athens International Airport Convention "El. Venizelos with the Greek State for the period 2025-2055, will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The Ministry of Finance is the Ministry of Finance. Mr Consola, you have obviously asked the floor for your question. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. I take the floor, despite the fact that the Minister was unable to stand in the debate today, to remind us that on 17-03-2016 we tabled a question on the functioning of the Rhodes Hospital. We asked the Minister if he was aware of the problems and problems arising from the subsistence of the Rhodes hospital and what steps the Minister intends to take to meet these needs. Despite the continuous postponement, the Minister comes after some time in the House and responds. We have tabled a number of reports from operators and from factors representing workers in the hospital and from factors related to the hospital in Rhodes. In conclusion, Mr Paulakis answers - it is in the Minutes of the sitting - that 'all of us are judged, Mr Consola, not by what we say, but by what we are doing. Because we're what we're doing, not what we're talking about. So we will all be judged." I agree with the Minister. It is, however, inconsistency with the government and, in particular, the Ministry of Health, that he does not come here to discuss matters in Parliament's parliamentary procedure. I, too, disagree with you, Mr President. The question we have tabled is extremely timely. And I am talking about the question from 05-10-2016 and it has not yet been answered, Mr President. It is a very important question and it is related to the establishment of the oncology department at the hospital in Rhodes. You know that in the Dodecanese society, there is no hospital in Greece to deal with these incidents. So it would be an important pillar to stop leaving the islands to the center. We would stop the economic bleeding of patients and relatives to come here for therapy. And let me conclude by saying what Mr Paulakis said to that question. In the first question about the hospital in Rhodes he said: “About the two specific subjects you said, Mr. Consola, about the department separations, look at them. I don't think the subject of haemodynamics is that intense. I mean, it's five doctors who serve there. I think, however, that the subject of the volume section could be seen. We will also consult with the new commander in this respect. We have scheduled for Rhodes twelve new permanent recruitment posts for doctors from the sixty-sixty permanent doctors. I'm not talking about subsidiary doctors, I'm talking about permanent doctors. I'm sure some people will go to the TLPs, which we know the problem. From there on, there's going to be some appreciation. I have no objections. There is no oncology section in the eastern Aegean region. You do have a lot of tourism in the summer."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u5	Please, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u6	"Twenty and triple the island's population and we will really do everything possible to support this situation and the prospect." I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to make your own contribution and assistance so that Mr Paulakis can come here and testify to what he intends to do, because the problems of the hospital in Rhodes are greater and more than we have tabled the question. And there's an administration at the hospital in Rhodes, which doesn't want to see the truth and the problems. The aim is to improve the quality of life of patients, the quality of life of residents and to have a sense of security and address all the issues of the southern Aegean as a whole. That is why I would like to say that we are going to put the question back. And I would ask Mr Polakis to come here - and not to delay going to six months - in the next period, to address this very big, important problem for the islands of Rhodes and the Dodecanese. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u7	Mr Consola, this question was tabled as a written question. He didn't answer. And, as you know, after a month it becomes automatically up-to-date. I have therefore commented that it is not timely because it has been tabled as a written question. The month has passed, it has not been answered, and it has become timely. Of course, what you have said will be transferred to the Conference of Presidents and to the Secretary-General of the Government, because that is what you are asking me to do right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u8	But six months later, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u9	I will not comment on it from the President's position, you understand. But I'll do what I think is right. We move to the third with number 459/7-2-2017 a top-level question from the Member of the Attica Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Giokas to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the serious problems of the Foundation "PAMMACARISTOS" due to state sub-financing. The Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Fotio, will respond. Mr Ioannis Giokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, you are aware of this. The question concerns the serious operational problems faced by the "PAMMAKARIOS" Foundation in Nea Makri, which currently provides hundreds of thirty children with heavy autism and twenty-four girls from abundant families who are hosted at the institution's boarding school. According to the management of the institution, sub-funding on the part of the State has led to serious economic deadlocks, which are now threatening the institution's very existence and function, with obvious consequences for children and their families. In particular, according to the administration, accumulated debts to suppliers, workers, insurance funds are about EUR 1.2 million. Only the debt in PPC amounts to 150,000 euros. There is a problem with workers working in the foundation in difficult conditions, both in the nature of work and in the fact that they remain unpaid for more than ten months and some have stopped working. The government and the relevant Ministry, despite the fact that there was a commitment in the previous period that exceptional financial aid will be granted to the "PAMMAKARIOS Foundation" of EUR 350,000, to the authorities in Genares, gave only EUR 48,000, while at the same time the same policy as the previous governments continues, is not attributed to the institution a third of the state expenditure, which - notable - has been reduced by 70% in recent years and does not apply to the contractual obligation to cover expenditure for the hospitality of the twenty-four girls in the boardyard. These problems are very serious. These are problems which, as I have said before, threaten the functioning of the institution and the government must address them immediately. Because we are talking about children in need, about families that you really know - they go through a daily 'Golgotha'. The JRC's position is that these problems, these needs must be addressed through purely public structures, with the sole responsibility and financing of the state. That must be the claim. However, until this is done, these institutions must operate sufficiently. That is why we are asking: What measures will the government take to ensure that the public budget is financed to the "PUMPAMAKARIOS" Foundation, that workers, suppliers and that the institution's immediate, urgent operating expenses are met?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u12	Mr Gioka, thank you for the question today, because I would like to say again what I have been saying very recently - and I said half an hour ago to the Committee on Social Affairs in the bill to come to the House on Thursday - that the welfare state was built mainly in Greece from the civil service until today, but also from the beginning, since 1900, on the basis of charity. In other words, legal persons of different forms of private law, NGOs, ASE, etc. All forms, associations of charities, etc., were founded in Greece and were given the opportunity to exercise social protection, welfare. "MARAMARITY" is one of them. I am not saying that anything else has happened. Founded in 1953, as you know. Our intention is to settle this scenery. That is why we have also brought the specific article of the law, which we have just discussed in committee, according to which, firstly, all these institutions with the same rules must be registered in a national register. Finally, we must also know how many people work and how many are benefiting and how many money they have from bequests and what their property is and what the rules they apply and so on. I have to say here that your party is saying 'present' in this. So I say that we will make this registration and we will see from there, and then with what rules all these institutions will operate for the public benefit, under public benefit rules. Now, especially for "BAMMACARITOS", so that you do not think that I am escaping, in June 2016, in reply to a question from Mr Voridis, I said: "We will ensure, first, the functioning of "BAMMACARITY". Then, Mr. Gioka, there was no board of directors, Mr. Psinakis didn't have who to appoint, I couldn't afford it. I ensured every day that the electricity, water, etc. is not cut off. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Give me some time, Mr President, because it is important. And then I said that 'all we gave them last year' - please read what I said - 'we will be able to give them this year'. What did we give last year? We had given 266.290 euros. We have given the same thing this year, namely EUR 241 175, and it is pending to pay the fifteen beds, for which we are waiting, because there is still no report to ask us to pay these beds. You need to know this is a state. If specific things are not requested - and we have repeatedly disturbed both the Region and the foundation for this report - we cannot pay the beds. I have paper from our services, from January 17, which has been sent to "BAMMACARITOS" and says about "these conventional beds, accompanied by a restoration of the Contracting Institution for the period from 11-11-2016 to 31-12-2016" etc., because earlier there is no report for these beds to be paid. Let's say a few things about the workers. As you know, we immediately sent the APRC. I have a detailed report from the EIC today. Our workers are very interested. Of course, we are interested in the children who are in these institutions to continue to be in these institutions and until that time comes, when all the institutions will be public, in receiving these services properly and in paying workers. For the S.E.L.D. now. What's happened? Because the relevant division of labour relations... [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] May I continue in my dentistry, Mr. President? What do I do, so I don't abuse time?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u13	The rest in your dentistry, Minister. Mr. Giokas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u14	Madam Minister, first of all, you referred to the issue of the bill, in which the Communist Party of Greece does vote'residents'. And you know why the Communist Party of Greece is voting for 'partisans'. It does not vote 'at present' because it does not want registration to take place. What we are putting forward is that this registration of NGOs, the various institutions, etc. In order for them to be exploited to meet needs that should normally be covered by the State. And forgive me, your policy to date in a number of areas - and in the refugee sector - has shown that a number of aspects that should be guaranteed by the state with its own structures - services have been given to non-governmental organisations. One thing is that. The second question is this: Does the lack of funding for the "PAMMAKARIOS" Foundation have anything to do with the fact that there was no record? I beg your pardon, can the "PAMMAKARIOS" Foundation be treated as any non-governmental organisation by those who have grown up like mushrooms? It is a well-known institution, which has been operating for years and for which there is a commitment - if I am not mistaken, I think I am not mistaken - that 1/3 of its operating costs will be covered by the state plus the boarding school. And the point is that these have not been attributed. Also, my information says - disprove me, if I am mistaken - that the authorities were granted EUR 48 000 and not EUR 200,000, as you say. They may be given the next period, but they have not yet been given.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u15	They had already been given in the first half of the year. Anyway, I'm going to answer your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u16	I'm talking about the new year. However, you cannot put the question of registration forward so that a number of structures are not supported. And we say it again: of course, the care of children, who need to, must be done exclusively by public structures. But neither do we see the government moving in one direction, in other words creating public structures, particularly in special education. Where is he? In these foundations there were three thousand children, and now they are down to a thousand five hundred. Also, a series of families who were "loaded" to their backs the support of their children, because of the financial difficulties they face, cannot do that either. And what's the result? The result is such institutions - I am not saying about the "PAMMAKARIOS" institution - or to resort to food-insurance - and you know it very well that there are institutions asking for food - or, in fact, dominating this place - and in the next period, it will become even more intense - by various traders in fact. So, of course, the question is public structures. But tell us what the government is doing to create public structures? Until this is done - which we do not see - these institutions must work, so that the children, who go there, are supported by their families, as of course by the workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u17	Yes, sir. Madam Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u18	Mr Gioka, you want within twenty-three months this government to achieve a thousand and fifty such institutions. That's not NGO. These are institutions like "MAMAKARITO". And it's a thousand five hundred institutions! Such an institution is also the "Athens Farm". Have you seen what happens to the "Athens Farm" these days? Have you heard that he owes 30 million euros? Do you know that a hundred elderly people are fed by us, because the "Athens Farm" with huge property of eight hundred, can't feed them? What exactly are you telling me? Right now, we have to exalt this landscape. You say to me: 'Get money without any control, because that's the way it should be.'
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u19	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u20	That's what you're telling me right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u21	That's how you interpret it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u22	I say that I do not want to close any of these foundations and much more 'PAMMACARITY'. And everyone knows from the very first moment what I did for "MAMMARATTO". In the first and second half of 2016, it was money for 2016. Could have been paid in 2017 for 48,000, but it was 2016. They shall not apply to 2017. This money has to be understood that it is about the EUR 1,600 000 that we gave the Attica region for all the institutions. So if you think about the percentage of money that we gave to "BAMMACARITOS", you will understand that it is very important. That's the one. Now, our employees are even more interested - not by the children, our children are interested - in being able to offer their services to the children. So when the APRD went, it found complaints that twenty - one worker was unpaid. Of these, the seventeen employees withdrew their complaint as they agreed with the above institution. Four applicants were left in the APR. The first was paid the 2016 licence allowance, the 2016 Easter gift, as well as the license. A new labour difference was made for the latter, and the worker in question agreed to a gradual payment of the amounts due. The two other applicants did not agree, they did not accept the Foundation's proposal and were asked to make a reference to them in order to make the other actions from the EIA. To date, workers have not submitted the responsible statements requested. Finally, on 7-2-2017 the Work Relations Department of the SEA in the spring region carried out an on-the-spot check. It was found in the on-the-spot audit that forty-five employees for the period from August 2015 to 2016 they have their accrued earnings. A period of five days has therefore been given for the institution to produce written explanations to the local authority. In addition, it was requested within the deadline to provide detailed receipts for the period from July 2016 to January 2017, as the head of the financial department of the institution stated that the remuneration paid for this period to the staff employed had been paid to the staff employed. It therefore awaits the written explanations of the APRC to take legal action. Only one day we don't want to leave the workers unpaid, Mr. Gioka. We help in every way. In addition, we have tabled an amendment giving the Region of Attica a right, but also in all regions, to pay an additional 20% - because they told us that they had money - to the bodies we financed. We expect the Attica Region to give additional money to "BAMMACARITO" because it has promised us. We are trying from everywhere to collect whatever euro we can to help these institutions. However, the euphoria of prosperity has now passed, or we will find a new framework for the operation of everything, which will be of a character - and I repeat - public benefit or will actually continue this dispute. I told you that the foundations are too much, Mr Gioka, and I wish I had all that money to give. However, we also need to assess structures and full knowledge of what is happening so that all these things can come to the public or public administration. That's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u23	These foundations were built because there were no structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u24	If you want to continue, we can talk outside. If you want to talk to me here, I have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u25	You're welcome. Madam Minister, the debate is over, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u26	I'm not gonna load what's happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u27	We move to the first with number 449/6-2-2017 a top-level question for the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Mr. Panagiotis Mitarakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport concerning the extension of the airport of Chios. The question will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr. Spirtzis. Please, Mr. Mitarakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for doing your job properly. When only four of the twenty-one questions are answered, being here to answer is an exception.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u29	I'm sorry, Mr. Mitaraki, the Ministry. You mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u30	No, I'm talking about total. Of the twenty-one questions which were to be debated today, only four will be answered. Good thing you're here to answer. Also, almost two years ago, we were here again and we discussed again in this Chamber the question of extending the corridor and renovating the facilities of Chios airport. Since then, unfortunately, after two years, little has changed. The expansion of the airport is necessary on an island that is trying to develop its tourist product, especially at a time when due to immigration there is a great decline in the arrival of foreign tourists. For example, last year we had a 69% reduction in charter flights to Chios. This year, it's possible we don't have a single charter flight to Chios. I understand that thirty-five years we've been talking about this airport. Of course, responsibilities are time-consuming. But let's see now: In December 2014, the previous government handed over to the Civil Aviation Service the necessary area for extending the runway and prepared the proclamation of the project to enclosure the cliar way to expand the runway. Two years later, little has happened. Partially, the work of fence has begun and no solution has been found to the issue of moving the Christos Avenue. Although I have asked you this since 23 September, it has still not been answered. No expropriations have been completed in the southern part of the airport. I have made a reference to you on 30 January and I am waiting for your reply. On 16 January, the Civil Aviation Service tabled an information note setting out the projects required for the extension and modernisation of the airport, i.e. the corridor, the airport, the field of manoeuvre and the coastal road. So I would like to ask you this today: do you accept the projects proposed by the Civil Protection Agency? How do you put it? Mostly, is funding planned for these projects? What's the timeline? When are they going to be? I would remind you that it is important to tell us clearly what the position of the Ministry is on the question of airport. Because when you had come to Chios in September 2015, you said: "The argument that connects the expansion of the runway to the number of flights on the island is expressed only by Mr. Metarakis". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u31	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let me say that we are trying to be as consistent as possible to answer the questions. I think we're doing it at the Ministry. I would like to make a request to the Bureau: it would be a good thing, because it is not easy to reply twice a week to Members' questions, and because we want to be consistent, to be programmed and to come back once a week.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u33	I'm sorry to interrupt you. And I personally have made this proposal at the Conference of Presidents, but now, with the change in the Rules of Procedure of the House, I think that will be anticipated, because there is a problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u34	That's right. He's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u35	Yeah, he's right. I have proposed that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u36	My dear fellow Member, a year and a half ago, I had answered you again about Chios airport in a timely time you had done. It is obvious - you said it yourself - that about forty years, since the Migration to date, the country and the island are discussing the work of the airport, the modernisation and upgrading of the airport. That was the logic of moving the political system of the country until recently, that is to say, a way that does not fit either in local societies or in our country, to have announcements alone, no plans and no progress. Let me remind you of the historic fact that the study on the development and improvement of airport infrastructure was carried out by the PSC in 1985. This study was never carried out because there was no environmental impact study and the local society disagreed. The study was updated in 1996. The environment was drafted in 1998 and in relation to the master plan - it is really a laughter - the PSC drafted a new airport development plan and approved the ICM in 2003. Terms were amended in 2012, nine years later and were remodeled in 2016, i.e. last year. I would also like to say to you, in relation to what you have tabled in the timely question, that the previous government had gone ahead and completed the necessary expropriations, that the previous government had not gone ahead and completed the necessary expropriations. It also had a matter for the previous government and in general the previous governments with regard to expropriations. They never completed them on any project, whether they were roads, airports, or other projects. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Mr President, I need a minute to finish. What's the truth? The truth is that while some EUR 165 million had been decided first, in 2011 by decision of the Aegean Court of Appeal - another decision - the amount was EUR 70 million, and we decided to continue to expropriate only for the northern part of the declared expropriation, which since the seventy-four thousand forty-four square meters, went to the twenty-seven thousand forty-four square meters. Of course, the delivery process of the expropriated land was completed in 2015. Now what has happened in this period: First of all, the premeditated study of the expansion of Chios airport by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has begun. The overall project will be prepared on 30 April 2017, in the first half of 2017. The fence you asked will be completed. It's executed properly. It should have been completed on 2 February, but it was contractually extended until 7 March, because we had the known unforeseen weather conditions. Of course, for the complete completion of the project, the necessary authorisation for traffic regulations is required for other competent local authorities - municipality, police - and transport and plumbing works in the extension of the Christos road to Rodokanakis Street. The municipality has already commissioned and prepared a study, as far as I know, on these projects, but has not completed it and is in search of these appropriations. The study on the extension and restructuring of the existing airport is also being prepared. Also, the study by the PSC on the manoeuvre field has been completed, which is a budget of about 3m euros and a geotechnical study has been completed. What happens with funding: we have found funding. We've got it all set up at the 2014-2020 EMCDDA. But we are not going to start this project - and I want to be very honest, Mr Mitsarakis, the reasoning is that I am going to develop it in my second speech - if there is no prerequisite that we have put as a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u37	Which is?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u38	Which is: The previous government has taken care of many things and of many of the country's commitments not to communicate them to the Greek people and to Parliament. A year and a half ago, we didn't know. Now we've heard. What this will say: This will say that the Samara government over the Vice-President Vangelis Venizelos had granted TEAD and the other airports, except for the fourteen airports that are in the two competitions and took over by the ‘FRAPORT’ consortium. We are not at all, but at all, willing to do work at airports that are going to be committed and advanced, to privatise, as you did at Thessaloniki airport, Chania airport and Skiathos airport, if I remember well. Therefore, the necessary consultation has taken place with the GOI. The RIAD must - and I think it has been completed - study whether these airports are viable or not, that is, what you have defined. We are therefore waiting for these airports to go to the new superstition in order not to be privatisation and to proceed to the modernisation and expansion projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u40	Minister, from your protology, I understand that as long as we have a SYRIZA government, we will not have a new airport in Chios. I think you said it quite clearly at the end. I would remind you that the previous government's forecast was that airports that would not privatise - those that were not included in the fourteen regional airports - would operate under public control. In any case, the extension and modernisation of an airport is about the viability of Chios's tourism product and I do not know whether you have years to wait until the superstition to acquire an administration and decide how it will work. The crucial thing is to move these works forward. And if the superstition decides somehow to privatise Chios airport, I imagine that the investment that the Greek State will make will not be lost. On the contrary, it will be reflected in the price to be obtained. Turns out the fence is not over, because in order to make the fence, it is necessary - and you said when you came to Chios that the Ministry would anticipate it - the move of Christos to Aeroporto Rhodokakis. The fence cannot be closed, it seems that the old road has been abolished for several months. The most important thing, however, is that this is where there does not appear to be a timetable until 2020 for the project to begin. So we have an island in the north Aegean, which is affected by the migratory crisis, and it sees no more charter flights, because unfortunately, airbus aircraft, filled with passengers, fuel and luggage cannot land on the existing airway. They are therefore forced to stop supplying other islands and thus to do so uncompetitively. At the same time, the Government failed, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to extend for another year the pilot programme for Schengen visas for the islands of the northern Aegean, at least to tourism from the neighbour. So a dead end arises. Recently, Mr. Kourublis and Mrs. Koundoura called on island operators to find ideas of the tourist product. But if there is no airport on an outlying island, on an island of the border, which can respond to modern trends in tourism, it is assumed that all these conversations are held for the sight. The Civil Aviation Service in its plan talks about very specific things. It describes the projects needed to extend and modernise the airport. The air station is too small and too old. Corridor and expropriation were delivered - I remind you - in December 2014. All administrative miscarriages took place and the keys were delivered - just to say it - to the Civil Aviation Service in December 2014. Two years later, neither the minor work of fence nor in the field of manoeuvre has been closed, on the coastal road there has been no progress. Finally, I believe what I told you before, that SYRIZA doesn't think Chios needs an airport. Fortunately, this will change soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u41	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Metarakis for his confirmation of the policy of the New Democracy and of what he proposes in the country. What does Mr Metarakis and New Democracy say? Make the airports, drop millions there and let the landscape be blurred in case these airports want New Democracy - as it did when it was government - or lenders are privatized. Mr. Metarakis, the Greek people's money isn't assimilating. You have given, not the fourteen airports at the TEAD for privatisation, but all the airports in the country. But we are not going to repeat the mistakes made by the previous government. There is no way we can do modernisation works at airports if they are to be privatised. It is not, with the consultation that has taken place, fortunately and we expect this to be confirmed, following the study that has been carried out at the TDID and which has prepared the TIPD, to go to the supranational, to be used and to move on. We are not going to do what you have done, to do two major projects, and to commit funds from the European Union for public property, which, even in the words, is typically to be privatised. Therefore, as you well said, and Chios needs an airport and the rest of the country needs an airport. Airports need to be modernised. You haven't done it for so many years. For someone you did not do it with a view to deceiving both the Civil Aviation Service and the airports and giving them to private individuals. We stopped this cathode in two ways. One is to negotiate hard, so that the Civil Aviation Service is not privatised or part of it, as many people wanted, which is neoliberal. The second is, by upgrading and modernising public airports or by operating them, but with a rationale, if you like, in mind. You delivered fourteen profitable airports and kept what's not profitable. And neoliberal to be, you cannot accept your thinking, especially when you "rich" it and with three major modernization projects of the three large airports that the country has. And in this example, we will not follow you. We did what we had to do to operate the airport as we should, we design, we committed money - and I submit it - for the period 2014-2020, but that does not mean, under any circumstances, that these projects will proceed if the rest of the airports that you have delivered are not released from the HIAD. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-two students and two teachers from the Second-Term Opportunities School. The House welcomes you. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Furthermore, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Home Affairs, Economy and Development, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Foreign Affairs, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Finance, Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Infrastructure and Transport, Migration Policy, Shipping and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food and Statement, Deputy Ministers for Home Affairs, Economy and Development, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic and Energy, as well as the Secretarys of State for Foreign Affairs and Finance, tabled a draft law on 10-2-2017: ‘Supplementary measures for the implementation of the Rules of Procedure (EU, EURATOM) 1141/2014 on European political parties and institutions, measures to speed up the government task of Ministry of Home Affairs and other provisions’. It shall be referred to the Co-legislative Standing Committees. In addition, MP Constantine Koukodimos, a member of the New Republic of Pierre, seeks permission from a short-day absence abroad, for personal reasons, from Sunday 19 February 2017 until Tuesday 21 February 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u44	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We are now moving to the tenth under number 403/30-1-2017, a topical question for the second cycle of the Achaias MEP of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Papatheodorou, Minister for National Defence, on the dismantling of European funding - inappropriate feeding of refugees. The Deputy Minister of National Defence, Mr. Vitsas, will answer. Mr. Papatheodorou has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Since we are being attended by schoolchildren today, let us explain that Parliament's office permits are not due to Members, due to the day of parliamentary scrutiny, but to the failure of the ministers to answer their questions. That is why I would like to thank the Minister who is here, because the refugee issue has been topical, Mr Minister. Refugees have been feeding in the Host Centers for some time now, with scandals or complaints about scandals. Last, bodies active in the Hosty Centres have denounced that not only the feeding is inappropriate, but every day, due to this inappropriateness, thousands of portions of food are being disposed of because it is considered that they cannot be consumed by refugees. At the same time, however, in its most recent report ECHO, the European Commission, records this generalised discontent, as it says, on the feeding of refugees. At the same time, it recognises that the Greek Army is making great efforts to provide food for refugees, but that the system of catering which has been selected for too long has led to complaints in committee - does not mention them as complaints, but as reports - for their general inappropriateness and for the discontent of the beneficiaries. The committee also says that, on 1 January, the system will be changed and instructs Greece to change the system and to find alternative ways through consultation with the Greek Government. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The question is that these catering companies, Minister, are contractors to these competitions and implement their contracts. Do you have any such complaints? Has it been checked by the Ministry? And until when these contracts, which are short-term, will apply, those of the Hellenic Army with these companies, but here there are complaints not only by institutions, but also by those who have visited the hosting centres. The rest will be developed in my dentistry, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I consider the question to be a good one. So I have to make some corrections in the sense that you refer to a text of proposals to improve the situation in Greece and Italy, which ECHO gives, taking into account what has been done in 2016. As you know, the Armed Forces, the Greek Army and the three staff, took over a series of commitments to manage the refugee and immigration issue - not that it is timely, because it is timely for at least three years - and they have the "good" one would say worldwide. More specifically, the issue of feeding is not just a food issue, but at the same time it is a matter of tranquility within reception areas and hosting centres. Until now, in the general staff, who have been almost all of them - the structure of the High Commissioner for Foreign Affairs and the structure of the Greek, which is from a Danish NGO, have not been officially reported. That is why, in the report itself, there are no formal complaints. However, there is one reality, which is two issues: one issue is that there are some - fortunately not many - cases and, secondly, that there is the fatigue of a family or a person who eats catering all the time. Eating for several months from catering, as you can see, is not the best thing that could happen, not only to the refugee and immigrant, but to us themselves. But all this time we have had all the necessary checks. And on the basis of the documents I will give you in my dentistry - and I will give them to you as well - you will see that these checks are too frequent, they are on various levels and they have brought, from results to fines and discounts. That is one thing, that at the moment twenty thousand people are being fed in a different way. The second issue, which is very important, is that we are trying to find alternative feeding methods, which are not so easy. The third is that we are trying to convince - let us say - our partners, our partners, that they cannot behave in a European country when it comes to financing, as in other areas with particular instability. That's what we're trying to do. So we're making every effort. With regard to the second part of your question, the Ministry of National Defence took about EUR 80 million from the European Union for the whole of its efforts. Of these, approximately 99% have been consumed. It has been checked and given by the European Union as well. The result of this 'good' is in the debate - if I am not mistaken - after the report or the internal document, which we are discussing, the European Union itself has asked for the Armed Forces to re-submit a proposal for 2017, which is something we are discussing and we expect to see what will happen in the next few days. Because the contracts currently in existence are due primarily to expire on 28 February 2017 and we are waiting for the new level of funding. Of course, we'll leave no hosting center, no hosting center, no such area without food. The other things will be mentioned in my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u48	Here, you have the floor again, Mr Papatheodorou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are indeed in good intention in this debate, which concerns not only the functioning of the state but also the function - you will allow me to say - the ombudsman of these situations and of these competitions. You said earlier that this was a proposal here. Minister, indeed, on the side of ECHO, we have operational priorities here, particularly in this report. That is why it says that by 1 March 2017 we should have found another alternative system. You stressed that there are no complaints and that there are no formal complaints. I will tell you this: Last September, a SYRIZA MEP, your colleague, denounced a member of the SYRIZA prefecture - I will not mention names - that he set up a competition to declare a contractor of EUR 750,000. Result: The person concerned left the prefecture of SYRIZA, but the competition developed normal and was implemented. Another complaint, which came to you: the competition for the feeding of forty-two centres came to the public, but in terms of a tender, which seems to have photographed certain pan-Hellenic companies and excluded others. The amount of this expenditure was over 70 million euros. You said then, in September, that the competition will not proceed, it will not be annual, but will take place on a monthly basis. Interesting, Minister, is not just that you blocked this contest, which was on the air. Interestingly, in this competition, Minister, companies were involved which, as we all know or some do, had been declared discounted by mass focusing competitions, such as universities and yet, these companies were among the candidate contractors before you stopped the competition. I don't know if they're still taking over some centers. They tell me they're on duty. Other complaints by non-governmental organisations in November about Ritchon - you know that very well because you had intervened - bring daily feedingstuffs literally to the trash. These are official complaints, Minister. They're not informal. And the fact that you had to answer the newspapers means there was a problem. The question, then, is that even today we have surnamed complaints - not official, branded - by people who have worked in these hot spots or hosting centres and publicly denounced that we are not talking about unacceptable food or simply money laundering, we are talking about total disgrace. Even for stray animals it does not make food, which is given to refugees - and that is why it is being thrown - under the responsibility of those supervising centres. In the vicinity of Athens, not only is food thrown away, but even when food not consumed as inappropriate was proposed to go to another social structure, you know what they said? That this food is inappropriate to people, and that's why they throw it away. They didn't take it into any social structure. That is why I say, Minister, that these complaints and formal complaints are also the smell of scandal. And in any case, the question is one: tell me which company was controlled and what has this control been done? Because, if there has been no control, on the one hand, the food is very simply being thrown away, but money is not being thrown into the pockets of some scientists, and on the other hand, we have complaints from refugees that once they open the package, they only take bread and water and fly the rest. That's what we're asking for. I'm sure you've been aware of these specific complaints.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u50	Thank you. Minister, before I give you the floor I must welcome the school that is attending. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, thirty-two students and students and two educational attendances from the Second-Turkish School of Opportunities (Second Chamber). The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] At the same time, I have an announcement to make.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, the question is not over. The Minister is standing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u52	That's what I said. I'm sorry. The school's leaving. That's why I interrupted, to say what we have to say. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that the Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity: "National Register of Loaders, National Register of Private Care Entities and other provisions". Please, Minister, you have the floor. And excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u53	It's all right, Mr. President. Alas, that's what's happening! First of all, Mr Papatheodorou, I would like to point out that I should like to discuss something that someone told a journalist and wrote, as you did at the end, I think it does not help our own debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u54	Minister, he's not in a reporter. It's to me personally.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u55	I will tell you - because all this is now a debate of the type 'one said to me, said to someone', and so on. - a brief picture of new open hosting structures of migrants and refugees of 10 February 2017, a GES hosting table - I do not have the GES, but is the overwhelming majority - of 10 February 2017, a table of the results of sampling checks on the GES sponsored food companies, which is mostly mentioned in the December season. I can testify to you all the evidence from there. Let me just tell you about one of the hardships, i.e. the Paradely Camp in Lesvos, the known Moria. On 11 December, on 20 December, on 1 January and on 19 January, samples were taken and I can tell you the results very quickly. An audit was carried out on 11 December and it is stated that there is no indication of the correct information. The rest is fine. I'm going to give you another set of tests, of which it turned out to be unrealistic, to see what happened to them. I'll deposit the paperwork so you can find it. I will also present to you the official note given to the General Staff. That's why I said it's a little hard to measure, because the contests, but also the checks, make them the General Staff and the respective units of the Army, the Air Force and the Navy in this particular area. I don't know, but it seems amazing to me. I know that in Richona, on a recent visit, with the active help of both the Red Cross and the Red Crescent, in so far as there are some excesses and in collaboration with the Mayor of Chalkida, they are given to the surrounding area to undignified people. I do not doubt that there have been such cases. But I'm saying it's not the general rule. The general rule is that an effort is constantly being made to improve. The second thing I want to say is that we must be very careful, because there are all the elements that show that not only did there not be a smuggling of resources, but a saving of resources. When we talk about something that includes about seventy - periodically I mean - hosting spaces, it's different if we find one of them once or twice. I would like to tell you that what we have in mind is to change the overall way of feeding. Somewhere, somewhere more and more, he's changing. It must be understood, however, that in a Host Center that has, let us say, a thousand people, operating with the refugee card - which is my view, but also Mr Muzala's view - it is not the easiest thing in the world to go shopping himself, cooking and having all these possibilities. In Konica they do, in collaboration with the municipality. In Richona and Koutsochore we complete it in collaboration with the Red Cross and the Red Crescent. So what I can say is let us all help to make living conditions even better. One last thing I would like to say is that it concerns not only the refugee issues, but also the issues of national defence. In the parties on the democratic arch - let us call it that, and I say this in order to come to an understanding - our doors and data are always open to a detailed debate. Our services are always available so that you can get the best information possible so that Members can do their job in the best possible way. I give you the figures I mentioned for the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, too. And lastly for today is the tenth third with number 428/31-1-2017 appropriate question for the second cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the immediate recruitment of fixed-term contractors (IDATH) - the tribes of museums and archaeological sites with a permanent and stable working status. The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, since mid-November 2016, museum guards and archaeological sites have been in the air, after the seven-month fixed-term contracts have expired, resulting, as every year, in archaeological sites and museums to remain operational, to be closed, unguarded and exposed to various dangers. A characteristic example is the Archaeological Museum of Heraklion, which almost the first floor last year remained closed for all winter, as well as the archaeological sites of Malion, Phaistos, Knossos and Gortyna. This year, due to the urgent risks created, it operates with thirteen daily guards and three night guards with four-month contracts and not beyond 31 March 2017. But that's not a solution. These are patches - let me have the word. The Heraklion Museum has thirty staff, while the needs to operate on double shifts, due to a high number of visitors 12 months a year, are for at least sixty people. And it is not only the above known archaeological sites that I mentioned, which cannot function, nor be effectively preserved. There are thousands of younger people throughout the country, for example the Holy Trinity in Phaistos, Vathypetro and Fourni next to Komopolis Arhannes, who are left to their fate. They first need to be raised, maintained, guarded, to say that you are really protecting cultural heritage. If the state does not do so with the recruitment of permanent staff, with the brave state financing of the services, then who will do so? It is known that the shortages of staff and flexible working relationships that have been imposed are always accompanied by intensification of work, incompatibility, circumvention of working hours and terrorism many times in the workplace, as long as the programme is out with the expanded operation of archaeological sites and museums. They are problems that all governments and your own intentionally maintain, in the view of the JRC, and use them as a pretext in order to slow down the involvement of individuals in the care, protection, promotion, digitalisation, management of cultural heritage by contractors, securiti companies, using the method of voluntary care and non-governmental organisations, such as the NGO "DIAZOMA" that operates in the area of culture, and to solve various state and Community funds. In other words, privatization, the total tradition of archaeological sites, museums, ancient theatres, cultural heritage exhibits in the hands of monopolistic groups, for new areas of profitability. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. And the solution is one, so that all these services can function properly: simulation. Not the 'we will not make contracts' that may be said by parties, but the permanentization without terms and conditions, without any distinction, of all the archbishops who have already been working for many years with unacceptable fixed-term contracts, while covering long-term needs. Secondly, the recruitment of additional archaeologists, archaeologists, technicians, conservators, engineers, various other specialities, all those that meet the constant needs for the preservation, conservation and conservation of cultural heritage, and of course to stop this unacceptable regime of twenty-fourth, sixty-month, and the long-term ESDP programmes that do not guarantee a stable job. We have tabled a resolution in this regard as a reference to you, the Heraklion Municipal Council. I'm filing it in the Minutes, so there'll be a story. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Syntrakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] So the question, Minister, is this: What measures will you take - immediately, however - to recruit permanent staff with full rights to cover all deficits, so as to put an end to this hostage regime and ensure the operation of museums and archaeological sites throughout the country? Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Collegiate, thank you for your question. There is no doubt that there is a great need for our great cultural heritage, for archaeological sites and museums. The Ministry of Culture and Sport recognises this need to cover the standing storage needs of archaeological sites and museums by permanent staff. That is why it has promoted a long-standing request for the recruitment of two hundred permanent archbishops through an ASP competition. The required credit approval by the General Accounting Office of the State has already been granted, and the issue is at the appropriate Ministry of Administrative Reconstruction for the adoption of the relevant approval decision. We know that there is a huge work of archaeological, excavations and restoration. There is an increasing need for storage. But at this stage we managed to have a permanent employment, in line with the constant needs of two hundred archbishops. The remaining positions - seasonal positions - which are created relate to the storage of sites in the area where there is increased visibility. These are not permanent, standing and constant needs. They're seasonal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u60	Thank you. You have the floor again, Mr Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u61	Indeed, Minister, the Prime Minister announced from Nisros in mid-December the recruitment of two hundred permanent archbishops. You realise that it is a drop in the ocean, for two reasons: on the one hand, because - and, on the other, it is not possible to say about tourism in three hundred and sixty-five days a year, so that there is a rise in traffic and, at the same time, to say that with two hundred hirings you will solve the problem. After all, this was said in December. We have a February. Let's see where this is going to end up. Besides, the two-two recruitments - I am referring to Heraklion - account for about thirteen intakes of guards for all the archaeological sites and the Heraklion Museum, when only 30 are needed for the Heraklion Museum. So under no circumstances does it cover a minimum to say that you have a proper and effective approach to the matter. Especially in Crete, as I said, the flow of visitors remains constant throughout the year. Its historical, natural and cultural wealth makes it a unique and unique destination during the winter period. However, although there are archaeological sites of the highest cultural value, these problems of preservation and subsistence unfortunately remain and are glossed daily, unless the government's intention, the Ministry, is to provide the preservation and, of course, the whole of the operation and management of cultural monuments in the future, gradually either in private speculation or through non-governmental organisations in security companies and the thickest and most profitable "filettes" in various multinational groups. It is undergoing the rocking of millions of euros by contractors and subcontractors - we have discussed them here again - regarding the digitisation of mobile monuments with the tolerance, if not the encouragement, of the government and yours personally. You have done absolutely nothing on this issue. The same goal is for various synergies, partnerships developed by the NGO "DIZOMA" with municipalities, regions, the participation of sponsors of companies in actions concerning the ancient theatres, the preservation of archaeological sites by volunteers, for which will of course absorb a lot of funds through the new NGO. I assume you are aware of the NGO 'DIZOMA'. You are a founding member of this non-governmental organisation. The President is the former Minister of Culture of PASOK, Mr Stavros Benos, and indeed, as a brother-in-law, Mrs Vlazaki, the Secretary-General of your Ministry. Today, then, at the same time as we are discussing, a memorandum of cooperation between the Municipality and Diazoma is being discussed at the Heraklion Municipal Council, which, apart from the ancient theatres and the preservation of archaeological sites, also opens up jobs in other areas, so-called 'Cultural Routes'. I present this memorandum of cooperation of the Municipality with the "DIZOMA" in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Syntrakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] So all these plans are part of the plan drawn up by the previous governments and you continue it. You implement it with people's money - it may be Community, but it is people's money - so that archaeological services, namely guarding, maintenance and management, can go through the regions. Do you know, then, how much money will be scattered through the 2014-2020 MAGP to various entrepreneurs and non-governmental organisations for such projects? 14 million euros will be scattered. Who's going to get these 14 million euros? The first step is to become synergy between NGOs, regions and municipalities. This is where various ‘tour operator’ and shipping groups will be involved, to make Heraklion a brand name in order to win millions of business groups. So the point is that culture is the heritage of our people. It's good. It's not a merchandise, it's not sold or purchased. So I return to my question, which is this: Will you hire staff to strengthen the services of the Ministry of Culture, protect them, preserve them, maintain them, operate the museums and archaeological sites throughout the country? This is what is being called for, not 'blocks', i.e., so that some simulations or four-month or seven-month contracts under conditions of austerity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u62	Please, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u63	Mr Colleagues, with all the issues you have raised, in addition to the main theme of your question, we should use a lot of time to answer that question. However, I can assure you that there is no intention of privatising the storage of archaeological sites, and that is clear. We are in a position to hire at the moment two hundred permanent employees. There is the intention of a fair distribution throughout Greece based on the hierarchy of monuments, archaeological sites and museums. Because you raised the subject of DIAZOLOS and I think you have offered a very large amount of misinformation, I would like to say that DIAZOMA does not take the NSA. The "DIZOMA", with the citizens' contribution, provides mature studies so that the Ministry of Culture and Sport can take the NSRFs. Restoring the large monuments offers a great lever of growth in areas where they are resurrected. That's what's happened. I'm surprised you guys don't want this. You don't want local communities to advance around their ancient monuments? You don't want this rich legacy not just to be a dead legacy, but to lure all local communities, education, healthy entrepreneurship, not parasitic ones? Why does that stop you, Mr. Synchronism? Why don't you want that? All people will advance around these important monuments, which the Ministry of Culture resurrects. That's the reality. I repeat that DIAZOMA offers services to the Ministry of Culture and does not solve the NRAs. This is misinformation and we must say it clearly so that there is no dark side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, too. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-13-S1-commons.u65	With the agreement of the House at 19.35 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 14 February 2017 at 18.00, on the subject of this House's legislative work: according to the agenda that has been distributed.
