ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Thursday 11 May 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 801/8-5-2017 by MP Dodecanese of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Ilia Kamaterou to finance, concerning the OPAP contract with agents. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The current question by MP Kilkis of New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction, concerning the restriction of recruitment to all entities and legal entities of the central administration. 3. The question asked by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The Government is preventing investment in the development of the former Greek airport." 4. The timely question by MP Halkidiki of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr.Saving Vlachos to the Minister of Health, about the shortcomings of ambulances in the Halkidiki Prefecture that endanger citizens' lives. 5. The Question No 804/8-5-2017 by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the operation and development of the Institute for Geological and Mining Research (IGME). 6. The question asked by Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and Mr Spyridon Lykoudi to the Minister of Finance by Mr Spyridon Lykoudis on the subject: "They remain real estate for which the public pays high rents". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 802/8-5-2017 by MP Attica of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skouriakou to the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the significant delays in the tender for the licensing of television stations. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 799/5-2017 of the current question by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The significant delays in the relocation of the Silver Law settlement Florina that put the lives of its residents at risk". 3. The question by No 803/8-5-2017 that was asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Acquired application of the regulation of the hundreds of twenty-dollars, for all dues to the insurance funds, irrespective of their integration into the procedures of extrajudicial conciliation". 4. The Question No 800/5-5-2017 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The installation of two hundred nine young wind turbines in southern Karysia Evvoia threatens biodiversity and economy". 5. The question asked by MP Kilkis of New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food regarding the immediate payment of the beneficiaries of organic farming - livestock farming of the Kilkis County. 6. The question asked by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios Prussias, Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the exception of Evros and Samothraki from exceptional aid to milk producers in islands experiencing problems due to migratory flows. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 623/20-3-2017 by MP Evros of New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Health, concerning the tragic deficiencies at the Dumos Hospital leading to shrinking, depreciation and deterioration. 8. The Question by MP Halkidikis of New Democracy Mr. George Vagionas to the Minister of Economy and Development concerning the problems facing the bakers industry in Greece. 9. The Question by Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance concerning the sale of the "National Insurance". 10. The question raised by Mr Ioannis Saridis on the privatisation of the Greek Vehicle Industry (ELBO) was raised by MP I of the Union of Central and Eastern European countries, Mr Ioannis Saridis. 11. The Question by MP Kilkis of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Christos Hadjisavvas to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Is the national economy ready for a possible collapse of the euro area?". 12. Mr Georgios Vlachos, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Georgios Vlachos, on his excellent report. Venizelos with the Greek State for the period 2025-2055. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food about when the payments of organic farming and livestock are to be made. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway on cooperation in the field of defence equipment, systems and services". The draft law was passed by a majority vote in the Standing Committee and is brought to the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this memorandum. I would therefore ask those who have put it negatively in committee to take the floor. Mr. Tassos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. As we have said in committee, we are voting against the relevant memorandum of understanding between the Greek and Norwegian Defence Ministries, because this memorandum does not serve our country's defence needs but rather against the aggressive needs of an imperialist organisation such as NATO. We are voting against it both at the outset and on the articles. I would, however, like to stress here the potential of the Greek Defence Industry, which, of course, are great but are not exploited for the benefit of the country's defence but of NATO's aggressive planning. For example, around fourteen thousand Stinger heads were produced in the factories of Hymittos and Elefsina between 1992 and 2003, about 10% of them were returned and equipped with the Greek Armed Forces as integrated anti-aircraft missiles based on Greece's share in this co-production. On the basis of the above-mentioned production of the Stinger programme, Germany, but also internationally, the potential of the former PYRKAL in modern rocket production technologies was recognised by Germany. Thus the "Greek Defence Systems" began to participate in the international co-production cooperation of six European countries (Consortium), namely Germany, Greece, Spain, Italy, Norway and Sweden, the IRIS-T air-missile that currently equips all the aircraft of our Hellenic Air Force. In this context, the consolidated company now signed a serial production contract for three thousand hundred and fifty sets of WHU-SAU, with the contractor of the same German company ‘DIEHL’, who also undertook the final assembly of the missile system on behalf of six European co-production countries. Greece's participation rate was about 10% with the return of the corresponding number of integrated IRIS-T missiles for our Hellenic Air Force. With regard to the current status of the IRIS-T programme, the initial contract of serial production of the three thousand hundred and fifty sets of WHU - SAU March 2012 - SAU September 2012, while during the same period they were produced by the NSAs and at the request of DIEHL beyond the above quantity for the six cogeneration countries, a hundred and seventy sets for Saudi Arabia, Austria, South Africa, Thailand, as well as the German development programme for the expansion of the use of the missile as ground-air for the air defence of IRIS-T Surface Launched, which is expected to be completed by the end of 2018. This latter element is of particular importance to RUs, since DIEHL has already requested and purchased the support of its electronics department for the design changes to be made to the new use of the IRIS-T missile in the security-activation mechanism. The most important thing, however, is that there is the possibility of NRAs participating in the production of the corresponding WHU-SAU set in the new programme, the safe and arming unit, which will be called security and arming device SAD, will be converted, i.e. the name - amount calculated in the seven hundred eight hundred sets. At the same time, the NSAs have signed a framework contract, frame contract, for six hundred new WHU-SAU sets with low production rate, low rate of production, until 2018 for in- and out-of-co-producers countries, which have already delivered two hundred sixty sets, and are expected to place a new order of about a hundred sets of WHU-SAU in 2017. So we do have possibilities to produce equipment, which if it were done in another context, could actually contribute to the defence of the country. Unfortunately, however, in the context of NATO and the European Union, these possibilities are not exploited for the country's defence but for NATO's aggressive planning. Now another element that we would like to mention and which relates to this memorandum is the relationship Norway has with the Cyprus EEZ. It is known that the Norwegian company PGS, Petroleum Geo - Services, has carried out three-dimensional seismographic surveys with the seismic ‘RAMFORM TETHYS’ in the Cypriot parts of EEZ ‘10’ and ‘6’. The same company has conducted all two-dimensional and three-dimensional seismographic surveys in the Cypriot EEZ since 2006. In fact, rumours suggest that there are geological structures similar to that in which the giant ‘Zor’ look of the Egyptian EEZ was discovered. Only recently, a few days ago, the Norwegian research vessel ‘RAMFORM HYPERION’ arrived in Cyprus and will be used in subsequent investigations into ‘annoying’, for Turkey, land of EEZ. As I said before, for the reasons I have explained, we are voting against both the principle and the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u3	Thank you. Mr. Kouzilos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we have stressed many times that we are not opposed to any sanctions that are in the positive direction and that helps our defence industry. Such a sanction shall record the intentions of the two Ministries of Defence. These intentions are then notified to the defence industries, state and private, in order to investigate the existence of interest in areas such as defence equipment, research and development programmes. What we are going to stand for, and we consider it to be very positive, is the research and development programmes of this Convention. It is also acceptable that without a defence industry there can be no credible defence. That is why the defence industry and armaments sector has been and is an essential factor in safeguarding our national interests. It is clear that the issue of our country is how, with an appropriate defence industry and cooperation policy, it could achieve the acquisition of know-how, the high participation of the defence industry and the development of research and technology. There is, in fact, an area in which the defence industry can work. Norway is a country with a high level of research, technology and industrial production. Indeed, it has managed as a small country to be at a very high level of production of primary weapons systems and other defence products, even if many of its customers are American Armed Forces. Could our country make use of such cooperation with Norway? The know-how that could be gained will help our national defense? We want to believe, in spite of all the problems that exist in our defence industry, that we are given an opportunity at this time, as with some other sanctions on the defence industry that we have said positively. Could we, in the context of such cooperation, have a role, not only in the production of material but also in technology? We want to believe that our defence industry has all the foundations to be able to exploit these sanctions and these conventions. We would like to ask you to set up the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security to tell us what is going to happen from now on for our defence industry. There are too many developments from your latest briefings and we are asking you to set up the Committee on Foreign and Security for the defence industry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u5	Thank you. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, we had reservations in the Committee on Foreign Affairs only to get the right to intervene in plenary and not to have disputes and disputes with you. You must decide in the Bureau to adapt your practice so that we do not need a political force and a parliamentary group that has no objection to a convention to resort to a solution to the reservation in plenary. So I want the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u7	You have him, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u8	In my speech and Mr Kammenos's reply to the Standing Committee, something good has emerged. I don't fail to praise a minister where I think he's doing something good. In this respect, it is good that the Ministry of National Defence has cleared things with all the texts, the contractual texts, which it has signed in previous years. And Mr. Kammenos told us that this was about eighty-five and everything has been ratified. We have arrived to ratify, that is, conventions, agreements of the current leadership of the Ministry, with other countries, we have arrived to ratify the 2016 Ministry's agreements. In other words, we are completely in the middle of time and are responding to the other side, because Norway has ratified it in this respect. So, we're pretty good, too. That is very good and we praise it. We are therefore calling on the Ministry of National Defence at a special meeting of the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to carry out an evaluation of these conventions. Have we been used? When did we have to invoke them? And this, so that this House also knows that it is making a compulsory move to another side, to our diplomatic relations, to our international relations, to our defence international relations, but beyond the good move with another side, to see these texts that are also used somewhere and where they are used. The first point I want to raise is that. The second issue is more general in the Ministry. But it is about Mr Deputy Minister himself, because I heard him days ago, or so I read, announcing a 15-year-old equipment. Since you are here today, we would like you to tell us more about this in Parliament's Chamber. The third issue, Minister, is to tell us first of all, as a member of the government, where you buy ink and if you buy it with the pound to sign memos. But beyond what is a general political criticism - and we will see it next week - there are some issues that concern you in particular. And as a lawyer, I would ask you how you can accept the non-repayment of the taxable income of the contributions? How can you accept that as a lawyer? Because this is one side of your business that I'm not ignoring at all. How can you for the first time in the years of the crisis impose this - which is flagrantly unconstitutional - and expenditure on contributions be regarded as income? But there's something else about your ministry. Minister, we read that the law you will bring next week makes cuts in the wages of soldiers, officers and officers. Is that so? And where do these cuts come from? Have you discussed your space? Is these things known, or are they matters that will appear in the public debate? A last item I would like to raise is the issue of recent NAVTEX - we read it yesterday - about Kastelorizo. We had also had a debate in the committee with Mr Kammenos, who had even announced that he would request a meeting with closed doors of the Standing Committee on Foreign and Defence, which is welcome. After all, we have responded to all the political forces. And from the last time we had such a debate at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and with you, there was no leak. And this is praised for the National Representation and for the political parties. Finally, Mr President, there is from late last night on the press in the debate on a public debate of the Court of Auditors, which relates to the reduction of pensions in 2019, namely the abolition of the personal difference, for which from what we read - from what we read - we are being transported by the media, I have not seen the text, I am legal and I must be careful - did not raise any issue of constitutionality. As far as we are concerned, he raised a question of conflicting these arrangements with provisions of over-legislative effect. And what are these? The provisions of the Convention on Human Rights and of the Additional Protocols thereto. If that's the case, what are you gonna do? Because this opinion of the Court of Auditors on pensions, Mr President, is compulsory. Don't you get that opinion? You can't bring pension law when you regulate the constitution. So what are you gonna do? Will you resolve the issues now by changing the source of revenue for the country's budgets or will you go to an ignorance of these arrangements to break the problem in 2019? Because I hear them say that these decisions of the Court of Auditors do not bind the governments and the majority of the House. But the truth is, they are prelude to court decisions later. In other words, when these are voted on and there are other governments, then the highest courts in the country and this particular claim will be justified. And you will be 'inheriting' - within introductory terms - the problems in the next few days. What are you gonna do? Will you solve them today, or will you let them solve their lives at the expense of others after a few years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Association of Centres retained the reservation during the committee on this ratification only because it had found some things that should not have been done by the Greek side. Votes for the Memorandum of Understanding and Cooperation of the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic with the Ministry of National Defence of the Kingdom of Norway. The Centro Association has been doing this for eighteen months within the Greek Parliament. For eighteen months it has supported the effort of the Ministry of National Defence and Foreign Affairs, bringing moratoriums here because that is what the national interest demands in spite of all the reservations, which it may have made at times with the perception that the national interest only requires consensus and cooperation with the Ministry of National Defence and Foreign Affairs. But there is one point, which I mentioned in the committees, and I would like to mention it here too, so that it can also be recorded in plenary. It is an issue that has given us particular thought: This memorandum was signed last year in July 2016. At the same time discussions were taking place on the future of ELVO, one of Greece's defence industries. Then, then, the ministers from the relevant ministries - both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of National Defence - promised various things about the future of ELVO. At the same time as this memorandum was signed, Norway needed vehicles because it was the only part of the Norwegian industry that was not activated. So there was no provision in the signing of this Memorandum from the Greek side. So what the government promised toward ELVO workers was a fruitful hope. By this omission, namely by not including the government's prospect of restructuring and relocation of ELVO, the Government has shown that the future of ELVO was a predetermined one. In committee - and we are very sorry about this - the Minister - not the Deputy Minister - told us about a business plan, as well as about a company from South Africa. We don't understand these things. How can we talk about business plan when the offers have not yet been opened? And how can we photograph companies like that? We will be next to the ELVO workers in order to safeguard their future and their prospects for life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, too. Mr. Poppas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I would like to point out this: a few moments ago Mr Loverdes raised a number of issues - for me well - concerning the wage bills, the special salaries of the officers and officers of the Armed Forces. I'd like to add my uniforms and the subject. In fact, the day before yesterday I asked the Ministry of National Defence a similar question. The Ministry of National Defence and the military leadership with the directions of the political leadership show a great prerogative for officers to pay their uniforms any more. He has therefore raised issues that are not beyond the current ratification, which we are talking about. I say this so that you know it, too, and the people who see us know it. You're one of those who often do it. You did not interrupt him to say "you are out of the question, please speak within the subject" and so on. If our competitor, Mr Kouzilos, did so, because he knows the issues, as a member of the committee, would make a big deal of noise here. However, because a representative of the constitutional arch, the memorandum, has done so, I would say - and you, Mr Loverdo, are wrong about these issues, because in the house of the hanged man they do not speak of a rope, because if you had not voted on the third memorandum that led directly to the fourth, we would not have these issues right now - you would have raised a storm and told Kouzilos "stop, we're talking about ratification" and others. That's all I had to say, nice and nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u13	Does another parliamentary representative want to speak? Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u14	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u16	Bypass and concession, you have the floor for two minutes, and then the Minister will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u17	Please, Mr President, I would like the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u18	You might want what you want. Sit down. Mr. Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u19	First, Mr Minister, as our rapporteur said earlier, we do not question the possibility of extending existing cooperation by notifying the State and private defence industries of the two countries. It is a positive development, and that is why we are clarifying it in plenary. At the same time, we have repeatedly stressed that the positive nature of these cooperations does not change the fact that in our country there is still no strategic planning, with timetables specifically for the defence industry as a whole. So the actual valuation of any such memorial is absolutely theoretical. I do not give personal responsibilities, but we need to see overall how all these processes are integrated into a more comprehensive strategy. Secondly, I put a question simply to clarify. Is it true that the Navy discusses the possibility of supplying two offshore arrays directed by the Norwegian company KONGSBERG, of EUR 120 million, to be installed on specific islands of the eastern and central Aegean and operating as immersible aircraft carriers, according to some information, and that the programme includes Greek industrial participation? If yes, this is done in the context of, even informally, this memorandum of understanding, that is, there is essentially a synergy with the specific memorandum that we are dominating today and perhaps that is why it comes in a reasonable period - in 2016, this memorandum of cooperation - was signed - which is a good thing, that is to say, that it should come very quickly and that there should be no delays? So this is something which is linked and which is why you may also be bringing it up at a speed that is currently the one with which these memorandums of understanding need to come and ratify? Of course, because, Minister, you are the Minister of Government, I would like to say that it is not only what is being ratified today, but it is actually a new memorandum that comes to you in the next few days, and it also concerns your particular ministry and the specific costs, for which you must clarify to us what is happening, but also with your overall attitude, which concerns all policy areas and the Ministry of National Defence. The policy that at the moment leads to a state of dogmatic austerity, with reductions in pensions, with tax reductions, with such measures that actually take everyone...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u20	All right, you'll see next week, Mr. Theocharopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u21	I have five minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u22	Okay, five minutes, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u23	I can't understand, we just talked about the memorandum coming next week in Parliament's plenary session,
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u24	Really? Previously, we heard suggestions to the contrary, and now you tell us this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u25	...your intention is to interrupt the Parliamentary Representative of Democratic Independence at the time of speaking? I can't understand it. So you'll hear the review...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u26	You have time to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u27	Of course, we don't do like you, the time you did to the SYRIZA government, just find out what state the country is...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u28	All right, you've heard all about it fast.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u29	Not to me, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u30	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u31	Not to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u32	Why, what are you? Sit down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u33	Say we have time to learn...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u34	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u35	Two years you have learned on the back of the Greek people!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u36	Finish, finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u37	You learn on the backs of the Greek people. And here you will hear the opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u38	Whoever shouts doesn't go above his stature.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u39	You'll hear the criticism. You won't avoid it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u40	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u41	Minister - because criticism is about the government and, of course, it is not about the Bureau of Parliament, which is in fact trying to intervene in the exercise of a substantial opposition - that the country cannot proceed in this way. Let's make it clear: the country doesn't come out with these new measures. One more thing. Sign and want to bring measures to the House after 2019. At the same time you tell the Greek public that "we will remove the country from the memorandum from the crisis". Really? Are you not undermining the country's exit from the crisis and the memoranda, signing something that concerns the years after 2018, with new measures and primary surplus targets of 3.5%, which, in order to achieve this, need excessive primary surpluses? Basically overtaxation, that is, no growth. That's what you've been doing these years. How do we get out of the crisis? Because you say the fairy tale of the neutral financial result, may I ask you a question: if we achieve 3% primary surplus in the years to come - a high percentage - and we achieve a year of 2.5% and 3%, will anything be given behind what you think to sign? That's why we're telling you it'll be on the paper and the countermeasures. This is another mockery of the government, such as the election programme of Thessaloniki - and you are well aware that it was not implemented - and the parallel programme of June 2015. In this mockery of measures and countermeasures you will not find supporters from the Democratic Incorporation, at least, which will vote against this unacceptable logic.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u42	Mr Pinheiro has the floor, and then the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, as a new Republic, we are in principle in agreement with transnational cooperation with countries in the European zone, especially in research and development programmes. Mr Minister, in the end I call it a wish of good intentions, which is pleasurable to the Greeks and the Norwegians. However, as a new Republic, we must stress that it can be a carpet under which we can hide opaque procedures and form the legal basis for future illegality, which you know we are not going to tolerate, and we do not want to believe that it will be used as a framework of opaque procedures. Therefore, Minister, we will address a number of concerns arising from this conclusion of the agreement and need further investigations and explanations on your part. Basic question: How did the need for an agreement with Norway began? Why was the country selected? What purposes does this agreement serve? There were such partnerships in the past and what were they? It would be useful to refer to specific articles and to the way they have been formulated in this draft law and need either clarifications or recastings or changes, if any. In particular, Article 1 concerns and equals state-owned companies in the two countries, which is contrary to existing legislation. There are also issues which may require scrutiny of the constitutionality of the law, as described in Article 3, and questions arise about the contents of the draft law. Why does the Minister of National Defence want unlimited authority on the basis of this agreement? Why do you not wish to inform the House and its institutions at every step of cooperation with that country and do not mention it? Also, do you not take into account that an ERM is in prison and at the expense of someone else today is being interrogated? It is important to stress, but also to emphasise, that this article gives the Minister for Defence general authorisation to take any further steps by him, without the necessary information from Parliament. To go through Article 14, where the National Security Regulation is being circumvented and not guaranteed, Mr President, as the individual items will only be agreed at the level of technical committees and will be put to a separate settlement, which will be agreed at the start of each project, as described in the article. Article 16 underlines that, if disagreement arises about the interpretation or implementation of the memorandum, that is to say, the agreement - you also like the term Memorandum! - then the disputes will not be referred to any national or international court or body for settlement, but the parties will seek a friendly solution. That's a vague thing. What exactly does 'friendly' mean, Mr President, between countries and, indeed, those which have real interests? We are talking here about defence equipment, very high-value defence systems, matters of confidentiality. You must be more specific about how these differences can be resolved. Will you personally solve them with your Norwegian counterpart or the HR? A law must be clear and must not leave shadows and misinterpretations, as is the case in this article. We must also note that the financial burden arising from this cooperation is not clear in the law and it should be reflected in a separate article. Bring in a fourth Memorandum. Should not the Greek people know what will be charged by such agreements and cooperation? State only that the Greek-Nordic Joint Cooperation Committee will be responsible for any financial arrangement issued. It will also be important to inform us of this. More generally, we consider that the draft law in question should be given further legislative improvements to ensure confidentiality, the armed systems of the Armed Forces, for reasons of transparency and the general interest of the Greek public. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, the most important point in the memorandum we are considering today is the benefits that will arise for our defence industries, which, as a result of government omissions, are in fact a dead end. At the end of his introduction, the Minister of National Defence before the committee, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u44	And that's what you're finishing up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u45	He referred to ELVO's theme. We expected the government to present a resolution plan for all the defence industries, but this never happened. We have only stayed with your announcements and promises, but they have not been done, as you are accustomed to as government. Now we have ELVO's sale with the relevant tender running until 15 May, at a lower price than that of 10 million. At the same time, you are opening a door to the private defence industries to take part in the implementation of the agreement, the ratification of which we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u46	Come on, Mr. Prisoner.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u47	I'm closing, Mr. President. We have heard at the meeting of the Standing Committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u48	You said that in committee too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u49	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u50	We heard at the meeting of the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs last Wednesday...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u51	Come on, let's get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u52	...speak enthusiastically about the South African "PARAMOUNT", who is interested in ELVO. He talked about the company's business plan, about the fact that the workers' jobs are being secured...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u53	Well, it's over, Mr. Prisoner. You're done. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u54	Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u55	Time's up. What's your request?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u56	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u57	Time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u58	But it's a serious matter about the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u59	A lot of serious stuff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u60	Let it go through by legislative act. Let nothing come to the House unless the rapporteur can speak. Do an act of legislation, so that we don't get upset. Do it with an MDG!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u61	For Christ's sake!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u62	What do you mean, Mr. Metarakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u63	If it doesn't have time for the House to listen to the rapporteur for Officerial Response,...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u64	There's time, it's written!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u65	...let's get a D.N.A. to get it over with!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u66	That's funny, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u67	Funny?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u68	That's funny.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u69	The rapporteur of the Officerial Response...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u70	Is there time? I gave the floor to Mr. Prussakis at the outset of the Rules of Procedure and you speak on top?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u71	I can't avoid temptation to say that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u72	Whoever shouts doesn't go above his stature in here. Come on, let's get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u73	...in July and September 2013, the Minister himself said that "they will break the Samara - Venizelos government because he was allegedly selling" - as they claimed - "ELVO and all the defence industry in Germany". Now everything is fine and you wait for "PARAMOUNT" as the god engine to buy ELVO 10 million! I am sure that you too, Mr Deputy Minister, would be in the committee or be in the opposition today, as the workers of ELVO have recently done in Thessaloniki, who are rightly fighting for their jobs and for the future of the industry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u74	Mr. Treasury, can I tell you something?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u75	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u76	You have said that ten times, 'I'm closing'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u77	The issue of the defence industries is a very serious one, and there must be an in-depth debate in this House on the problems which, Mr President, are facing here in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, this has been said in committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u79	We heard them. Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u80	It is not just jobs and people in danger of losing their jobs. We're their supporters. But national interests are at stake in critical times for the country, with the increasing provocative rhetoric of our neighbours.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u81	Good. We get it. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u82	Mr President, I am so sorry. Thank you first for giving me the floor. But in the economy you had to give him to me. You didn't do us a favor. Why am I saying that? Because we and you as Bureau have agreed to change the Rules of Procedure of the House...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u83	Mr. Purchass, excuse me. Illegality cannot be imposed as a logic. Please! I gave you the floor, you took twice as much time. What else do you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u84	No, this House should also be informed, my colleagues...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u85	From you! How much time do you want to update?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u86	We should be careful. This article and you are changing it in the context of the revision of the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u87	Do you think we should put this into effect before we change it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u88	That is why I asked for the floor in economic terms.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u89	Excuse me, now are you asking us to apply an article that will arise after the change? Is that what you suggest?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u90	I said 'economy'. Did you hear that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u92	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, I would like to point out to you and to the House that a bad precedent has been created here in violation of Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure of this House. If this continues, unfortunately what we are seeing here today will continue at the next meetings. Indeed, to those who are in the committee - in addition to those who vote positively and who see that they come back to raise objections to a positive vote which they gave to the relevant Commission, in the case of Defence and Foreign Affairs - to those who stand up for them in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, are allowed - and make it an obstacle - to speak when the reservation is not a denial? I don't understand. How do you interpret it? By taking the opportunity in plenary, while considering a ratification of a memorandum between Greece and Norway, to say where the Minister found the ink to sign the memorandum? Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u94	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u95	That is a point of order. On the main issue we have expressed our view and our position in committee. We won't repeat it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u97	Wait a minute, Mr. Dannelly. I asked before who wants the floor. The procedure cannot be applied like this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u98	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u99	It cannot be applied like this! It is up to the maturity of the House and each individual. Highliness and responsibility cannot be imposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u100	I'm signing it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u101	So the best way is to apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u102	Since the Rules of Procedure are not respected, then, could I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u103	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u104	Thank you. You're right. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, those who have agreed and voted in favour of the committee are not entitled to speak. However, a countermeasure has recently been applied to a, it seems, distorting functioning of the Rules of Procedure: that is, although only those who have reserved or refused to vote in committee can be put here even if they agree with the bill to be discussed. Since the scenes before us do not look for a honour in the parliamentary procedure, I am therefore appealing for you and us, as well as for the Conference of Presidents, to unite our voices so that we can function orthodoxly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and its predictions, but also according to the right word and the actual production of parliamentary work. So I appeal to the Minister and through the Minister of State at the Ministerial Council, not to continue the process that has brought about the previous phenomena, namely to add independent amendments when we discuss ratification of conventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u105	Today we have not had such an amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u106	I know. However, today, and very negatively, this distorting approach to a distorted provision of the Rules of Procedure has been expressed. So I appeal to all of us, because I imagine that we are interested in the same thing, to act as a Parliament. So let's gather all the things we left in the previous period to open up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u107	All right, Mr. Dannelly. You're the ones who can tell about your seriousness. But that is now acrobaticism. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the educational programme of the "Democracy Workshop" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty students and students and a teacher from the I.M. School. Panagiotopoulos. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u108	First of all, I have to make a necessary correction, so that we don't have an announcement from a legal association. The correction is that I've completed my legal studies, but I've never been a lawyer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u109	Haven't you ever practiced it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u110	No, no. I've never practiced it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u111	I didn't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u112	Then I went to marketing, management etc. Those who know me know me know. The second thing I would like to say is that it is common at plenary sittings - and also at committee meetings - to start on a specific subject and to extend to every disease, to every subject. I'm not saying good or bad. Everyone judges it. That's what happened today. I have heard that it is possible to ratify a memorandum of understanding. I have heard that, too, that we should make a legislative act! What do I mean by that? First of all, I would like to say that it is a general framework on which cooperation is taking place. It cannot be specified what will happen to this, what will happen to the other, but how the differences are resolved, on the basis of what we are moving and saying. When we go to the general framework, the laws of the state, the Constitution, etc., which specialise these things now come. They solve these issues. The law, for example, on procurement or any cooperation with Norway - with the state on the one hand and companies on the other - is governed by the procurement law, by the Constitution of the country, by a number of other laws. Every such programme comes to the House, takes its approval, once, twice and sometimes three and four times. So the debate is just about the impressions. It's not for that particular thing. For example, none of you have noticed that the "NATO languages" of the English text has been translated - unfortunately officially - as "NATO agents". I've noticed, and I've asked for a change. They are not agents, they are "nato services" of course! What do I want to say on the contract? It is an advantageous contract like the one we have signed with a number of other countries, which clarify the terms and the logic of cooperation. Have we ever worked with Norway before? Sure. For example, Penguin is Norwegian. We've been working together before. Are we going to work together again? I know that at the committee meeting and the Minister of National Defence said that we are also discussing additional cooperation in weapons systems, where they are more powerful, where we can learn where we are possible. The Greek defence industry cannot survive only on the basis of the needs of the Armed Forces. Let's be clear about this. What's new about this? The new on this is that, seeing the previous law, seeing the procedures, seeing its logic, we highlight the process of industrial participation, so that we do not have contracts with 1,19% of industrial participation. We are trying to put a ceiling on it. Defence industry operators, on the other hand, often say that we should reach it and be an inalienable term of 30%. You heard it recently in a discussion organized by the Hellenic American Chamber of Commerce. It's probably not that far, but it's a target for the Greek defence industry to win, but the country's Armed Forces to win too. This is a key issue. In the sense now of the needs of the Armed Forces, the existing law and the national defence industrial strategy provide for two things, for which I have spoken recently: a general framework of 15-year supply and a more specific one, corresponding to three-year duration. In other words, in three years' time we will say that we will build this, we need this, we will upgrade this, we will sustain this. In the fifteen years we will say that there is generally the need for this in the Navy, that in the Air Force, that's what's in the Drought Army and it goes on to say. That is the basic point, but it already exists as a logic. It's never happened, though, now it's happening. That is - if you want - the main issue. So that's where we have to stand. The second issue - and I will end with a third - is that there has been a certain debate with ELVO. I don't understand now. To speak of parties such as the Central Association, for example, about ELVO, I understand that, but that the New Democracy and the PASOK talk about ELVO, I do not understand. But ELVO went into liquidation on their governments. Don't go crazy. And that is the very end of this cleansing. On May 15, there are offers and they are completed in a reasonable way, not by selling one machine and the other machine. Secondly, we have made it clear that once tenders are opened, the main issue will be business plan and with this fact that there will be no single job lost by the existing ones, namely those who are currently working. It's clearly these things. I myself have said that when the proposal and the business plan are submitted, we will also talk about it with the workers' unions and they know it. I've seen them so many times in my office and in Thessaloniki. And let's go solve an issue that had not been solved. You know that the employees in ELVO have been paid up to the last cent right now, and there is the problem with the one-off of the pensioners of EUR 2,200 000 and these will be taken from the price. You also know that the issue is open, after the completion of this process and the possibility of the participation of the Ministry of National Defence - which within the contract is that it will take EUR 400,000 a year for the offset in ELVO - in equity. But it must be understood who will continue ELVO and not shut it down, not cut it down, not sell its clothes, as the liquidation predicted, and with workers in unemployment. This is a great difference and you should know both Thessaloniki MPs and MPs throughout the country. Now, the last issue concerns wages. Just know the following: The wage cost of the Ministry of National Defence is not reduced by a cent. That is the first issue. Secondly, the pay they enjoy - much of the word 'feel', rhetorical word - the officers, the officers, the SPO, the ODA - will not change. They do not reduce their wages by one cent. From there on, on the basis of the new special payroll, which will come and talk from now on, i.e. when we talk about the officers of the School of Hope, I say it to you like that - we are talking about those who will come out after four years and the special arrangement that remains to be seen in full, predicts...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u113	Next week?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u114	After four years...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u115	Next week will we see her?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u116	Now, the Treasury knows that, Mr. Loverdos. I'm telling you mine.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u117	Is it in the law that comes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u118	I don't know. And from there on, we won't have any reductions, or it'll be minimal, in some, we'll also have increases. Be careful, then, don't say things easily. The last thing I would like to say is this. Look at that. I read the news, and as a lawman I can't understand. The Court of Auditors shall operate on a Plenary basis on the basis of either questions or laws. He doesn't concentrate and make a decision because he's here. So I'm waiting to see what this thing is. That is why this procedure is not being done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u119	Could have a plan for the Ministry...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u120	I'm saying, I don't know. That's why I'm either asking questions or laws. But here I must stress this and in relation to a tension that has arisen: so much pain on the part of the Anti-Population side, because it has now opened a visible road to end the Memorandum Period? That is the main issue. Would you like me to get you an example? Last year, what were we talking about and what was the opposition saying? That - look - there will be a cutter and the cutter at the beginning of 2017, because you won't get any of what you say, it will also create new cuts. What did we actually have? Give us six hundred thousand pensioners and a dynamic that takes us out of the memorial period. Saying whether in the summer of 2018 the Memorandum will be completed does not mean that the effort will be stopped so that the country can be reconstructed at two levels and marked by two levels, one being productive reconstruction and the other being fair redistribution. These two together are what we call fair growth. This thing won't stop. Look at that, during the period of "funny" the cheap loan money was what brought us to the memorial period. Because I don't forget what I said in 2000. The case of 2000 or 2002 or 2005 or 2007 was not good. It wasn't a nice period. This period was the result of the overcompensation of the country. For everyone? Well, not for everyone. Those who won were the ones who overcrowded the country. And we have three pieces: the banking interests of the bankers, the interests of the ministries and the political interests of the reproduction of power. These were the three main issues. We as a government assume a responsibility, and that responsibility will be brought to fruition, and that responsibility will be brought to Parliament. There will also be an integrated debate there, but there will also be an integrated debate within society. After completing this road, the Civic Opposition and another part of the Opposition will remain until the exit from the memorial to the next election in 2019 in the role of the reporter. Because a political proposal cannot be made, it has nothing to do with Critical Opposition. I fear that it will go into a process of strategic deadlock, which, of course, is how it will resolve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, too. The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence is closed: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway on cooperation in the field of defence equipment, systems and services". Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u122	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u123	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u125	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u126	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u127	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u128	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u129	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u130	Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Creation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway on cooperation in the field of defence equipment, systems and services’ was accepted by a majority, in the first instance, of articles and all of them, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u132	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. I have the honour to inform the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament under Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 "Tenical Responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case on 9-5-2017, a criminal case for the former Minister of Health Mr. Mavroudi Voridis. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-10-S1-commons.u133	With the consent of the House at 11.06 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 11 May 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
