ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: 'Amendments to Law 2725/1999 (A'121) and other provisions'. The above draft law was characterised by the Government as an urgent one, and the competent Permanent Committee on Formats Affairs accepted by a majority as an emergency, in accordance with Rule 110 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 22 June 2017 that the draft law should be discussed at a single meeting on the principle of articles and amendments. I would like to inform you that, although they took FEC yesterday, the changes in Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which are slightly reduced - but which are reducing - the speaking time, both the rapporteurs and the Members of Parliament, at my own initiative because last night the FEC was taken - will be held today in accordance with the old Rules of Procedure. Therefore, the time remains what you know, namely the rapporteurs and special speakers, have fifteen minutes, the Parliamentary Representatives twelve minutes and seven minutes, which will be registered. This means, regardless of whether the bill is urgent, that as soon as Mr Constantine goes up to Step and until Mrs Karamanlis comes down from Step, any colleague who wants to sign up can be registered after the electronic record system has been opened to take the floor when the order comes. All parties have, as far as I can see, sent special speakers, rapporteurs and parliamentary representatives. So we're ready to start. I suppose I have your unanimous agreement on the proposal I have made to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u2	So I now call on the SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Constantinea, to step in.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. We are now in Parliament to talk about the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport concerning amendments to Law 2725/1999 and additional provisions. The proposed project, made up of sixteen articles, is attempting to solve problems that are agitating sport. Mostly, it aims to normalise the everyday life of the athletes involved and simplify procedures for their operation. In particular, Article 1 of the draft law amends Article 24 of Law 2725, in order to legally shield the convening and establishment of the Statute of the General Assembly of the EAW, in accordance with its Statute. Here we give space to align ourselves with FIFA's and UEFA's statutes, because, with the pathogens that the Hellenic Football Federation had had for so long, it was not in line with the international federations and we saw what was happening. In Article 2, paragraph 4 of Article 29 adds the special athletic recognition of Article 28 to the Athens-based Sports Federation of Nephropaths and Transmitters, a member of the World Federation of Transmitters and the European Transmitter Sport Federation. I would like to say here that we had called these bodies and the Paralympians and they were in agreement. And it's a great vindication for these people and for their socialisation and for everything, as it's a sensitive group that works a lot. In Article 3 of the draft law, in order to regulate technical and practical problems relating to the issue of the fan card, an extension of the period of entry into force of the relevant provisions shall be granted. In particular, it is defined as 31 December 2017. The government in the past year tried to do something, which has not been happening for thirty years and has been on all the stadiums of violence. He tried to fix the health card. We are giving this extension for practical reasons, which were there, and we call on the international federations to tell us the model that exists outside, so that we can all try to improve the situation together so that there can be real fans, but also to check the ground. In this respect, I would like to say that there will be a problem in the middle of the day. We hope that the foreign federations will help us, as we asked for FIFA and UEFA assistance, in order to resolve a timely problem. Continued with Article 4 for sports facilities, I will say that Article 56A of the Law is amended. 2725/1999 and place a landscape in the license of sports facilities. We divide them into categories, common sports facilities and special sports facilities, depending on their nature, size, capacity and category of the games they host. Secondly, it is defined as the procedure for the inclusion of sports facilities in categories, whether they fall within the General Secretariat of Sports, or in the municipalities of the State, or in social and private sporting areas. As far as Article 4 is concerned, we have also heard proposals from the Democratic Integration and from the River. Unfortunately, the municipalities did not come to tell us their proposals too. Here's the Minister. We can help in this direction, so that there are problems, that corrections can be made. Article 5 adds, after Article 56A of Law No.2725/1999, Article 56B, which expressly states the requirement for the authorisation of any sporting area or sporting area, other than those covered by the provisions of Article 32, to fulfil the necessary safety conditions for athletes and spectators. The authorisation shall be granted to the management of the sports establishment or the body to which it belongs, on the basis of the category of establishment and the method of authorisation, described in detail for each subcategory. The license is defined as sports that can be hosted, as well as the maximum number of viewers, which may be present per section. The authorisation may be temporary, provided that, within a specified time horizon, the shortcomings making it temporary are restored. The procedures for amending the withdrawal of an authorisation shall be laid down in Article 5. Finally, a two-month period is set for the validity of this Article. All of this, following the proposals of the opposition parties, we can discuss them. I believe that the Ministry of Sports, after yesterday's committees, has put them in such a process. The procedure for compulsory setting-up of the Adequacy Audit Committee is very important, since the Committee has the following responsibilities: firstly, the control of all kinds of sports facilities with regard to ensuring that the necessary safety conditions for athletes and viewers are met. The possibility of emergency checks is given. Secondly, checks on the possibility of uninterrupted attendance to the sports establishment and evacuation from the spectators. Thirdly, the monitoring of the existence and functioning of the minimum necessary medical and health equipment and of the general static resistance of the buildings. The Committee's findings will also determine the course of authorisation. This Article shall enter into force on 1-1-2018. Under Article 7 of the draft law, Article 56D is added to Law 2725, which expressly prohibits any sporting meeting, where the user of the sporting establishment has not obtained a licence, so that there are no such events, such as events without a licence. Within the meaning of paragraph 56D, the conditions for granting such a licence shall be indicated either in the case of joint sports facilities or in the case of special ones. The same goes on with Article 8. They're altering the fields. We discussed the same in Article 9. Let's go to Article 10 of the draft law. The time from which the new sports anonymity company, set up for the same sport by the same founding club of the subordinated person, is explicitly a successor to all its obligations in general. At the same time, it is clarified that this arrangement does not apply to public limited companies that had been subordinated before the start of the 2016-2017 competition period, for good reasons. And that is what we are all agreed on, from what we understood from the debate in the committee in the last few days. Let's go to Article 11. It simulates the non-profit-making community under the name “SPECIAL OLYMPICS INTERNATIONAL HELLAS”, a member of the World Federation “SPECIAL OLYMPICS INTERNATIONAL”, recognised by the General Secretariat of sports clubs. The same example - and quite rightly so - was followed by the New Democracy and the PASOK in two cases. We're doing the same thing for this car crew in basketball. Following suggestions from the rapporteurs to the committee and the bodies that have come, we have all agreed. Article 12 gives the possibility of continuing to exploit the Olympics appointed to the public by posting either the General Secretariat of Sports or the bodies implementing the Olympism Dissemination Programmes. It's what all the athletes were asking for. There was a debate in committee. We think that's very good, too. Article 13 recognises the State's offer of coaches and athletes who won a medal in Olympic or Paralympic matches which do not have a licence to practice a coach's profession and do not enjoy the relevant privileges and rewards provided for in the existing legislation. They're the Olympics. Not to mention names like Mrs. Korakaki's father. There are many other people who honoured the colors of the National with Olympic medals. Unfortunately, either from the federation that didn't have coach schools or for other reasons, these people didn't seem anywhere. We also regulate this situation and restore one, say, injustice for these people. Article 14 of the proposed draft law provides for the operation of a gym in hotel establishments, aimed exclusively at the tenants of the unit and under the specific conditions of the proposed regulation on the square and stay of the tenants. There is an end to it - and in the committee where the hotel business people have come to agree on it - so that the conditions for all the gymnasiums in the hotel are set. Article 15 of the draft law seeks to repay compensation for the operation of the Special Observatory of Observers of the Observatory and of the Professional Sports Committee referred to in Article 77 of Law 2725/1999 for the year 2016. They bear the budget of the Ministry of Culture and, in particular, the Ministry of Sport. We pay those people that were unpaid. Minority parties have said a few things about committees. We agree in this context to see and evaluate IAEA and these people on what criteria they are entering there. Unfortunately, we have received a situation in IATA, which is the only observers of the state who write about the field incidents. We hope and are in cooperation with the Ministry so that a regulation can also be put in place for the evaluation of the committee and those people who go and make their reports on the ground. We are restoring an injustice in the fact that these people have not been paid for so many years, because the finances of the Ministry of Sport are now better than the previous ones. Thank you and I will come back to my dentistry, with the real debate on sport, beyond the sixteen articles in the bill to which I referred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u4	Mrs Anna Karamanlis, rapporteur of the New Democracy, Member of Athens, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the main core of the draft law under discussion is Article 1 concerning the convening of the general assembly of the ETUC and, unfortunately, it is another incident at the institutional catastrophe of the government in sport, the government which is permanently legislating with urgent and urgent legislative'shock-flashing', fragmentary, ruptured. Since the codecision of Mr. Kontonis' urgent procedure, we have come to Mr. Vassiliou's own particular purpose in order to meet the General Assembly of the OSH. And like this, Minister, you have come to legislate with a horizon of twenty-four hours. For the first time in the history of Greek sport, there is this chaotic difference between a party's programme and the government's policy. Mr Constantine, rapporteur of the draft government bill, appeared in favour of the mere analogous to the election system of the OSH. "To finish with the "dinosaurs" that rip football" supported and tabled amendments, together with seventy colleagues of the SYRIZA, who, of course, have no suspension of voting in the completely opposite direction today. Or we no longer see 'dinosaurus' or 'dinosaurus' become our friends! I give the floor to the President-in-Office to reply in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Anna Karamanlis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] While in your programme you are talking about increased representativeness, to vote for all five thousand unions of the U.S., now you are turning, according to the orders of the international federations, into shapes of other times, which you themselves have denounced as times of interacting and corruption. I'm presenting the SYRIZA Program in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Anna Karamanlis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] For the first time, there is such impressive differentiation in the positions and works of two Secretarys of Sports in the same government. It was your predecessor who legislated that the NCA would operate on the basis of the Constitution and the existing legislation, harming the self-employed. You are going for the second time, after the amendment on the representation of the ILO, to degrade it. You are clearing out the law of the short thread and you are completely backward from the positions you had a few months ago, and unfortunately, there is so much contradiction between your announcements and your events, Mr Vasileidis. I would remind you here, in this Chamber, of the electoral system of the WEU: 'For us the enlargement of the electoral base is a key point.' I make your statement in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Anna Karamanlis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] And today you are legislating to exclude the NCA from the law and its operation on the basis of the statutes, even in instalments. And let us not fool ourselves, you have long gone the ground for a electoral system far less representative. That is not what anyone says and it is politically consistent. You are also trying to convince us that Greek football has jumped forward. This enthusiasm, of course, does not seem to be shared by the fan world, who still has turned your back on sport rather than unfairly. A retrospective of what happened in the final of the cup and in the last games of the championship can give you an explanation. You presented us yesterday as a great conquest of the assistant referee. I would refer you back to my colleague Mr Constantine, who said that the arbitrators have been unpaid for months this year and wondered how we would put new people when those who already exist cannot be paid. I give you Mr Constantine's statements on the referees for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u6	Madam President, yesterday I told the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u7	Aren't your statements, Mr. Constantine? Are they the neighbor's statements?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u8	Don't ask Mr. Constantine.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u9	Yesterday I told the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u10	Obviously. That's what I testify for. Don't get upset.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u11	Leave Constantine. Tell me about the ten articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Constantine, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u13	Don't get upset! Now let's see what the president of the NCA said...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u14	Mrs Karamanlis, listen to me. Your questions will be addressed through the President and not...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, I was talking about the bill. I want the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u16	Leave 'em on staff', Mr. Constantine.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u17	Tell us about the ten articles of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u18	Mr Constantinea, I have not given you the floor, and secondly - Mrs Karamanlis has listened with religious devotion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u19	I shall ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u20	Good. You will respond to your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u21	I was talking about the bill, not about the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u22	Do you hear what I'm saying? For the last time! It's a parliament, it's not television windows! I'm saying that to everyone!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u23	I ask for the floor on staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u24	Good. If we agree, we hear. When the time comes, take the word and answer! Carry on, Mrs Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u25	Mr President, I am simply doing my job by using the statements made by fellow Members in committees, channels or radios or in their interviews. I have the right to use their statements, what they have done themselves. It's not on staff. I don't blame it. I'm saying what my colleague said. Now, let's see what the president of the PDO, Mr Ross, said yesterday in committee. I hope we have no telephone intervention. "In about six months that we are, there is a suspect group for stunned games for nineteen times, another group for fourteen times, another group for four or five times." Who's responsible for this? Any international conspiracy? I put it to the Minutes, ladies and gentlemen. [[At this point, the Member, Anna Karamanlis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In the past, the reduced representation of associations in the NDP has led to manipulation in the federal work. Today it's just a trick. The success story in football is well known and it no longer moves anyone or the vague wishing that we should look forward. We will agree, Minister, that we must look forward, but how? Immediately, honestly and consistently, without undoing ourselves and without launching communal straddles for temporary benefits. I must once again refer to the long-standing and afflicted sporting law. "They took him, brought him back and turned him around," says a proverb. You're all announcing him, and he's all gone missing. I did not even get into the process of gathering your statements on when it will be announced, when it will be discussed and when it will be voted on, because I should have come here with a wheelchair. Instead of that, for a comprehensive and coherent plan, you are bringing part of the legislative adaptations to the logic of'salamation', such as the current one and the one that will follow for the NRA, after the adoption of its statute. Why don't you do it now? So the "hot potato" out of your hands and go to the federation? The New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, fully respects the independence of the NDP. But it cannot reward the inconsistency of the government in another area. It cannot applaud the logic of 'other than I do', and therefore it cannot vote in favour of this provision, which concentrates and symbolizes this culture of the people in power. I am passing to Article 3 and the mandatory Fans' Card or, otherwise, one of the shortest jokes in Greek sport, because it now touches the limits of philosophy. It is being extended and practically becoming inapplicable, which you once advertised as the answer to violence. May I remind you, Minister, what did you say last December during the debate on the amendment, which gave the previous extension to the application of the measure? "This is the last time that this extension is given. We have assured that by 31 March we will be ready. In any case, the new season will begin with all safety requirements." I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Anna Karamanlis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In your radio interview on April 12th: "We are almost ready. It will be compulsory for time.' Now invoke the working party with UEFA. You could start implementing, Minister, both in the course or in the next season, to incorporate expert comments. It would signal a reaction to the growing phenomenon of violence and possibly have some effects. The inertia and inertia, in other words, will yield more in the mid-term, while the incidents of violence are increasing and we have experienced them recently in football and basketball? Are there other reasons? I wish we were disproved, but we predict that you will probably find it difficult to vote for a new extension, completely depreciating the measure and eliminating your credibility. For Articles 4 to 8, which relate to the categorisation and licensing of sports facilities, we said that it is in the right direction, but there are ambiguities and sloppy. We have proposed that you go back to sports law - no one knows when - and after a wider consultation has taken place. We therefore vote'representations' in these articles. I will say that we agree with the articles in the bill, which provide for the recognition of the Sport Federation of Nephropaths and SPECIAL OLYMPICS as sports clubs. Article 10 has to do with the debts of the groups, which are demolished into an amateur category, and which are put into liquidation. By setting up these groups, you will be allowed to create a new company to go up to a professional category without burdening all the burdens of the old company. This is a provision which has given us a great deal of trouble. As we have pointed out in committee, we do not overlook the fact that initiatives have been taken to set up new OSCEs that breathe health and an honest effort is being made to create teams built on solid bases. In today's paradoxical Greek football, stirred by morbid situations and can be used as a vehicle for other interests, health is the dominant demand, which is why we are not going to stand in the way of such efforts, when they are actively supported by local communities and certainly does not stop the Greek public claiming the dues. However, a red line must finally come, Minister, which will be observed this time, because, as we have pointed out, the world of football is not an angelic one. There are not only healthy initiatives. There are also those who caradokunes to find a legislative void to slip out of their obligations or to load them to third parties. You must not send a message that the implementation of the laws is relevant and that appropriate accesses are all settled. Such tactics "Mavroyaluro" do not offer good services to sport. You must make it clear that the law will not be a tire that we will stretch and gather, depending on what suits us. There will be a framework of rules which will be observed unregulated and will not be converted into a rag, which every year will be erased lines and new ones written. As far as the two amendments concerning sport are concerned, the lightness with which we are dealing with an important issue, such as the health card, with a last-minute parliamentary amendment, is really wondered. Don't tell us you don't know, Mr. Vasiliadis. I don't know if your contact with the Secretary-General of Sport is problematic. However, there are websites with good information which have been announced for two days and, if anything, the two amendments had to be discussed in the two committees that we have made. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Anna Karamanlis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I will no longer stand up to these tacticalisms, which may be related to your inner-party, and I will stand up to the essence. The amendment has positive elements, as the current provision speaks of a health card. In this way, the medical attestation has prevailed on the back of the athlete's sporting status card, i.e. two in one. The result of this is, every year, just a stamp and signature for the health of the athlete, without proper examination. So it is good to separate the card and the health card. However, we have the following comments: First, the current provision has a verse, as added by Law 3708/2008, according to which each athlete’s health card includes in detail all preparations allocated to him. This provision had a double purpose: firstly, to know the person who will give first aid to an incident which will happen to the athlete if he takes some medicine on a permanent basis and, secondly, to make it clear whether the athlete takes some medication in case of doping checks. We consider it necessary that the mandatory content of the card also includes medical devices, which may be awarded to the athlete. Secondly, the cost of issuing sports and health cards is shifted to the federations. Colleagues who tabled the amendment should know that in most sports already they pay the clubs themselves, transferring their costs to athletes and their parents. By this arrangement, the federations will either rise up, failing to cover the costs or the law will not apply in practice, and clubs and athletes will now pay twice, both for the sports status card and the health card. Of course, we cannot vote in favour of an amendment tabled 'on the foot' and without the necessary consultation, let alone a draft law on sport, which we had the time to discuss. With regard to the amendment on the licenses for athletes, let us say that the government itself has already changed this provision twice in two and a half years. I say this in order to understand your rough and fragmentary way of legislating. As a New Democracy, we consider that a hundred and fifty days' leave a year, without counting on participation in qualifying meeting and participation in their own games, is an exaggeration and it makes sense to turn a part of society towards athletes. In any case, you cannot decide in this clipboard way without the athletes' representatives explaining their needs and without knowing how many athletes it is. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy has demonstrated that it is also in the interest and perspective of Greek sport in this bill. We have told you, Minister, that sport goes beyond political differences and must lead to shocks, which is why we supported some of the articles in the bill, which we evaluated positively. Unfortunately, we would not be able to do the same in the case of the article on SOS, because it symbolizes your inconsistency, because it marks a policy that has kept the Greek football at point zero, which has deepened even more its credibility and forced it to a memorial of duration, with the break of Grexit always flying above our heads and, finally, because the goal cannot be to change 'grass'. The aim of all of us must be to ensure that there is no room for 'grain'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u26	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Constantine...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u28	Seven times he said the name "Istanbul". I have to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Constantine, listen. Because I know the Rules of Procedure from the outside...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u30	Seven times he said the name "Istanbul".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u31	Calm down, please. I answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u32	From political culture I never mentioned the name "Karamanlis".
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Constantine!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u34	It can't go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u35	Mr Constantine, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, there is a staff when reference is made to a person with a designation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u36	He described me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u37	No, he didn't characterize you. He invoked you in your statements he submitted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u38	Good, to invoke the statements they were talking to the phones, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u39	So write everything you have for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u40	...to see what one was saying and what the other one was saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u41	You're not telling me, Mr. Constantine, do you want me to apply the Rules of Procedure? I'm warning you for the last time!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u42	I've never mentioned the name Caramanli.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u43	I'm warning you for the last time!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u44	I'll see you in dentistry. We'll talk 'cause you did the same on two committees.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Sevastakis, please explain to your colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u46	Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u47	I'll see you in dentistry. I'm sorry! That concludes the matter, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u48	"They lifted the legs to hit the head." Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u49	None of the non-microphones in the Minutes are written. So listen, there are sixteen colleagues. That means...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u50	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Kelles!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u52	Yes, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u53	You're a vibrant! But calm down now. This means that, having taken a time-consuming time-consuming view of the prototypes and, if there are no pointless holidays, in six hours' comfort, with the speakers, the bill is completed. As I know that there is the so-called contested amendment, I believe that in seven hours of maximum we can finish. So, about five to finish, as long as there are no unnecessary holidays and no substance-free debates. I would like to ask all of you, both spontaneous and impulsive, and the rest of us, to go together. The two rapporteurs spoke well in their time. Let's go like this and keep going. We proceed with Mrs. Hara Kefalidou, a special patron of the Democratic Partnership. Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u54	Mr President, is there any agreement with the Government on when the Minister for the Interior will come?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u55	No, but whether there was or not, the Bureau decides when to give it the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u56	To give him the floor, he has to come here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u57	We said that the rapporteurs and speakers should first be heard by the bill and, if it has come, after the Minister who will speak or if the Minister wants to give him his position, we will give the floor to the amendment in question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u58	Maybe the Minister can talk too. The government is represented.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u59	Okay. Now you know, Mr. Voridis, that this won't happen. Here, Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as stated in the explanatory statement, the present draft law regulates issues aimed at resolving important issues of sporting players, even in fragmentation. Is he doing it? Not in depth and not enough. Once again, the attempt to settle necessary issues, such as permits for establishments, licenses for competitions, etc., is selective and with the look towards the elections, whenever they are made, SPECIAL OLYMPICS, Olympics. So to a certain extent, urgent loose ends are being sorted out, which unfortunately became urgent because this is what the Ministry's leadership has chosen. When problems drag and reach 'once one', it is logical that everything should become urgent. We have said, however, that from the normal practice of the government at the end, no one can escape. This, of course, concerns the provisions relating to the WEU, these and only. All the others who have pierced, we wonder what urgency they have in order to justify circumventing the consultation procedure. What really bothers you in the normal parliamentary procedures and you are systematically trying to circumvent them? What is the point of omission for comments and comments from the interested parties, which you have seen in the process with the bodies how useful and essential they are in the preparation of the bill? We are entering the articles: Article 1. You are digging the Contonis Act firmly and methodically, which, anyway, has become a rag, because the planned general meeting of the EVO must take place, opening the way for the election process, so that the Greek teams can participate in the European cups. In order to pass, Minister, the degradation of your previous sport law, quietly and in fines, you have decided to cut it into small pieces and serve us every time, depending on the context. It is admittedly a lot more intelligent, but how effective it is will be, especially when forgetting forgotten in the drawers of the General Secretariat of Sports, the law which has been in consultation for a long time, and you continue to legislate fragmentally and manually. We expect, of course, to see where this will end up, hoping that what you do is agreed with FIFA and that it will lead somewhere. What the government thinks and what its overall position for football is today, we hope to hear it from you. Article 2: It concerns the athletic recognition of the Federation of Nephropaths and Transplanters and it is a wonder why, such an important issue, such as the granting of sport recognition to a Federation of Sports Associations of Sports, for reasons of equality, becomes so superficial, fragmented and handmade. Obviously, we are not opposed. We agree, but we also express the need to complete this initiative, because, as the ILO rightly pointed out, the granting of sport recognition to a federation by law creates problems in cases of revocation. So, questions: What's next? Is there going to be a lift, like in the other federations? Will the conditions be checked? How'd you plan that? Why not amend the article with the exceptions of the unions required to recognise this federation? Article 3: It's the famous fan card. We are not even standing here. Another extension, because ultimately, is the shortest joke on the stadiums. In fact, the expression has been patented for everything that is said and not done: 'Like the card of Contonis'. What more can anyone say? We're talking about measrotragamy! Minister, in Articles 4 to 8 it really is right that the Government should categorize sports facilities according to the type of sports installation, but this is also a fragmentary one and 'on the foot'. Why all this rush? We all recognise the need to regulate the issue, but the specific provisions are succinct, without a plan, without philosophy and direction, and we think that the parties involved will be confused. Instead of giving a solution to the problems, they create extra problems. The same shall apply to the provisions relating to the method and duration of the authorisation by the Aptitude Control Committees. We have asked you a series of questions and proposals in committee. Let me briefly mention them in plenary. First, why different durations depending on the category? Every year this means that new documents will be required and this will trouble the parties involved. Secondly, will the General Secretariat of Sport play the role of the operator of the National Register of categorisations and suitability permits for sports establishments? Is that the targeting? Our proposal is to have this national register, since all the documents are finally notified to the General Secretariat of Sports, and the categorisation needs to be clarified: the municipalities for municipality, regional regions - today you are putting the municipalities to do so - and the General Secretariat for Sports for nationalities. Thirdly, it is good that the region issues a fitness leave and a match permit. However, there is a strong concern about how timely the transfer of files from decentralised administration to the regions will take place and whether the time periods provided - are two months for the adoption of ranking decisions - are sufficient. Fourthly, should the accusations not be constantly changed? Every year, the charges may change everything. What are you gonna do? Our proposal is that the installation be categorised based on its technical characteristics rather than on usage. It would be more understandable to categorise only their kind, size and capacity and all of these with a single approach and any additional requirement that be made according to the activity or category of racing they host. Fifth, why would an installation, if it has the standards for higher category racing, take the lowest? Six, in the small categories, everything begins and ends with the mayor's decisions. I mean, here we'll have the mayor owned, checked and controlled. Isn't that a problem? Seventhly, while you are asking for permission and you are even analysing many cases in common categories, the special categories such as carving centres and ski resorts, we see that you are going through them with great ease. For example, while a basketball court is required in Drama, you do not do the same for a permanent rowing facility in which international struggles will be conducted. We believe that special accusations should also be authorized. Eighth, the municipality should continuously monitor changes in the category of championships, and this involves a burden and greater bureaucracy. Ninth, if there are seven different categories in a municipal sports complex, which will likely be changed every year, what about the license? Our proposal is that when there are groups, the highest committee, namely the region, should be authorized. Finally, paragraph 6 of Article 5 tells us about a CSM which will specialise all authorisations, while below you legislate by specialising in Articles 6, 7 and 8. Articles 9 and 10 are going through them on the road. Article 11 applies to the uniformity of the Special Olympics with those recognised by the General Secretariat of the sports clubs. It's a big deal. This is where the Special Olympics provision has been formulated. It is well known that this club is not sporting, but in order to be able to benefit, we are moving forward with this particular arrangement. However, we consider that by assimilating the special Olympics, which provide important and recognised social work, with a sports club, you are limiting their ability to move wider and more flexible. Our proposal is to say the simplest, that the Special Olympics can be sponsored for their sports activities by the General Secretariat of Sports. In Article 12, the regulation on our Olympics is very positive, since the bodies from which they are seconded do not take advantage of them in such actions. We really think that their offer, especially to young children, is great, is important, is irreplaceable. Article 13 deals with a disgusting, thorny issue concerning the selective award of a full-time coach's diploma. Let me tell you that, however valuable it may seem, especially when there is a link with the Olympic medals, it is so problematic that it is being implemented. It is understandable, understandable, that we want to honor and facilitate these people who give their souls to support our athletes. I myself - and I say this again - have one more reason to want it, having full knowledge of the struggle, the difficulties and the enormous effort and the offering of the father of our Olympian, Anna Korakakis, who also happens to be Draminos. But I wonder if that's the right way to do it. And I wonder why, while the license is granted for a category A profession, you haven't even regulated the charges. We must therefore find a legal person, not only in substance but also in its base, a way of facilitating and honouring the efforts of these people. They're not asking for favors. They need and deserve the state's provision, so that they can do their job, and we believe that this provision as you suggest opens up issues. Optionally, I will put you some: How is it defined as a trainer who has no license to practice? Says the athlete? How does a athlete train by a non-trainer when both the club and the federation are obliged to have? Although this has many technical difficulties, we will dare - and we have already done so in the committee - to table a proposal, making a real contribution to finding a solution. Our proposal, therefore, says: In persons who, throughout the Olympic year, from 1 January to 31 December, were exclusively engaged in the training of athletes who acquired an Olympic medal in the Olympic Games or Paralympic Games who were not authorised to engage in a professional training of the above athletes or who had not made an announcement to engage in a profession of trainer in the sporting sector of the above-mentioned athletes, it is exceptionally possible to proceed with the announcement of an occupation in the next year, which will be deemed to have effect from 1 January of the Olympic year. In the case referred to above alone, those persons may submit, instead of the School of Coaches of the General Secretariat of Sports, the required attestation of the annual exclusive coaching which they provided to the above-mentioned athletes. And, of course, this arrangement must have a date on which it is repealed. You said it's the end of the Winter Olympics, and we think it's reasonable. In Article 14 there is another rough provision for gyms of twenty to a hundred square meters. The proposed arrangement is not complete because it does not cover what is done with other sports spaces, for example swimming tanks, tennis, spaces of more than 100 square meters, etc. We may close a loose end, but the point is that we go through one end. What certificate and what check will they have? Should spaces not have hygiene and safety standards? Shouldn't there be proper staff, trainers, permission to practice? Article 15 speaks of the payment of compensation to the members of the IAEA, with whom we agree. Finally, for all these reasons, Minister, I mentioned to you so far and for some such failures, we insist that this draft law was not, but you have made it urgently, without any convincing reason, depriving him of the opportunity to regulate the serious issues of sport with sufficient clarity and justice. We are waiting for your initiatives in relation to the proposals we have tabled and in writing yesterday in committee and we expect to hear your opinion on the amendments that have been tabled. Thank you, Mr President, for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u61	You were consistent. The special speaker from the Golden Dawn, Mr Antony Gregos, has the floor. Here, Mr Grego, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Again, we have a bill with the usual 'democratic' urgency procedure and even a very serious bill on an issue that concerns both athletes and society in general. The problems that afflict the area of sport are too many and have too many social consequences: violence in the fields, doping, illegal betting, non-existence or a terrible situation in sports centres. What can we say here about Olympic real estate? It's a very long story, very complicated. And as I said about complexity, I would like to say that in the field of sport it is dominated in many cases like the others, i.e. corruption and misery. We've asked dozens of questions about sports issues. We are in contact with athletes of all levels and paralympians as well as sports clubs and clubs as well as federations. Most problems are known, but no government has so far, and of course neither do you have the will to deal with them. Our children continue to be on concrete stadiums and broken racquets or outbreaks, with many injuries and various other risks. Going with your family to a soccer place is a great risk. The economic situation of the country is a brake on any attempt to develop in the field of sport. In persuasiveness of all this, in the alands and cement courts, our country is making great athletes and is discriminated against in too many competitions. The upheaval of our national anthem always fills us with pride and shows that even a small country to an extent can conquer the top in the sporting sector. I say this to those who strongly support only professional sport and those who believe that money is a supreme value. Unfortunately, a lot of discrimination becomes politically exploited. We have infinite examples. In view of the institutions' positions and the way in which the government operates, we will vote according to the articles of the bill. There is no doubt that Greek football is severely ill. Unfortunately, we note with disappointment that the government does not understand sport as one of the basic social goods, with the benefits that can result from a well-organised sporting system as a model system, fills in stages and inflames the souls of fans for the Sunday celebration. What prevails is a total lack of planning and vision, anxiety and opacity, customer relations, business interests that require the application of their own cheques. The stage that Greek football composes is really bleak. There are complaints about suspicious transactions, strange committees and within them we also have terrible incidents of violence and decline. We see it every day and we witness such an incident. On this basis, the government responds with this bill, which once again vaporizes any hope of fighting interlocutory sport. It started with ambitious anti-corruption plans, and they were indeed expecting a draft law which would incorporate a set of provisions with strict measures for those who participate in the federations, with tough enforcement measures on the ground, banning illegal betting, but ultimately little of them. And only the UEFA exhibition that ranks Greek football in the last of the European map is enough to confirm the morbid situation of Greek football. But we cannot accept that UEFA or FIFA will be a sovereign. And here again, Minister, we demand that you denounce the use of the name "Macedonia" in the neighbouring structure. In professional sport, and particularly in football, the big players, client interests and party relationships are moaning. Football is a tank of votes and satisfying political and economic purposes. Under these circumstances, and the healthy part of sport and fans tends to disappear. Because by the provisions you enter you do not change from the present system that has been formed in Greek sport, we will state in principle that there are some positive articles and some articles we will vote against. Article 1 regulates issues of the convening, setting up and operation of the General Assembly of the Hellenic Football Federation, the Hellenic Football Federation. Here we return to the issue that I raised at the beginning of my position. The leadership of football is trapped in political games of disorientation and subjection and does not inspire almost anyone. On the contrary, it strengthens the disillusionment of the world and its removal from sporting spaces. Apart from its operation and on the basis of the dates, it should finally become the most infamous clearance. You were late once more and you left it again for the last minute. Article 2 gives special athletic recognition to the Sports Federation of Nephropaths and Transplanters. We are in agreement with all this, but it is not enough to solve the problems faced by athletes who are struggling with paralympics and athletes in general difficulties. Article 3 extends the time to start the application and use of the electronic fan card. As in the past, today, we are against electronic monitoring of fans. It recommends a brutal breach of personal data and offends the constitutional principle of protection of personality. Pretextably and simply invoke the argument about combating sport violence through the use of the fan card. The state in general and the police in general have the means, on the one hand, to suppress all forms of violence in sports spaces, on the other hand, to inflame the fans in a spirit that promotes sport. The reason why they do not prevent divergent behaviours is only to maintain the alibi of the electronic engraving. We recall that both VAT and AMCA are needed for this purpose, which is a sensitive personal given. Also, the fan card and the electronic ticket very little can contribute to the fight against violence, which we all condemn, because no fan ever uses the place the ticket records. Articles 4, 5, 6 and 7 are a series of provisions simplifying the procedures for classifying sports establishments and granting licences. Appropriate sports facilities are also set up, and the way in which they operate is laid down. The following question now arises here: to what extent is there to be effective control and not to be confined to formal approval? It is well known that there will be many problems and the usual unresponsibility in municipalities and regions. It goes without saying that safe sporting spaces are needed for everyone. To say here, Minister, I will also ask you whether the committees which are proposed to be set up to check the suitability of the sports areas should also consider whether the initial sports facilities have remained faithful to their initial design for sports which were asked to cover, namely, to examine what interventions were made in the gyms and what impact this had on the development of specific sports in the area. In Article 8 it appears that the author of the article has incomplete legal knowledge - we have also told the committee - and I am diligent in characterizing. What exactly does the phrase 'criminal persecution cannot be exercised and the person responsible is relieved of any punishment'? In any case, however, the operation of a sporting establishment that is not licensed constitutes an administrative infringement and as such must be dealt with and in no way challenged by any legal property, so as to have criminal interest and a prison sentence. In Greece we tend to criminalise administrative interventions as a whole, while they are two different areas of law. However, even if you join the sporting installation without permission in criminal offences, there is a misfortune in the three-month prison sentence and the 50,000-euro financial penalty. Articles 9 and 10 reduce the guarantee letter lodged by the OEMs; the payment of players and coaches shall be called into question. We need transparency and justice. And since we are talking about this, let us say that in the committee the Minister has spoken about equality, and that is exactly what every healthy fan of mind demands. Let us also say that this is also the cause of a number of violent incidents on the country's lands, without, of course, the rest of them being unresponsible, the media, factors and the well-known interests. In Article 11 the simulation of the non-profit-making ‘Special Olympics International Hellas’ with recognised sports clubs does not automatically solve the problems faced by athletes who have motor problems. It is not easy for people with disabilities to access sports facilities and sports clubs, clubs and any sports space to be able to deal with a sport. There is no organized mechanism from the state and most people with disabilities deal with sport from luck or because they love it very much. We're always next to them and we're supporting them. We support these fighters of the track and of life. Article 12 reintroduces provisions on the appointment of the Olympics to the public. First of all, we will agree that they should rightly be rewarded and granted some privileges to athletes who, with so many difficulties and with no government aid, managed to win a place on the platform. It is also a minimum recognition of the state, even afterward. What we want to say, however, is that these people, with so much specific knowledge of sport, could be exploited in schools, in sports clubs, in encouraging young children, instruction, in transferring their own knowledge and experience, which the state had deprived them. Article 13. Clearly we recognize the offer of coaches of athletes who won a medal in the Olympic Games that are not licensed to train. However, it should be borne in mind that there are the corresponding institutions that certify this licence. I'm talking about TECHA. Article 14. As we have said in committee, we have reservations, and we believe that the necessary standards must be available to operate organised gyms in hotel establishments. Clearly there must be. It's a demand for many tourists now. But, as I have said in committee, the safety of the athletics and the minimum surveillance of these sites is important. There are too many accidents in gym spaces caused by misuse of organs. The committees that you propose to set up for the control of the suitability of sports spaces, I believe, should also consider whether the initial sports facilities I told you before complying with these conditions. Article 15. Since the Standing Committee on Sports Violence, IAEA, has to bear up to EUR 61 000 the state budget, a quarterly report on its activities should be attached, in accordance with the principles of transparency and public information, so that there is no doubt about the work being done by the members of the committee. And this report is something that had previously been adopted and operated. IAEA members, depending on the participating matches, shall be paid and a sum which they are entitled to. The point is that even here they are members with party criteria, and they are not properly adapted. In addition, there is no information, training of the observers who are invited to record their comments from the competitions in an obsolete form. There are neither clear directives nor no seminars. As far as the rewards of the arbitrators are concerned, they are known to be unpaid by the seventh racing. The CCT had sent a letter to the SPO and to the Super League. The Minister knows about this. And it's not just the referees. They are also the assistants, they are the observers, and we have heard of a sum of EUR 1,000,000 in the end. And we wonder who this debt will be burdened with. As far as the amendments made to the articles are concerned, I will say in Article 21 that the ADM is the creation of Drica just before the fall of the PPA. Its purpose is, as the Minister said, to control the ports sold - so far the PPA and the PLTH. Again, however, the government is building a party state. Most of them, like the president, are party employees. Addresses will be set up, distractions can be made, recruitments. The purpose of the IAL is to monitor PPA and PLH, that is to say, what the port regulatory authority has to play. The President-in-Office of the Council recently, without informing anyone, brought the Conference of Presidents to replace its members with new members and completely randomly from any unrelated party. IAL will have three positions for its organic composition and will be charged with the budget of the Ministry of Island Policy. The right to secondment will also be granted by the Port Corps and by the Armed Forces. The annual expenditure is also estimated at EUR 51,000 from the establishment of the new organic units of IAL, in particular from the payment of increased remuneration to the Director-General for the treatment of costs. So there's gonna be a cost here. The sports area will continue to get sick unless appropriate measures are taken. It's not just gold medals in the Olympic Games or inter-challenge championships. It is also of value to amateur and local, because it is through that that future, great athletes come out. At the time when fat money is given to sports clubs of large categories, the respective children's championships begg for the essential items necessary. I want to make a recommendation to all clubs, especially football. Explore Greek athletes and do not let those who deserve to leave abroad. Our sport and athletes are a treasure that must be managed accordingly. It's culture and heritage that we all deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u63	Mr Emmanuel Syntakakis has the floor for a special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed draft law on the part of the government does not solve the chronic problems in sport and much more the amendments provided for in Law 2725/1999 neither exalt football nor fight corruption and strife. That is why, in principle, we are voting 'at present'. The JRC, we have said so in committee, does not underestimate any debate, which can contribute to the least to dealing with problems in the field of sport. As Law 2725/1999 has not solved the chronic problems in sport, on the contrary, there has been confusion and interests, since the criterion has been and remains the profit, so that any amendments to Law 2725, regardless of whether some of them are generally correct and we vote on them, will not eliminate the main business activity and the ownership of groups from business groups and are the matrix of these problems. For example, electronic ticket and e-cards are not actually going to smash the phenomenon of land violence. That is why we are also voting'representations' in the relevant provision in Article 3 for the postponement of the time for its implementation. We are concerned, however, that the electronic ticket and electronic card will objectively open the way to the violation of democratic rights and remove the confidentiality of personal data. The following provisions which we refer to and which we are voting on, I repeat, do not overturn the overall set. Such as Article 2, on the specific athletic recognition in the Federation of Nephropaths and Transplanters, Article 11 on the assumption of ‘Special Olympics’ and recognised sports clubs by the General Secretariat of Sports, Article 12 on the utilization of lympics by the General Secretariat of Sports, appointed in public, on the dissemination of Olympics, Article 13 on the licensing of a professional coach to Olympic coaches as a recognition of their offer and Article 15 on the reimbursement of the allowances of the Special Body of Observers of the IPCC and the Committee of Professional Sports for 2016. These provisions, which the Communist Party of Greece is voting for, do not even change the setting, are not even aspirin. And that's why? Because at the same time problems run at globe speed, sport shrinks for the people and youth, amateur unions grow, stadiums and swimming pools close, state subsidies to sport and federations fall and natural education at school shrinks. Not to say, of course, the even worse situation in special sport and the interrupted thousands of children staying in prison in their homes, precisely because the state has convicted them, for school sport, of the tens of public sports facilities, which are left to their fate with some of them becoming "filettes" for entrepreneurs. On the issue of authorisations, categories and penalties, from Article 4 to Article 8, we say'residents'. We are not saying 'no' in simplifying and speeding up procedures for the authorisations and suitability of sports establishments. Of course, the burden of the Adequacy Control Committee has always come to the events of the major events. But what about the hundreds of smaller or larger sports facilities in the country that are literally abandoned? You are transferring the responsibility of suitability permits to the regions and municipalities, to the Local Administration. Under what conditions, when sports centres are neglected, and when proper operation is required, staffing with staff, with brave, adequate government funding to support them? Who's going to charge all this? They will be imposed by the municipalities, i.e. by increasing taxation and fees. The state is completely relieved of this process. For us, for the Communist Party of Greece, the question is not that they pass to the local administration without resources and conditions, but that sport, as a social asset, should be and that it should be provided publicly and free of charge by the state itself and financed by the state itself, is taken exclusively into the responsibility of the municipalities. In your committee we made specific complaints about the OAS, the Liberty Stage in Heraklion, its Panghretio Stage, the Swimming Swimming, etc. We will, however, continue to do so because we have not received any answers on these issues. For example, in Heraklion, which has two closed sports centers, Patelion and Aorakia, they haven't taken a single cent since they were made and opened only when competitions are held, with some typified crumbs from here and there, and then a locker again. For the Panghretio Stadium, I will mention that since the time that it went into the municipality's responsibility from the Olympic Real Estate, there is an agreement on an annual grant of 400 thousand euros. So far, all these years, he also didn't get a single cent. There was a commitment by this government to financing the rooftop in the Pagretio Stadium that was damaged. No voice, no hearing. At the Freedom Stage there is an absolute abandonment. Even the main entrance of the stadium is closed, due to static problems of part of the wall next to the main entrance, it is not accessible. The scales are in a terrible state too. Tartan is also useless. The conditions through the stands, the locker rooms and the showers are extremely unhealthy and dangerous, with old and rusty equipment. At Heraklion's swimming pool, in the fourth city of Greece, it is the only fifty and the only public swimming pool. Who's going to be in this pool first? Who's going to be athletic? It's a real disgrace. Of course, the one that it has, two hundred and thirty - three hundred, is not enough, when hundreds of children are served daily and with tournaments every weekend. Third-world lockers, while a second small swimming pool is required and the funding is non-existent. I told you at first reading about the OECD. It happened last weekend that the pan-Hellenic swimming games were held. The spectacle of the games, of course, very nice, the sight of abandoning the facilities extremely hideous. Installations unstable, elevator not working, races to be conducted at forty degrees without air condition. A public, a state swimming pool, has actually been granted to private individuals. The national polo teams, basketball, volleyball, pay for the games. Teams to enter the OAS must pay rent. The Pool Federation, for example, pays 400 euros to cross the OAS. Every day, the CEEC pays 1500 euros for the Greek struggles. So a public good has now become a merchandise. In Article 9, ladies and gentlemen, regarding the reduction of the rate of guarantee required by the OEMs and their assimilation to other public limited companies, we are voting'residents'. Based on the PSAC, the basketball trade union, the Ministry must proceed to a series of arrangements that are requested by athletes and not just the guarantee letter. We are voting 'at present' because we very much fear that this 25% reduction to 5%, that is from EUR 100 000 to EUR 60 000, will ultimately be in the interests of businessmen and not athletes. In Article 10, we are voting 'at present'. It concerns the self-evident succession of the subordinated sports anonymity by the same founding club of the subordinated. Why? 'Cause he's leaving out all the previous times before 2016. And one question is that, because it does not cover all cases before 2016. In Article 14 we say 'no'. This article refers to the setting of a framework for the operation of gymnasiums within hotels. It is obvious that this is a photographic layout, with the pretext of the need to have a framework for the operation of gymnasiums at hotels. What's the real target? The real aim is to slowly concentrate the training area, the gymnasiums, the ones in the neighborhood, the hotel units and, above all, the major hotel units. We have said so in committee too. This argument, which was mentioned by the Minister but also by the hotel representative, that it will only be allowed for the tenants, obviously does not convince anyone, rather it does, because it is already an uncontrolled situation. To go to the tourist areas you are supposed to have no operating framework, but at the same time the commercials call in discounting procedures the simple cosmaki to go to the spas and gyms of the hotel. Ladies and gentlemen, I have left Article 1 last on the convening, formation, operation of the General Assembly of the NDP. Who, in truth, believes that FIFA's intervention in the PDO, which too serves traded sport at a global level and is burdened with similar and greater problems of corruption and complexity, will end. There is no business activity, which is not directly or indirectly linked to the interests of complexity and corruption. FIFA’s intervention through the Settlement Committee is essentially intended to refer to the business costs of competitors in the RU. The demand for resolution and clearance now proposed by the government, although it says that the conditions do not permit such a break, is not solved with recurring cuts and bakers, with old man-made materials, with either regularizations or with FIFA's arbitration and those so-called normalization committees. By rotating persons and the normalization committees for the management of a rotten, rotten building up to the foundations, sport is not saved, and indeed, by persons who have managed as expressors of this policy all these years and who have led to amateur sport and football to maritalism and financial impoverishment by abolishing these low subsidies yet. You could, if you would like, abolish the participation of Greek teams in all kinds of bets or gambling games, check the anonymous sports companies, the AOCs, the AACs from the Ministry of Development, do not have any funding from the State, whether directly or indirectly, to ban the lending of players between the same groups. The JRC has said many, it has tabled these proposals in Parliament as well. They haven't been accepted. Why? It is precisely because they are hitting what we call the uterus of the problem, which is business activity and the role of entrepreneurs in the field of sport. Sports for the Communist Party of Greece is social, educational, peaceful, cultural, is a right that children, young people and people must enjoy. It is a popular, inalienable right, which must be based on and economically strengthened by the state budget within the framework of a central pan-national planning, but that requires another government with socialized means of production, where sport will really be a social right and not a commodity. In these words, the JRC votes'residents' in principle and as I mentioned in the articles of this bill. Now, in relation to the amendments, there is no time. I think that we will be able to have a dialogue and, above all, a debate on the amendment, which concerns contractors to the local government agencies. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u65	Me, too, Mr. Covenant. We proceed with the special speaker of the Independent Greeks, Mr. George Lazarides. Mr. Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my comment on the bill, I would like to comment a little on the position of the representative of the New Democracy, who spoke about soccer diseases, but on the way in which he mentioned these pathogens, it was like these pathogens to be due to these two years that this government governs. Those pathogens in football...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u67	Two and a half years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u68	Two and a half years, of course, you are right, Mr President. Two and a half years, accepted. In football, however, pathogens are known to have a depth of many years. Not just years, decades. In particular, we, who are from the region - and I, in particular from Thessaloniki - have experienced these pathogens in our minds, because they all worked at the expense of the groups in Thessaloniki. I refer to Thessaloniki, because they were the ones who claimed the leadership of the Athens teams and I refer to the three groups of Thessaloniki, PAOK, HRAKLI and ARH. So we all survived this injustice from the Athens groups. Of course, my colleague is from Thessaloniki, she is a compatriot, so what I'm saying, she has lived on Thessaloniki herself. I am talking about the injustices, Ms. Colleague, that we lived on Thessaloniki and that were due to the way in which it was run and the whole structure we call football was built. And to be more specific: Can you imagine if the Koskottas phenomenon had taken place in a group on Thessaloniki? It would have disappeared completely from the map. As a group here in the centre of Athens, however, it was a phenomenon which should not have affected the group's course, because it was a president - it says - to a historical group. In the case of groups of Athens, other measures and other weightings apply. That's why I'm saying pathogens have a depth of decades. It is shameful how this has been structured and set up. Or go to the other thing with the referees, how they are judged, how they arbitrate and what consequences they are going to suffer when they wrong a group here in the center of Athens. And I'm talking about Panathinaikos, Olympiacos, AEK. When they are wrong, they are human error, when they are unfair to a group of Thessaloniki or the region, other measures and other weights apply. Excuse me, I made a mistake here. When a group of the establishment is wrong, either the Panathinaikos, Olympiacos or the AEK, they are punished by the most stringent procedure. But when a group is wronged over Thessaloniki or the region, this is a human error. However, this is something that we need to discuss at some point, namely the way in which this whole football structure has been built. This is why a phenomenon is maintained - we could even say illegality - which falls under the Criminal Code. To pass now on to the commentary of this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing a new bill that changes football and sport in general, amateur and professional sport. Many times, after all, we need to legislate and make amendments to existing laws, which will facilitate and improve situations. The need for his statement, however, in the form of urgency, is understood by a key reason, which is no longer the forthcoming exercise of the general meeting of the Greek football federation. As you know, since October, we have been in cooperation with FIFA and UEFA, so that we can move towards a normalisation of the situation, to a return to normality, with elections to the SGP within July and the hope and expectation of all to change something at last and, above all, to stop the controversial action of the administrative authorities of Greek football. Ladies and gentlemen, the self-sufficient has often been involved with the autonomous and therefore, with the illegality. Only the change of statute is left, and if everything goes well and the new statute is adopted, there will be a new initiative to restructure football, if necessary, a final provision for the football area. To sum up, therefore, I would like to say that the new article must be passed before 30-6-2017 and published in order to convene the General Assembly of the OSH and make its decisions. Apart from football, however, the draft law proposes a new framework and regulates issues that will solve major problems for players involved in sport. National sports infrastructures are categorised in order to obtain the relevant authorisation procedure. A categorisation of sports facilities according to the type of sports establishment, the whole spectators and the type of racing to be carried out in and the manner and duration of the licence by the respective suitability check committees shall be carried out. The Greek stadiums have a big problem with their licensing. For decades, temporary permits have been granted for land with extensions, with the authorisation never being permanent. That was because there wasn't a categorization that now exists. The standards are being regulated - and this is very important - but, above all, the procedures are being modernised and streamlined so that they are not time-consuming and bureaucratic and licences are issued quickly on a case-by-case basis. In order to develop the sport of disabled and disabled people, the legislator rightly provided for lower conditions for the creation of sports federations, as in this draft law, the sporting recognition of Article 28 in the Sport Federation of Nephropaths and Transmitters. This is a very important provision for these people. As far as the fan card is concerned, the postponement given is reasonable and acceptable, as this is preferable, rather than starting the championship and entering a new process and costs with a change in the context or its implementation. Also important provision, which we believe is correct, is the one which proposes to grant a professional licence to coaches to the coaches of people who took up the first to third place in the Olympic or Paralympic Games, who do not have a licence, that is to say, a professional licence for Class I coaches' profession for the sport in which discrimination was achieved. We had the paradox for them not to be recognized as coaches, on the one hand, and on the other, for those privileges that the law provides for coaches of athletes who bring great success to the country. Ladies and gentlemen, these provisions do not solve all the problems in the sport sector, but it requires cooperation and concrete proposals from the relevant bodies, as was the case during the committees, and it appears from the Minister responsible to contribute to this. Solutions are given to key issues that are of great concern to the Greek public, such as football, but also to those that are afflicting small societies, such as the licensing of facilities where our fellow people are sported daily. For this reason, but also for the other important provisions, the Independent Greeks support this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr. Lazarides. The floor is given by the Special Rapporteur of the Association of Central Banks, Mr Theodora Megalo-Economist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, in most cases we now come to the House to discuss a draft law in accordance with the urgency or urgency procedure. Obviously, today's debate is exactly the same in the same context. We have a draft law which only passed two days ago by the committee responsible, and we arrived on the day of its vote. Unfortunately, I have serious doubts as to whether it really constitutes an urgent procedure that could not be foreseen by the government, which was surprised. The Government has invoked the developments that are directly related to the SGP and for which the provision of Article 1 for the General Assembly of the SGP should be voted on within the days. I do not know whether the Minister's arguments are persuasive, that he was very recently informed about the suffocating times and therefore the urgent procedure in this House was indeed a one-way road. Of course, our suspicion may be that almost all the bills have arrived in plenary in exactly the same way and with the relevant excuses. In any case, it is important to deal with the substance of the legislation and to submit our comments to the individual provisions. Perhaps the main regulation of the bill is in fact Article 1, which is another corrective action in relation to the operation of the Greek Football Federation. Indeed, in recent years all of us have been well aware of the tragic situation in which Greek football has arrived, the endless decline and the stench that has led to extreme situations, the formation of procedural documents and, of course, an unprecedented situation within the Greek territory. If it is football as the most popular sport to unite us, to passionate us, but in a healthy way, and to attract us to watching it with joy, it has become an economic activity - not a sport that often reaches the limits of infraction and illegality. The government has, from the outset, made strong and heavy announcements to resolve football and change scenery. The Contonis Act brought several changes, many of which were violent. Today, the NCA remains in peculiar status, as the audit is still in the temporary management committee. With a provision which we are debating today, the way is actually opening up to the convergence of a general assembly in the EAW in order to begin the development of the antiquities. We even propose that the members of the board of directors in the NRAs have the incompatibility of being Presidents of their union. The Centro Association obviously supports every effort to substantially upgrade Greek football. We want to see again the glorious seasons of the sport and return football at the time when each family could come to the court with its children. Of course, the government with its operations so far has not shown us that the clearance in the football sector has actually been achieved. Under no circumstances can we talk about the absolute success of the government project. On the contrary, the phenomena of violence in the fields are a reality, even today. Also, as we have heard, the NCA is currently carrying a liabilities of EUR 13 million. So the problems are many and complex. We therefore remain vigilant about all this and we are monitoring developments to see whether there will be a definitive solution to the problems of football in the end. In relation to the articles in the bill, we can only agree with the athletic recognition of the sporting federation of kidney and transplanted, as part of the equal treatment of this category of athletes with chronic health problems. However, I cannot welcome the long delay in implementing the fan card, given that this card is a government announcement in order to help the situation on the ground. I think it is a failure of the Ministry to delay the entire application of the measure at least by the end of 2017 and, indeed, without having a full picture of exactly where the problem lies. In any case, we expect the government to keep at least its commitment to starting the "fashion card" from 2018 in order to see an improvement in the situation of football. On the other hand, we are largely in agreement with the changes made to the categorisation of sports facilities. It is intended that there should finally be one class in each sporting area, belonging to a particular category, for which the relevant municipality should obtain the appropriate authorization. We also agree with the provision that reduces the guarantee letter on basketball in the context of equality in relation to other sports, given that the representatives of the basketball players have also agreed. I now come to another matter. In recent years, almost every sport year, we have seen sporting anonymous companies - particularly football - go bankrupt, fall accusation and often lead to inaction. The debts of these companies are theoretically sought by the respective CEO. But, as we all know very well, most of the time they have made sure that they put in these positions mainly strawmen, so that the real responsible people who have often abused sporting money remain unscathed. The truth is that today's provision will very little help because it provides that since the same club is setting up a new sports company for the same sport, it will take over all the debts of the previous one. I imagine, however, that, in order to overcome this mob, they will simply make sure they establish new sports clubs and hide behind them. Now, as far as the move of the Olympics from other sectors to the public sector and their exploitation by the General Secretariat of Sports is concerned, this is indeed a reasonable move that will help to offer the greatest of these great athletes with huge experience, which so far remains unexploited. Also, of course, we agree with the upgrading and simulation of the non-profit association "Special Olympics International Hellas" with the sports clubs of the General Secretariat of Sports. The state must fully support people with disabilities and above all do everything in its power to ensure that these people - children or adults - turn to sport as an excellent way out of the problems of everyday life. The work of the Association "Special Olympics" is excellent and aims to inform the public and the disabled at every corner of Greece about sports events as much as possible. Obviously, we support every initiative that helps in their work. Now I'm going to another matter. There is a provision in the bill, with which we generally agree, but we have some objections to the way it is implemented. I am talking about the general exception to the grant of a licence to trainees' professions. For anyone who was a coach who won the Olympic medal, various issues arise, such as how one is practicing at the Olympic Games without any corresponding certification, and whether some additional conditions should be made in the arrangement, which is otherwise reasonable. Finally, I would like to make a reference to the amendment on cleaning contracts, which the Minister mentioned late last night. We are all experiencing the tragic situations of recent days, where the strike in cleanliness, together with high temperatures, have created an extremely dangerous situation for public health. Unfortunately, once again, the Ministry has delayed to admit that there is a serious problem and it has delayed giving a reasonable solution. In fact, I would like to mention that I personally tabled a timely question to the Minister on 20 March 2017. In fact, the Minister replied to this timely question after a month, on 24 April 2017. And I would like to read to you part of my question - which I shall be tabling for the Minutes - but also for the reply of the Minister. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mrs Theodora, is tabling the above-mentioned question for the minutes, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I read: 'I see that they are people who are entitled to their salaries, but also in such cases the Court of Auditors has refused to cover such funds when the renewal of fixed-term contracts exceeds twenty-four months. That's a fixed one. And, indeed, Presidential Decree 164/2004, known as the Presidential Decree of Pavlopoulou, laid down specific limitations and the conditions for a fixed-term contract to be converted into an indefinite period. Since then it has been stable to refuse the Court of Auditors' committees to approve payments when it comes to contracts that will exceed twenty-four months of successive work. This is a consistent decision of the Court of Auditors. Of course, the Ministry of Interior sent to the Decentralised Administration, as you said, the circular concerned, asking for the law to be implemented by any mayors who did not deliver the contracts or pay the workers. However, it remains the problem that mayors do not pay their wages, not because they do not have them, but because they are in the hands of the Court of Auditors, fearing they will be illegal. And they fear that they will then be accountable and will be found to have paid on their own initiative, since they do not have the assurance of the Court of Auditors and that the Court of Auditors will then take them to court. You have not made any final decision or circular and you will say: "I take it on my back. You pay.’ So I spoke with mayors and I was told that they could not be exposed because the recurring renewals of the contracts were converted into an indefinite period of time. And so the circular remains inapplicable. On the other hand, you must take the initiative. I move on to the reply of Mr. Minister, Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis. "We have done just to take the situation in our hands, making the appropriate legislative initiatives. From there on, there is no other possibility, on the basis of our institutional role on the part of the government, to do more. We and our political will and our institutional capacity have exhausted it. We therefore expect to see what will eventually happen on behalf of the Court of Auditors. This President-in-Office of the Council, and in no case did the President-in-Office refer to specific cases at that time, and there is, I repeat, no constitutional reference saying that 24 months is the maximum. However, from there on, these contracts, which were extended, at the start of their prolongation, had not completed the twenty-four months. Some of them along the way, during their prolongation, may have supplemented it, but that's no reason to stop in the middle. From that point on, I tell you that specific decentralised leaders have already been instructed to invite those mayors to refuse to prolong these contracts or to pay the world they have worked to comply with. And the mandate is to do what is foreseen under the law. Finally, I would like to say that the government has an increased sensitivity to the issue of contractors. And I am not only talking about the specific cases of cleaning workers and those whose duration of their contract has been extended until the end of 2017. I am referring to that sea, this globe of contractors - who are many thousand - who are employed either in the municipalities or in the public sector and are obliged to be a state - not only as current government - finally to give a solution to their hostage." I am presenting the above excerpts for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u71	Please, my colleague, close. Questions and answers are already in DENMARK.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u72	I would like your tolerance for half a minute, Mr President. Minister, you have not taken note of my question. But since there were so many legal voices stressing that there was an issue of unconstitutionality, should there not be an earlier mobilisation by the Ministry? Did you expect the situation to reach the unpredictable? Did you expect the garbage to arrive in the sky during a tourist season, not to be able to cross the University to go to the Acropolis? Is that where you expected things to come to Mykonos and Santorini? It's not possible! I told you since March and you replied in April. They called you lawyers. So, what were you waiting for? Now make sure you get through it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This is a sanitary bomb! Do you expect him to fall cholera? If you wait for this, what can I tell you? We will be placed and answered and then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u73	And the speeches of the special speakers with Mr. George Mavrotas from the Potami are closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. The main object of the bill is the amendments to Law 2725/1999, the famous "sport law" to sports facilities: categorisation, licensing, fitness check committees, race licenses. Things in the right direction are the ones that form the core of the specific bill of 15 articles. In our opinion, however, it has come as a matter of urgency and together, and without any amendments, which I shall be speaking about at the end of the day. In addition to the basic theme of sports facilities, other short-term, fragmented provisions are also included, some of which are legal provisions, such as the now established extension for the "fashion card". Every six months we give an extension. And all this, waiting for the sports bill we hear, but we don't see it. I shall begin with Article 1, which is perhaps the only urgency of the bill, to launch the lifting of the administrative deadlock in Greek football. Article 2 concerns the recognition of the Federation of Nephropaths and Transplanters. We agree without an asterisk. Sporting nephropaths and transplants is a part that needs impetus. In fact, these days are the world championship of nephropaths and transplanters in Malaga. In the third article we have the famous and well-established extension for the "fashion cards". Since August 2015, when Mr. Kontonis had announced it with several extensions, we went on March 31, 2017 and now we go on December 31, 2017, in the midst, of the season. I'll bet with the Minister a table at the House restaurant that we'll have another extension. In fact, I would ask that this be recorded in the Minutes, so that I can also be committed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u75	Are we invited, too?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u76	Don't you have a way to spend your time?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u77	So this lack of implementation of what we are voting on is the great scourge over the last ten years. Mr. Voridis, the fact that I'm making the table at the restaurant in Parliament shows my confidence that we will have an extension again! So we are legislating to be okay with the outsiders, but we are not applying to not breaking eggs with them. Articles 4 to 8, concerning the categorisation and licensing of sports facilities, believe that it is in the right sense. We just have some questions: Do we know how many sports facilities in the country are? Is there a record? Is there a record of sports facilities? And I don't only mean the sports facilities of the General Secretariat of Sports, but generally everyone. Why is this specific categorization in the bill? That is why we do not yet have any clear answers on how it came to light. That is why we have separate categories A1, A2, B1, B2, C2, on the premises, when dealing with these categories of licensing. In fact, for category A1, that is the smallest category, where we are talking about facilities of up to five hundred viewers in settlements below two hundred inhabitants, where they are only coaches and there are no competitions, in paragraph 2a of Article 5 you say that a responsible statement must be filed by the owner that no category has been posted. But that's not where there's no fights! In other words, there are some details that need some attention. In addition, clarification is needed in respect of national category matches. Who are these national-class matches? For example, a Greek-published championship game, which can be held in some area, is a national category. If not, why? And why separate local and amateur struggles from national charges? Category D 'closed facilities with up to a thousand viewers' - there are not even a few thousand viewers - or category E1, which has a closed installation with more than a thousand viewers, will not be passed by a fitness committee based on the bill. Fire safety etc. Aren't these installations going to need? This urgent bill, therefore, gives the competent bodies two months to categorise the installations. This is obviously done to start the championships in September. But it is in the summer, in August, where regions, municipalities, etc. will be required. to set up the relevant fitness check committees, go to check the premises and give the permits. I predict that we will also be coming in September and vote again on extensions. As far as Article 5 is concerned, we also told the committee that it would be possible for municipal elections to be licensed by municipalities, i.e. monitoring and control to be the same. Article 6 has to do with the Committee on Proficiency Control, which is to say, who is made up of this committee which controls the suitability of the installations. A big question is how to ensure that they work. We have a specific proposal on this. I would just like to make a point: within the bill, we are talking about a doctor of the ESS, preferably with athletic expertise. Let me inform you here that medical schools in Greece do not give athletic expertise, so it may be necessary to recast, that is to say, "Doctor with experience in sports matters" or "with experience in dealing with emergencies", because their job is to see if there is the necessary medical equipment in the facilities. We also believe that additional members should be provided for these committees in order to have greater flexibility, to be easier, that is to say, to set up this committee and not to expect that all four people can coordinate themselves in order to go to do the checks, but that there should also be substitutes. Article 7 states that there is a need for a licence for sports meetings. Let's see what sports meetings. It must not be necessary for a simple tournament or for a friendly struggle, because we will be collecting an incredible bureaucracy. There are also cases of regular meetings that can be held twice a week. And that's where we're going to ask for permission twice a week? Is that realistic? Is it effective? In Article 8, we believe that sanctions, as they are within the bill, are incompletely formulated and need further processing. As they are printed, they can act only as a fear, that is, as a preventive instrument and nothing else. Article 11 has to do with the recognition of the Special Olympics Association. We have heard the committees and Mr Kidela, the President and we agree. We need to see here how important it is for the socialisation of these children to be involved in sports activities. We believe that the recognition of the association is a step in the right direction and will give a boost to these activities. With regard to Article 12, which concerns distinguished athletes, we are in agreement with the aim of making better use of them, so that a mutually beneficial situation arises both for themselves and for society. Article 13 has to do with the honour of granting a licence to trainees. We believe that the adequacy of Olympic coaches is a given result. But we also understand the causes of the Pan-Hellenic Sports Federation, and we think a gold incision should be sought. It is likely that such a golden section will be the Minister to award these permits on the recommendation of either the respective Federation or the Hellenic Olympic Committee, the IOC. In Article 15 we have the result of the Standing Committee on Violence. Okay, we don't have any objections. But what are the reasons for the untimely payment? It's a question. There is also the experience of previous relevant institutions, such as doping monitors, where all national planning had been at risk due to the delay in the payment of accrued funds. We must not be the same in dealing with violence. And I want to come to the amendments a little. Parliamentary amendments have come, however, on matters which are clearly the subject of the Minister, which we believe will be accepted. I think that this is inappropriate because of the procedure that is being followed, namely that we did not have the opportunity to discuss what we had yesterday and the bodies, and indeed the issue with the licenses of distinguished athletes or prepared for the Olympic Games. It would be very useful to hear the opinion of the Association of Greek Olympians. We didn't have this opportunity. Why? Because it was not included in the original bill and then came as a 'parliamentary amendment'. And I put it in introductory terms, because in essence both amendments are in fact ministerial. I'll talk more in my denture about these two. For example, as far as the health card is concerned, I would like you to explain why the health card gives us something more and not the medical certificate in the form of the sports identity card. Explain to us, in other words, whether we are burdening athletes with greater bureaucracy. Yesterday's two ministerial amendments were made, Articles 16 to 21 of the bill. The first concerns the development law and the second concerns the Public Authority of Ports. These amendments come to change things that we have voted on in recent months. It is the legislation through the method of testing and error, it seems, a method that we use in mathematics successfully, but in parliament it becomes a'stick-stick'. Let's start from the one that changes the development law, L.4399/2016. Article 14 relating to the assessment procedure for investment proposals is amended. One of the most important articles of the development law is, in our view, unacceptablely amended as one paragraph of an amendment to an urgent bill. The fourth article allows the Minister for Economy and Development to decide to set up working groups to carry out administrative checks, certification, integration and start production of solar electricity investment projects up to 150 kW. It is noteworthy that these are compensation working groups, which will be defined by the Minister for Economy and Development, while the expenditure, with which the State Budget will be charged, is not specified in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State. It is another amendment to an unrelated draft law, extensions, facilities and, above all, transferring responsibilities to the Minister for services and other arrangements. In the amendment to the Public Port Authority, you voted for n a year ago. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Today, with an amendment to an unrelated urgent bill, you bring the change of article 130 of Law No4389 that we voted on last year. You come with these provisions - which we do not, in fact, have time to study forty pages in a few hours - to put things that suit you, because you have seen that in the first version of the law something was wrong and that you are now, in fact, going better to your benefit. New organic positions, transfers, secondments that the agency cannot refuse, without mentioning whether they are made with or without an invitation of interest, temporary posts and other things, to which we have, of course, been accustomed lately. However, given the importance of the issues dealt with in this amendment, namely the administrative structure of the Public Port Authority, we believe that it should be introduced under a normal legislative procedure and not emblem in an irrelevant draft law, which is why we will vote against it. I come to Mr Skourletis' amendment on contractors. It is an amendment tabled yesterday, but it is obviously on line. In other words, you are currently working on it after the workers' meeting with the Prime Minister to bring some sort of legislative improvement. It is a structured amendment, it is now coming out of the oven. Last October with the Bernardakis Law you brought the extension of contracts up to 31-12-2017. We have told you since that you have been taking on your neck workers because these extensions will be considered unconstitutional. It has not established your ear, and indeed the Court of Auditors is coming, it is asking for the money back from the workers who have been poorly renewed. Today we have arrived at the amenis of the country becoming a vast landfill. And oh of the miracle, the Prime Minister comes and takes up personally as the other Grand Alexander to resolve this Gordian bond with communication meetings at the Maximos Megalos. Let's get something straight. The fixed-term contracts are contracts for a certain period of time rather than for them to be made, after pressures and customer practices, without an indefinite period of time. If they meet fixed and continuous needs, this will only be apparent if the organograms and profiles that the public sector needs are created. And we are going to be a long way off on this issue. The attendants of Jerusalem know how the system works in the municipalities. Some were permanently kept clean, moved to administrative positions and hired other contractors to collect. And this motto was going on. The only thing that served was in the hostage of the workers, the customer relations and the populism that led to unsustainable solutions in life-threatening cities. Potami - and I am closing down with this, Mr President - has said from the outset that it does not see private individuals involved in the collection of waste, if that is the case, at the least cost for the citizens, which the government does not consider at all. There is, of course, a need for control and rules. This is the work of the state, to check whether the rules are respected everywhere for everyone and to limit arbitraryness. And those of the government who speak of 'older' conditions in the private sector should remind them that they are in the government and they should check that these conditions do not exist 'older'. We will therefore await the final version of this amendment. That is why in this sports bill of the original fifteen articles we were generally positive. However, by rejecting this practice of urgency with the unnecessary amendments, we will be vigilant until the end of the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u78	Well, the Minister of State will now take the floor, Mr. Vasiliadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u79	Mr. President, I asked you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u80	No, it can't be done. Please, Mr. Darkness. Let me finish. I will give Mr Vassiliou two - three more minutes, with the request - and I now come to the point that concerns you - if you are ready, to answer what amendments you have made to Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u81	Aren't they going to analyze them first so I can accept them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u82	Listen. If you are ready, I would like my colleagues to know why they might want to be placed before you reassign yourself to your dentistry. So, numerically, you can say that you are accepting this, that you will be able to accept it and that Members will know - as Mr Skouriaks wants for one or two minutes for his amendment and that whoever does not want it - will not be placed - and you will in the end, if you wish, come back. In order to make it easier for my fellow Members to say that, otherwise you are quite right. Here, I give you twenty minutes with a small tolerance, since you also refer to the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u83	I've kept a cava and a remnant since yesterday. Let Mrs Karamanlis let you know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u84	Since yesterday there are no rest in the House. The rest in the committees is not added to the Plenary Session.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u85	They made fun of me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u86	Because of sympathy, we'll be tolerant.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the bill with amendments to Law 2725/1999, regulating some urgent issues, some key issues of the country's sports situation and sports life. Unfortunately, many provisions are of greater communication importance - let us put it this way - than others that are more important and possibly wrongly monopolize the debate that has taken place in Parliament these days. That is understandable for many and various reasons. What is not understood is why even these days, even after this experience we have had all these months with the facts of the football federation and all that - because this is what I am talking about - which come to the surface, we still have a refusal to see and admit reality and move on to the next day. So you will allow me to see a step and part of what these serious regulations are coming with this legislative initiative. First of all, we come under the negotiation with FIFA and UEFA, which came as a result of the illegal situation in the football field. Point zero came from this government, Mrs Karamanlis. At point zero there was the Greek football after years of complicity, the closure of the eye conspiracy in the face of all that happened and its non-discussion to finally take place, a position that the Greek Government went to take in 2006 and the government did not manage, because now the international football organisations, whom we recognize, take their position, have opinions and put the finger on the type of suns, and we are ready to move on the next day. We are therefore coming in the context of the negotiation, given that the Greek state and the Greek Government are calling for certain rules that each legal entity operates in this legal order, rules of transparency, rules of equivalence, rules of good governance. And yes, we don't stay on technical issues. And it is unthinkable that there is a question of disagreement on the simple analogue. It's our internal matter. It's not the key policy, Mrs Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u88	It was first, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u89	The key political issue is that rules are finally in place for the first time. It is what we have achieved and it is the reason why intervention has been made and any concessions in the course will be made, which are agreed from the outset too. Therefore, soccer bodies, their general assembly, which allow them to take place on the basis of their statutes, move forward and then again, so that we do not violate open doors, when the elections are allowed to take place on the next day, with new proportions in the football electorate, with greater involvement of the professional football team, with the break-up of the docks, with conquests such as regular judges, who come for the first time and impose penalties that we have not seen all these years, sentences that come independently of every businessman who is behind every OLAF, who do not do the wrong, who can often be harsh, embarrassed or distressed by some of your colleagues, but are the reality, are the rule of law and the rule of law ensures that regular justice is guaranteed. The imposition of legality is therefore a conquest, and I cannot understand why even at the moment we do not recognise even this in the changes that have been made. You live in the disagreement we may have in the context of a strategic negotiation. There will also be regular reflections on the issues that we will choose and on the way we choose. The result of seeing and the result is positive. The result is that, for the first time, a legal status is imposed and we come and break the bonds, which have existed in all these years even in matters which do not relate to politics, but affect the way in which football is evolving, such as arbitration. We are successful and the video assistant refreee comes to stop the shadows, to stop the dependencies and the other interventions that will be made and the new disciplines that come after processing the EDP in agreement with FIFA and UEFA. It is all these changes that no one dared to do all these years, and no one dared to discuss all these years, and no one dared to stand up all these years. So let's stop making the rest of the findings, why do you know something? When the bugs were discovered in offices and limitations, your attitude was that today is Tuesday. When the black holes were found, your attitude was that today is Tuesday. When the financial scandals with the seal of 'DELOITTE', in the private sector, were found today, it is just Tuesday. But because people know, understand and know what changes have been made, and they know that only we can guarantee that there can be a better day not only for football, but for the whole sport, so we are going ahead with the support of society. From that point on, we come to resolve issues of recognition of our fellow citizens' rights, which, in any case, are bad and distorting structure of the Greek state for many and various reasons. We, too, often because of the economic crisis, cannot manage to do all we have in mind or which we want to do. We slowly manage, with regular moves, to win a step-by-step, day by day, more rights. I am referring to the recognition of the sports federation of the nephropaths, as well as the recognition of the special Olympics sports club. We don't do that to pet ears or look at election audiences. We don't get used to it, it's not in our logic and philosophy. However, we are doing so in order to be able, with the interventions of the law, to assist the General Secretariat of Sports not economically, because we have no money - you have done so too - and here you have left them, there is no money - but institutional intervention, such as providing trainees through our programmes, etc. ........................................ We want, with all that our institutional framework is now working rationally, to come and help these categories of our fellow citizens in order to give them a way out. We want to enable them to exercise dignity in safe sports facilities, with whatever intervention we can make. Let us now look at the issue of the licensing of sports facilities. I don't understand anything. There is a new framework for rationalising the right effort by the legislator, 13, 14 years ago, to lay down rules for the operation of these facilities, which in essence had such bureaucracy and such problems that could not work. For thirteen years we have been constantly prolonging the safe operation of our sports facilities. For thirteen years we have established rules which we know are constantly violating them, because this is a demonstrable context. We come here to resolve this, by making very simple procedures, but without a discount on technical characteristics. Within the law one cannot be described - one detail, but obviously the arbitrary law is in force, obviously the law on firefighting is in force, obviously the legal framework is in force. The question is the procedure followed to operate this framework and categorise it not according to the installation itself, but with what is being done in each installation and where they are located. It is not possible at the moment - this framework we had - the Olympic Stadium and a field in a remote village in the region to have the exact same licensing procedure. This is completely insane. This resulted in no installation being licensed. So what do we do? We are doing everything we can in a modern state, that is, decentralising competences. They go to the municipality and small-scale facilities. This is the alarming difference when we talk about games of national championships. Evidently, a pan-Hellenic teen championship is a national championship and includes national divisions, because there is a greater turnout and therefore there must be other security rules and other means of controlling the installation. Apparently, there's a re-check. Obviously, then, we are going to a modernised stage. There is an authorisation for the technical details of the law procedure. Apart from the CFD, we may be talking about a reform. We may, on the way to applying these provisions, see that there are some points which are problematic or create some difficulties. That's what we'll see in practice. But, in general terms, it is in the right direction and the procedures are simplified. There is obviously no conflict of interest and the identification of controls and controls. The municipalities assume their responsibility. It all ends in the municipalities. They operate on the basis of the rules and the documents they have. From there they take responsibility. Therefore, I do not think there will be any body of the Greek legal order who "light of heart" will permit if the conditions of the law are not met. But even if he gives permission, he will also have responsibility, and now we will finally have someone to take responsibility. Because we have also referred to Panthessaloniki, I have heard nothing about Mr. Agathastos' license. Nothing at all! But let us not open this chapter. So, finally, what is needed is simple procedures, transparent and clear procedures, so that everyone concerned can know at any time what to do, who to whom to address and who to blame. From that point on, with regard to the arrangements that we are bringing for the professional basketball, we have been very bold because there was a certain economic situation in the basketball companies, which made it necessary to see again the financial framework that the law requires to involve an OEM in a championship. The truth is that the whole professional sport in the country is, on the one hand, the economic crisis, on the other hand, and the tragic administration that has been all these years and, in particular, the years of prosperity - zero investment, bad planning and the phenomena of violence which the anonymous companies themselves have extorted to defend in order to defend all kinds of business interests and interests regardless of sport - have at the moment led to a situation where, if we want to be honest, they do not raise all the groups that exist, both in football and basketball. There is also a general debate on the restructuring of all categories of professional championships with a reduction in teams. We don't pick up so many anonymous companies. Already in the volleyball, that's a reality. And I'm afraid we can see the same thing in basketball. I'm not talking about the Second National or Football League, but about the Super League. We are therefore doing this intervention, knowing that there is a facility, since all players and basketball players agree. We know, however, that this is not a solution. It's a pill that gives us some time. And from that point on, a great and open debate on the future of professional sport must be opened in the country, a debate which, unfortunately, even if this House were to have been able to open it up and open it in depth, I am afraid that it would often not have found any interlocutors. It does not find interlocutors because this Parliament has learned to intervene and save those who should not be rescued so that it can serve micro-party and micro-political interests every time. So they think that again as a manna from heaven a solution will come from here. They will soon understand that such solutions will not come from here, and I hope that with everyone's consent. And we will all enter into a dialogue on the future of professional sport in the country together. In this context, it is also part of the intervention concerning groups that are wound up for each reason, with groups that are demolished and wound up, and the sequence of debts in case they become public limited companies. There was a legislative initiative last year in the right direction, which set certain conditions, specific rules, and in particular tried to deal with the phenomenon of companies being closed down and debts being lost, and to enable various experts to play with the provisions of sport law. However, what we have seen is that there have been some blurred points. These blurred points we wanted here today to close, drawing a separating line in the summer of 2016, a clear separating line that defines for whom and to what extent the new legal framework applies. From that point on - and I stressed this in committee too - we need to open up a debate, because the framework is indeed quite strict, as to whether there should be a second opportunity in some way and with clear criteria. But this should be done in a serious dialogue, and I hope that after an elected federation in Greek football I would like to believe by the end of the summer. From that point on, we come to resolve various issues relating to the treatment of the State of Olympics and coaches, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, Olympics, enabling them to mobilise the services of the General Secretariat of Sports and, in general, the services of the Olympic idea. For the first time, we are trying to exploit - I am not saying to an absolute degree - our athletes. We do not want athletes "parced" in the state, which also affects the state and them, we want to use them correctly, bring them to our schools, bring them to our stages where we open them, as we have opened the Peace and Friendship Stage and have passed since the beginning of the year tens of thousands of students and time will be even better, as we want to open the Olympic Stadium and use these civil servants, who are Olympics and have honored our country, doing what they can and helping the state to what they know and can do well. This is how we make good use of the human resources and especially those people who honor our country. We are therefore giving them the possibility of this exception. At the same time, we come to resolve an issue that arose in these Olympic Games mainly, but it has also been happening in the past and because of the existence of the law many times we have seen different vulnerabilities in the statements of Olympic coaches. So what are we coming to say? That for a certain period of time and given that for many years - we have forgotten about it for many years. We all believe that this country has been in existence for two and a half years. Now let us put the two and a half years before the time of Christ, before Christ, for the rest of the political system - they did not operate coach schools or, anyway, they acted in a enthusiastic context and too many coaches, even though they practiced the profession, did not have the right and the opportunity to enter these schools. So we come for a special category of coaches, for very limited people, for sports coaches who took over from first to third in the Olympic Games and the Paralympics to exceptionally give them the opportunity, the recognition of coaches, with retroactive power, to have the privileges that the law lays down for Olympic coaches. And by listening to the debate, the very fertile dialogue from those who were willing to make it to the committees, with a legislative improvement - which I will say all of them later - enables the Minister of Sports, following a recommendation from the federation concerned, to authorize a trade of honour for those people. There are many categories of coaches, which have not been made for several reasons, either because the schools did not work or because there was no corresponding school section, or because they have other criteria and criteria in their own legal system, all these are things that we consider and we must solve with sport law. But it also has limited power, because there is now an institutional framework and a legal framework for the functioning of schools, and we hope that we will be able to get into regularity since September. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] In addition to the compensation to the members of the ICES inspectors and the Committee on Professional Sport - which enables us to pay for the improvement of the state's finances - we also come to have a serious intervention on sports sites. There is a legal framework, which is clear about how the gyms operate, and there was a flawful framework for what is happening with sports spaces - gyms that are not directed to the general public. They are not gymnastics in the sense of the term, but at the same time they cannot be characterised differently, although tourist legislation recognises as an advantage of enclosure the existence of such a place. So what do we say? We say that these spaces from 20 to 100 square meters, since they are only available to the tenants, are excluded from Article 32 of Law 2725. We therefore have a vague legal framework that existed. Obviously it is in the right direction, and obviously for that reason, like all the provisions, they were accepted by all the institutions, as was very eloquently reflected in yesterday's session. And I think it is one of the few times that all the bodies involved in a consultation, in a debate in Parliament, are in agreement with everyone in the same direction and are speaking with a common denominator: that we are in the right direction. We are not saying or saying that we are solving all the problems. But the problems with which we are dealing are solved. It's obvious that sport law has been delayed. But tell me: We are known to be in an open consultation procedure with FIFA and UEFA. Would it be important to bring in a new sports context, which in a month, in two months, should we begin to amend it? I'm coming to the fan card now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u90	Minister, because you've been through your time and because you've both got dentology and tritology...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u91	Two minutes and I shall end, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u92	Since you have room to continue in another presence, let us better handle the time. You have a dentology, you have a tritology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u93	I want a minute and I'll be done. Talk about the fan card. Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u94	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u95	We have explained to the committees that, as we were about to apply since this summer, we have made an agreement with FIFA and UEFA to jointly change the security rules and build the team of experts from UEFA along with the Directorates of Sport Violence of Athens and Thessaloniki and the Athletic Prosecutors in order to create a new framework. It would be funny to go into a process where we will have the world go to register now and in two months to start a process again. That's what we're saying. We hope it will be understood. If it doesn't, it doesn't matter. We'll be right again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, with your tolerance I will give the floor to my colleague, Mr Skourico, to make a clarification of the appointments of artistic directors to the regional theatres. You have the floor for two minutes, please very much, Mr. Darkness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. This is a regulation which, as the President has said, concerns the recruitment of the artistic directors of the municipal regional theatres. It has recently been observed that there are criteria in the call for positions, where there is a precondition for a university, technological or secondary qualification - certainly the mandatory criteria that have never been laid down have been excluded. Thus, given the specificity in the field of art, where artistic value is very important and decisive, criteria are sought which are linked to essential and not typical, i.e. the recognized offer, distinction and training in the field of art and experience. It is therefore proposed that this provision should be recruited independently of the possession of a qualification for a specific training grade. Of course, recruitment of artistic directors, if any, which took place before the entry into force of this Agreement, shall be considered legal. This is how all these theatres have been operating since 1982 according to their founding law, while, as we have said, no additional provisions have been introduced. And we need to be careful, especially the administrations of the PPC, the mayors, because where additional predictions are in place it can be considered to be of the evil one and could also be accused of being "photographers". We cannot ask for higher education diplomas in a country where there is no higher school of art in universities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr Colleague, and respect for time. Mrs Eleni Alonitou from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's bill 'Amendments to Law 2725/1999 (A' 121) and other provisions', I would particularly like to deal with the many but very important issue of the licensing of sports facilities and the licensing of sports meetings referred to in Articles 4 to 8. I would like to take a special interest in this, because the way in which the country operates over the past few years demonstrates how it operates, when in 2017 we have arbitrary Olympic facilities. Not arbitrary sports facilities in Upper Magula, but arbitrary Olympic facilities. The question, therefore, of the authorisation of the operation of sports facilities seems to be simple and objectively simple, but its evolution over the years in Greece could actually be a whole novel. In 1999, Law 2725 provided for absolutely nothing on the subject, and as it turned out, it did very well, because the subsequent regulations that were adopted never succeeded in being implemented. In 2002, Law 3057 added to Article 56 of Law 2725/1999 concerning the exploitation of advertising spaces in sports facilities, Article 56A with the great title ‘Authorisation for the operation of sports facilities and a licence for competitions’. The article clearly stated that its purpose is to ensure the necessary safety conditions for athletes and spectators. It provided for an annual leave to be issued by the Secretary-General of the region after consultation of the Committee. The committee included, among other things, engineer, doctor, police, fire-fighting and controls, among others, the static resistance of the scales. Next year, in 2003, one year before the Olympic Games in Athens, Law 3217/2003 amended Article 56A, stipulating that the relevant provisions will only apply after the adoption of a joint ministerial decision, i.e. put the issue to the bells. In 2012, Law 4049 adapted Article 56A to its ‘KALIKARAT’, conferring the power to issue the authorisation to the Secretary-General of the decentralised administration. But here, there was another interesting change. While so far the granting of a conditional licence was prohibited, 2012 was authorised. So we reach 2014 and it appears as a surprise that the OECD's swimming pool cannot, he says, be used to perform swimming matches because it does not have a license. Looking for it, I found that the reason why it has no licence is because it has been built without town permit, that is arbitrary. "Why all this rush?" President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Why are we in a hurry to empty an Olympic facility that's arbitrary instead of slowing down, like they've done for so many years? I then asked the then State Secretary for Sports, Mr Andriano, who gave the problem the only solution that he could give, transferring with Mr.4280/2014 the power to authorise the operation of the OAS, the CST and the Katanzogale to the General Secretariat of Sports. To use a favourite expression of the first teacher and minister responsible for the Olympic preparation, Evangelos Venizelos, Mr. Andrians gave a solution that is a rightful creature. We have no real solution to this issue, so we are legislating a solution. How he says in the Bible “blessed light, ” here we said“born empty ” and born. But come on, that we cannot easily say 'a static study'. In what way will the static resistance of the bands required by Article 56A be controlled? Obviously, it will not be checked or the scales will have to be dismantled. So, where you're sitting on the bracelet and watching a match, let's get you some fair creatures from the roof in the head! Ladies and gentlemen, we here can legislate what we want, within the framework of the Constitution. But the objective reality exists regardless of what we legislate. The static building doesn't change by law. He wants a beer, he wants iron, he wants a static study. It is, of course, assumed that all this is legally provided for. What do you do, though, when a series of governments just violates the laws, on the mandate of the Minister, even the same minister who wrote the law, as happened in the Olympic preparation, and you really have to pick up the unbelievable ones? Today's bill begins by matching the licensing process and simplifying it. Acknowledges that OAS and an open-air sports facility without scales in a village do not have the same spectators load and should therefore not have the same licensing conditions. So sports facilities are divided into ten categories, which correspond to the spectators' load. Small categories are licensed by the mayor, the big ones from the region. In the small categories, a certificate of engineering or the technical service of the municipality is required. A special committee shall be set up in the large categories. The OAS, the RF, the Caucasus and the St. Quaestors remain in the General Secretariat of Sports, which is in fact called upon to manage the arbitrary national stages, which our country has and may once be able to legitimise. Of course, to get classed in sports spaces, the law does not allow it to be said. These laws must be implemented already. I hope that this time, and I am voting in favour of the bill at first and in writing, which solves many of the current, truly self-evident and significant uncertainties of the sporting community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mr Konstantinos Koukodemos from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u101	Mr. President, will you give me a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u102	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u103	There are amendments that concern the Ministry of Development and I understand that the Minister has accepted some of the amendments. Is there anyone here to talk about these matters, or are we going to talk to the Minister, who doesn't know about them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u104	When there's a Minister, you'll get in touch. For now, there's no one in charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u105	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u106	It cannot be solved by this Bureau, Mr Constantinople.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u107	No, the Bureau will not solve that, Mr President. It is a question of coming from the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u108	But Mr. Vassilidis won't solve it either. Is that possible? Mr. Koukodimos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in May 2015, I as the sports director of the New Democracy and Mr Contonis as State Secretary for Sport, discussed here the sports issues, the violence, the measures to be taken by the state. There, for the first time, and with a piece of legislation that the New Democracy had asked to withdraw at the time, we placed at the heart of the debate. Both UEFA and FIFA held multiple meetings and threatened Greek football with exclusion. A great deal has been said here about the government which does not retreat, about the corruption it is going to fight, about the violence that will disappear. That bill with fifteen articles, if I remember correctly, according to what Mr. Kontonis said, would be the beginning of the end for a number of problems affecting football world and family fans. In addition, we also made the promises of the then Minister that very soon and in time we would discuss sport law on a new basis and more complete. Big talk, summer night dreams! Two years later, we don't have anything in our hands. We don't have a new sports law. We still have a bill, which is trying to solve problems of the previous legislation, this Mr Kontonis. He comes with some articles to save what he can, if he can, again in 'approximately five'. And the question remains: Where is the integrated sports bill? Why do we legislate again? Didn't you know about the PDO elections? I have listened to you, Minister, on a television show to say: "First time Grexit is on the table, not because it conflicts with the self-interest of football with the laws of the state, but because there was a certain situation in the rules of operation of the SGP." In other words, you publicly told us that the NCA is operating illegally, or that it is doing what is needed for investigation, perhaps even for a judge. I think - and I shall speak personally - that Grexit will be on the table as long as this situation is not corrected. What we need to do is go in the same direction - and I will explain what I mean, because no one is satisfied with this wrong operating framework - that is, on the basis of the FIFA and UEFA statutes in which it is harmonised and the NCA statutes and nothing else. It's my personal opinion. So if the statute is not respected, then we in FIFA and UEFA should report it and threaten us as a state now to stop the championship and not give them the sports facilities for use. The findings are not currently available. I had them on my schedule as a sports director for many years. We were talking about the same thing two years ago, and we still talk about the fan card. You said that there is a fear that if the measure enters into force at the beginning of July, we might then have to change it again and so you decided to give an extension. You said earlier that you were in discussions and that this would probably happen in September. We're waiting for it. But I have a question: why aren't we ready now? What will change by the autumn that you claim we will be able to do it? What are the steps that have been taken or what remains to be done? You should explain that in your dentistry too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been a world-wide athlete. I've dealt with the problems from within. I can't do what I don't understand. And the difficulties I know and the problems I know. All the problems that sport has encountered arose mainly from this sloppy intervention of the state, the lack of political will and the disarmament. I believe that, in the urgency procedure, neither substantial nor effective dialogue can be made. We are not dealing with the problems, we are multiplying them, ladies and gentlemen, we are putting them under the carpet, and that is sad, because only a few days ago sport has made us smile, we and all of the Greeks. I am of course referring to the women's National Basketball Team, as well as to the National Attaché Team of men and women who remained in the Super League congratulations already to our children. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close by saying that you are legislating once again. The consequences of this tactic are experienced daily. It's not our guess, it's the whole society. Of course, in your bill, Minister, there are important articles that we are voting on. I'm glad we have a Undersecretary with whom. At least. We can have a completely different communication. I really like you. The rapporteur of the New Democracy has said what articles we agree on and what we disagree with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor from the Democratic Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry runs through this draft law to prevent the general meeting of the NRA on 30 June, despite the fact that the Ministry was very well aware and very early when the meeting of the NCA will take place and despite the fact that in mid-May we had a first picture of the changes that UEFA and FIFA had requested. However, you are rendering the urgency of a bill that could come under normal procedure. Thus, with the roughness and hasty wording of the provisions, issues are created rather than issues being resolved. In fact, it is impressive, Minister, that the Contonis Act is being fragmented today, while you insist that you do not bring to Parliament the sporting law which you, as government, have made. Let me remind you that you have broken down then, with the Contonis law, that you will face corruption and strife. Then the SYRIZA - ANEL government proud that you will not hesitate to put your finger on the type of sunshine, that you will mess with the status quo, that you will mess with corruption, as you said. The result, however, does not exist. What's there? A drug-free deal. Because it would be particularly important - and I would say, in essence, the bill, if a comprehensive plan were to be drawn up for the resolution of professional and amateur sport, a bill which will be the result of a super-party process, a consultation, the result of a dialogue, reflecting social acceptance, so that the law as a whole will be implemented. By legislative means - at the request of every minister - who are subject to blackmail, we cannot talk about reforms and, in particular, about hard battles against the interests of the space. Minister, bring the sports law to the House so we can see it and discuss it all. Now, at the moment, the bill. In Article 1, Mr. Konstantinos and Mr.4326/2015 legislated that the NCA would operate on the basis of the Constitution rather than on the basis of its statute. He then stated that despite respect for the self-interest, the government will exercise all the rights conferred upon it by the Constitution, of course speaking clearly of an uncontrolled system that has been created. Today, Minister, you overturn the Contonis Act, following FIFA's suggestion, so that the NCA operates under its statute. So what do you actually bring today? Bring normality back to Greek football. We stressed that, too, Minister. I say this, of course, not about history, but just to remind you that the SYRIZA - ANEL Government wanted artificially to find enemies so that it could then, of course, be justified. Our proposal, and now it is the same: Bring sporting law to resolve all the issues, find out the legislative gaps and inactive laws, see the finances of the federations, see our international obligations, see the real conditions for land violence, assess and determine the sanctions for sports arbitration, see everything and prove them - both legislative and practical - that we look forward to and seek to adopt a full legislative framework for sport, which meets the need for transparency and credibility, which respects the Constitution, legislation and Community law. Because in itself, without an ancillary framework, the fan card cannot bring the desired result, and also the categorisation of the sports facilities that this bill presides. Minister, our rapporteur, Mrs Kefalidou, has analysed you in committee for what reasons we are pressing for a more complete wording of the articles, so that there is no ambiguity and incomplete reference, such as in the provision for sporting recognition in the Sport Federation of Nephropaths and Transplanters. We told you our proposals and how they could be included in the bill so that no further problems could arise and, of course, no additional bureaucracy could be created. Finally, I would like to stress that sport is an indicator of culture in a society that needs the support of all of us, without drumcrossing, without party crowns, without much 'will'. Our country's potential has been seen and I think they have been taken indelibly. Don't forget the bet that we all won with the 2004 Olympic Games in all the successful organization of those Olympic Games. So let us once again aim to return to that point and finally put order in the chaos that has been created in the field of sport. Minister, in Greece of the crisis with the population ageing, as recorded by ELSTAT, at a time when demographic and subgenicity are major issues for the Greek society, it really needs substantial support and public care for the multitude family. In the patterns of national reforms and regulations for the polytexts already in existence in the legislation, the Hellenic Supreme Confederation has formulated a just request, which naturally meets the principles of the social state, but also in the current situation, to create a special category for the children of the multiple families who naturally have legal qualifications. With regard to the acquisition of a pharmacy licence, this is provided that the interested or their relatives up to the second grade have, or have never had, a pharmacy licence and have not been, or have not been, part of the business of a pharmacy, of course by presenting and strictly verifying the supporting documents, in accordance with the rules in force in the AACC tenders, which, of course, ensure the law of the arrangement. Minister, we are all aware of the serious difficulties faced by a large number of families and even at a time of crisis. We therefore call on you to accept this amendment that I have tabled. Minister, the major and essential reforms are ahead of us. But there is a need for political will and political courage. Yesterday we again experience the'red loans' and particularly the cases of consumer loans. I have said from this Step on several occasions that the borrowers of foreign funds should be preceded. It is not possible for the loans to be sold - and in particular for consumers to be sold, like red loans - to 5% of their initial nominal value and to take the funds. Let us give the borrowers the opportunity, Minister, to take the lead. Take an example of our Cypriot brothers who proposed it, did it, and loans did not go to the market, but actually go to the housewives. In conclusion, I will say that we need political will and political courage to succeed. That must be our bet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Dimitrios Koukoutsis, an independent MEP, has the floor. Also, fellow Parliamentary Representatives wish to say whether or not they want to speak and when.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u113	But the ministers haven't come yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u114	I say this because you are only two parliamentary representatives in the Chamber, Mr Katsotis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u115	We say this because they may make changes to the amendments. That's how we learn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u116	Mr. Koukoutsi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Today we have another important bill, which comes back in the form of urgency, without being properly processed within the framework of a genuine dialogue. The hearing of the bodies showed that the whole procedure was and was temporal. The bill without preparation and with fragmentary arrangements is unclear and essentially leaves gaps. The proposed draft law regulates issues that are called upon to address important issues of the players involved, while at the same time we have provisions on their functioning. Of course, you must admit that the urgency relates to the launching of the work of the normalisation committee set up by FIFA in the NCA on the reform of the statutes of the latter. There are positive elements, such as the special athletic recognition of the Neuropaths and Transplant Federation, categorisation of sports facilities according to the type of sporting installation, the whole spectators and the type of markets that will take place in them and the duration of the licence is regulated by the respective appropriate audit committees. Assimilated after the publication of Law 2725/1999, recognised by the General Secretariat of Sports Association, the Non-Profit Social Benefits Association under the name ‘Special Olympics International Hellas’. A positive step is the step towards the compensation of members of the Special Observatory of the Standing Committee on the Management of Violence and the members of the Committee on Professional Sports for 2016. I believe that the provisions governing electronic ticket and fan card are unrealistic and cannot, Minister, be put into effect under the present third world conditions of Greek sport. Yesterday we saw the committee have come representatives of the Greek Police and I expressed the view that the Greek Police should once leave the sports areas. We have seen events in the past, rituals, security bodies officers humiliated, exaggerated by night people who are engaged in professional sport, raved and all of them to plunder it. At some point, then, the police in this country must stop being treated on the stadiums in this way by every punk, who wants to go only to cause problems, and who are basically those who run the big OEMs, the big OEMs. Article 9 of the relevant law provides for the reduction of the guarantee letter rate that the OEM is obliged to deposit and for its assimilation to other sporting public limited companies. Yesterday we saw a paradox in committee. We have seen the basketball trade unions, which are directly affected, defend the order. With regard to the transfer of powers of decentralised administrations to the area in question and in accordance with Articles 4, 5 and 6, it is attempting to incorporate sporting facilities into categories. There's a problem here. To date, a body responsible for authorising any sports space, national, Olympic, regional, municipal and all in general sports venues in the country has been the Secretary-General of the relevant decentralised administration. Once these powers have been transferred to the region, some questions arise. The Greek Committee of Regions itself states that it is unable to cope with the new data due to a lack of administrative structures and mainly staff. At the same time, it states that there is a need to amend the regions' internal service bodies and similar economic resources which do not exist. The situation is, of course, even more difficult when the regions have the power to permit sports meetings, of course, taking account of their large number, the lack of staff that is needed, and above all, as we have said, the logistics infrastructure. A questionable article is also given exceptionally to coaches of athletes who won a medal in Olympic or Paralympic games and who do not have a licence in this regard. Unfortunately, this bill does not make a significant cut, but it continues to be at the same wavelength as the past. Ladies and gentlemen, Greek sport has been in a stall for many years. The lack of funding from the state budget gives the unions free to look at all kinds of commercial activities in order to be able to cope with their operational needs. Sport activity, unfortunately, is now inextricably linked to television rights, all kinds of commercial activities, gambling, the means of betting and the confrontation of interests of big businessmen, something that has recently been demonstrated in the Chamber of the Greek Parliament. So to stop sport being a prey of interests, sport must change. How, though, can they change, when physical education hours are reduced in schools, when municipalities want money to be spent by the public when unions transfer the cost to children because they do not have the financial capacity? Also, much has been said about the medical control of young athletes. Nevertheless, the tragic account of new sad events is still growing. Is there any chance that a championship will be made today without financial incentives? I would not like to go into more detail with the Olympic Games institution - because only the Olympic Games are not - and their merchandise, sponsors' mathematics, doping, rot, profit. Today, the sport industry is a strong economic company, which has been clearly integrated into modern marketing. Therefore, the company itself and its sponsors only have to increase their profits. That makes sense, it's business. Achieving the objectives of an athlete now has an economic value. The pressure is therefore growing. Besides, it's only the first one that matters now. The second is nothing. Even at the time of the Cold War, sport was used to testify to the political power and superiority of the then superpowers, which is happening today. Which one of the largest of us does not remember in the West and East one of America's colored superstitious athletes, even half of whom did not spend the fifty years of life and, respectively, the tragic forms of women of old Soviet and Eastern Germany, with the atrocious physics and their whipped mustaches as a result of the substances they were awarded to them? Unfortunately, all these years, nothing has changed. It takes radical sectors to relieve sport from illness and rot. It seems that regardless of the rules that the crisis has brought to our country, the situation does not save half the way, despite the friendly and soulfulness of these athletes who have the hand even continue their efforts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u118	Thank you. Mr. George Pallis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u119	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I will not waste time. I think that those of us who are in the Chamber and our fellow citizens who have watched the Minister's position on television - a measurable, fundamentally and with an absolute honest position - can understand that, for the first time in the country, after many years, he is going to get a class on all that we have received. Everyone knows at our place the sports facilities that are nonexistent, the papers, the interventions that have taken place for so many years, the problems of sport in general. I will talk about two amendments which I have tabled with colleagues concerning the problems that have arisen in our prefecture in Lesvos, in relation to the earthquake that took place on 12 June. One amendment No 1084 on the substance of this amendment is to ensure that pupils are transported for an extension of the school year because of the earthquake. We have had an excellent response from the state at all levels and from government, and I obviously believe that the Ministry will also be accepted so that these children can normally close their year without problems in the last few days. It is an extension from 30 June - as Mr L.4415/2016 says - to go the year until 3 July, to close the year properly and to get the children to pass their tests. The second amendment under number 1086 concerns the financial grants for the Lesvos Regional Unit. It is a process initiated for interregional cooperation and interregional assistance from the Attica region. We therefore request that Article 57 of Law 4456/2017 be added to a paragraph that says that the grant of own resources from a region of the country to the region of Northern Aegean in favour of the Lesvos Regional Unit by decision of the regional council concerned, by way of derogation from the provisions of d.d. 30/1996 and d.242/1996 on the implementation of projects, studies, supplies and services in order to address the effects and consequences of the earthquake in Lesbos on 12-06-2017. It clarifies that, if they are not exploited within four years, they are returned to the region that donates them. I think the Ministry will accept both amendments because of the urgency, but I imagine that all the groups, like my colleagues, will vote in favour of these two amendments. It is important, as the earthquake in Lesvos started very well, that we all continue together at this rate, so that not only the restoration takes place, but that we succeed in areas where we have had years of problems, and the improvement of infrastructures, and a better future for the country. Thank you very much and I hope in your vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr. Palley. Mr Constantinople has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u121	Mr President, I will speak on the amendment tabled by the Minister for Development. I do not know how the President-in-Office could understand - for reasons of competence, not anything more, so as not to misunderstand what I am about to say. There is this, Minister. Here comes the government and gives retrospective extensions. In other words, the extension has expired - as you can see, which bank will help the investor - and is now coming and giving retrospective extensions. Minister, I do not understand what development you want to do and how you will support the operations. I don't understand that. Secondly, we have the 2005 and 2014 development laws. I say to you that for investments submitted in 2005, with Law 3299, an extension is 31 July 2017, and for investments submitted four years later - of course these are in the PASOK government, while the previous ones are Costas Karamanlis - you only give five months later. I do not understand why, since you come to resolve a question of extensions, with which we agree, you do not allow them to go ahead. We want to see it, we want to support it, we want to see the investments that are in their completion. There are chambers that say that all the investments of the 2004 and 2011 Act are mature, have building permit and loan approval. We must give them the opportunity to move forward. You don't give them that kind of opportunity. I don't understand where Mr. Papadimitriou has thought of all this? It punishes all investors, who - the law was in 2014 - submitted all applications and is the previous development law of 2011. I want an answer. Investors today want an answer from you, tell them what you are coming to do today. We suggest you get this setting back. We call 'yes' to extensions. Extensions on the basis of both the Chambers' views and all this, but to build a project that is worthwhile. You through this whole process punish everyone who has acted n. 3908/2011 and all investments submitted by 2013-2014. This is a real punishment. On the contrary - I will see political features and, you know, I find nothing else to say - you are giving advantages to the law of the government of Karamanlis. I understand your relationship with this group, but here we are talking about investors. You'll be able to see these in another phase. Mr Minister, let Mr Papadimitriou, Mr Haritsis, whoever knows the Greek reality better, come in and discuss and find solutions from which investors will benefit, but no provisions that create more problems for investors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. Mr Georgios - Dimitrios Karras, an Independent MEP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u123	Mr President, thank you. Mr Constantinople raised a crucial question of Parliament's legislative function, namely that amendments are made by various ministries without the presence of the ministers and the Members of Parliament are attempting to open up a dialogue, and usually the accelerating minister is unreasonable and reasonably unreasonable. The same phenomenon is observed in today's bill, which in terms of its body, at least as far as sport is concerned, is also worthwhile and has an object. A great deal has been said before, and I do not want to repeat it. I just want to focus on an issue related to sport, which is linked to the fan card and, in particular, to the violence in the field. At the moment, whatever efforts have been made for many years, the phenomenon of violence is returning to sports areas and we do not know whether it will disappear. I see, therefore, that Article 3 of the bill extends once again the time that will become the fan card and, on the other hand, the electronic ticket, compulsory for the fields. The explanatory statement does not help me. It only tells me that essentially technical reasons make this possible and there seem to be also demands from operators. I do not think, however, that the technical reasons in this 21st century are insurmountable, but I also do not know those requests and why they are being made. So I think, Minister, that you should speed up, at least until the opening of the championship, September - October, if there is any possibility of dealing with this, because I am sure that since we are talking about December, since the championships will have begun, we will say 'let's go in the next six months and look at it now at the beginning of the next period'. I think, therefore, that if an extension is made, it should always be linked to the start of the championships. So I leave the sports bill. I would like to comment on something that has gained vigilance over the last few days, on the issues of the municipalities, on the collection of waste, on the service and staff relationship of cleaning staff. It is not something that we did not expect, if you wish, at this point that it would come back to the fact that it would become critical in the present period. What for? It is well known that the extensions of contracts have been given - I have at least four in my hands lately - by legislation. It was also known, however, that the 2001 amendment to the Constitution brought about a change in the status of the labour relations of the municipality staff and had to have dealt with the issue in time for the workers so that they would not be taken hostage, as is the case today, where the number is still not clear what is necessary, we do not have organograms of municipalities, so that we know who will eventually be recruited and how many of those who are currently working and on strike. All this is precarious and we understand that it takes time. This time, however, has a consequence, Mr President, in the situation of workers and their families and another consequence of the uninterrupted and regular collection of waste. So I think that this amendment, which the Minister for the Interior brings up, does not solve the problem. It may be required by the decisions of the Court of Auditors. I will also comment on them, saying that it was known for at least a year that the Court of Auditors has been exposing unconstitutional codes for fixed-term contracts that covered temporary needs. He had stressed at least the step since spring 2016 this issue and had shaken the substance of the arrangements. However, no welfare was taken, and today we are in the same situation that we were in last year and before. I do not know and do not have the time, Mr President, to 'patient' the amendment of the Ministry of the Interior. I'm seeing her cuffed right now. But I think it does not solve the problems. I think it will cause further problems for those that it claims to resolve. The case will again be brought before the courts, and especially the Court of Auditors, with the audit of expenditure, even though it is repressive, because the government has been provided for it, knowing that it cannot deal with such problems, abolish preventive control and we are in this situation. I therefore think that the House should protect all the workers, whom we have today in a hostage, because they do not know their future. We therefore need to improve this amendment, also to give a definitive solution, but also in the way it does not allow for the resumption of violent phenomena in the future. To conclude, on this point, Mr President, I would just like to say two words on a point that I have raised before in my speech in the House on the one hand, so-called'regulatory principles', which have been established in the last few years. I am not talking about constitutionally guaranteed ones, about which we cannot say anything. I am talking about those who, by legislative provisions, are being created and I have a glimpse of that being possible today twenty-one. I should like to comment on and rejoice, if you like, the fact that, alongside the regulatory authority, which seeks a degree of independence, is also questionable now after the advances of the Port Regulatory Authority, known to me - but to comment on the amendment by the Public Port Authority. I ask a question and I think it will be simplistic, but it is catalytic: What is the need for an Service that bears the title ‘Regulatory Authority of Port’ and a second... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. I have said that I will also respect the limitation of the time imposed by the majority of the House on the Members. I have expressed my opinion that I have been accused of misuse of time in Athensis, and I am reluctant to do so. To conclude, I do not understand at least - and I think I am experienced in legislation - what the need for a public port authority is, what the need for a port Regulatory Authority is, how they can function. Are we being imposed on us by regulatory authorities and we want to rob them with a public authority? I don't know. I'm waiting for answers. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, George Panjas, has the floor. Mr. Panjah, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing an important legislative initiative by the Ministry of Sports, however much as some of the Vice-Presidents want to reduce it. After all, we are used to being against whatever the government legislates. You would say that every morning you consult each other by telephone to have a single line. It is an important initiative by the government, which is characterised by radical and necessary interventions, which many of them have in the light of the reality of sport are self-evident and demanding, a reality which at least in the part of the sports facilities is a reminder of a burnt land, the one left by the two former major parties, PASOK and New Democracy, which have beaten the place and failed it. Do not think that the Greek people have suffered amnesia and do not know who created this burnt land: Sports facilities that after the Olympic Games were left to their fate without use, without maintenance, only loaded with large debts. So today, with the categorisation laid down in the draft law, we set the necessary conditions to ensure the safety of the athletes, but also of the spectators. We start the process so that sports establishments can obtain a licence, an essential condition for their future exploitation. We are legislating on popular and social grounds. I am referring to the provision which allows sporting anonymous companies to be degraded without, however, exempted from the debts they have created to the public, social security agencies and so on, but which protects their amateur club, that is to say, the history of the club and the tradition that they have created for decades, having left some deposits for the sport itself. We are legislating on the basis of today's social needs in the field of sport and, above all, vulnerable social groups such as the 'Special Olympics', kidney patients and transplanters, which the state recognises and supports. It is important, then, to say that this bill solves important and chronic diseases, while at the same time promoting another logic in sport. However, I would like to focus on the two amendments which I have tabled with my fellow Members and which I consider to be very important. The first concerns the licences of coaches and athletes, which, in our view, should take from their work during their preparation phase. I think that doesn't need much analysis. We all understand that. The second concerns the huge issue of the athlete's health card. A chronic problem requiring significant intervention, and the reason is that the joint ministerial decision on the athlete's card has been pending for eighteen years. Because there were a lot of guilds that wanted to be involved, so it blocks the whole system. No medical protocols, if possible! What tests are needed to prevent sudden deaths of young people? It's an important intervention. Because the arbitrary nature of this matter has been and is enormous. Everyone will know or have heard that the athletes' medical examinations have not always been substantial. In many cases, in fact, the medical stamp was entered in the athlete’s note in the offspring. So this has to end, because we are talking about human lives. Instead of supporting this amendment from the other parties, and for eighteen years the New Democracy has done nothing today, we are being renounced by the fact that we are solving this patheticity. What else can we really hear? There is one question about the arguments of counter-population. Ladies and gentlemen, the Sports Party is over. This, of course, displeased you, gentlemen of counter-population. The era that PASOK and New Democracy used to legislate in favour of players and competitors in sport has finally ended. The new era marks interventions with a positive social profile and a main concern and priority, amateur sport. So we are ready in the final stage to introduce a new framework law into sports and social events, a new framework law that is modernised and time-consuming, fair and upgraded with the current interventions of the Ministry that will be incorporated into the new sports bill, which will bring it to the vote this year. It is therefore an important initiative by the government which justifies the urgency of legislating in many articles. It is an important piece of legislation that - look out - corrects and does not settle. Because in the setup, the exes of the species are others and they have a name. The Greek people know them. The world's PASOK and New Democracy are known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u126	Thank you too, Mr Panjah. Mr Ioannis Saridis, Parliamentary spokesman from the Association of Centres, Mr Ioannis Saridis, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u127	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I heard Mr Papadimitriou, the Minister for Economy and Development this morning, saying that he is not a politician in the BBC. I even saw him bereaved, because the journalist insisted on using statements by Mr Venizelos to describe how he perceives what part of the Greeks had happened, who is to blame, but what is the real situation in our country at the moment. The current image of our country abroad is shaped in many by such appearances of ministers, such as the famous HARDtalk. I'm not saying that foreign citizens expected to give their opinion on our historic nation from the Papadimitriou statements. Anyone on the planet has received a degree in any scientific field will have to be found in front of a few Greece. But investors are not at all interested in our thousands of years ago. Their criterion is the figures and indicators of the economy, and even as they measure things and not as we present them. So when the Minister for Economy and Development states on such a show that he is not a politician, he is causing a problem in the country. It creates a big problem in the country. Politician, as the honourable Member, Mr Lappas, who is absent from the Chamber, will tell you, but you want to be, since you have accepted political responsibility. I have had the honour of representing the Centres' Union on two committees of inquiry, where I have heard a lot of discussion about what exactly the phrase 'political responsibilities' means. What one did not question was the assumption that the head, the political leader, brought knowledge in a few words, also bears responsibility. Mr Papadimitriou, you have not given us the honour of coming to support the amendment. You may not consider yourself a politician, because you may not have suffered the suffering of the poll, but you are a politician, because you bring the political responsibility of the Ministry, whose will you do. I am ending this small but important parentheses with a comment on the irritation received by those who watched Mr Papadimitriou refuse, annoying, to comment on Mr Venizelos's words. Mr. Papademitriou, the foreigners who saw you have no obligation to know who Mr. Venizelos is or what role he has played in the history of the crisis in Greece. As you can see, then, what they saw you do is refuse to comment on something, on the pretext and only on the pretext of who said it. This defames our country, expels investors, as it gives the impression that the political leadership of this place does not understand the meaning of the phrase "political responsibilities" and hides behind its finger, declaring its own responsibilities, while at the same time not comprehending the value of dialogue with arguments. When will we stop looking for the gravity of the words in his last name? When are we going to start talking with arguments in this Chamber, but also outside this Chamber? When are we going to start answering the substance and stop looking at it? Then there will indeed be investors in our country, when we change them all, when we realize our responsibilities and do them accordingly. So perhaps you could convince us that you really need to provide for the provision of the first article of the late, natural amendment you are bringing us under the general number 1074 and special 12. You do, in fact, speak in the explanatory statement of a significant number of investment projects submitted. These claims will be immediately examined, Minister. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is prepared to give us an answer on this matter. Two questions have been tabled by the speaker from this Step. He has the questions in his hands, he has the data for December 2016, April 2017 and tomorrow, possibly July 2017. Otherwise, you may not feel political, Mr Papadiriou, but with the second article of your night amendment you are asking us to authorize you to adopt a very important ministerial decision. How important its content is, however, did not make you feel obliged to bring it here for serious debate in Parliament. It has not made you feel the obligation to come here so far to support it. The fact that you do not feel political, Mr Papadimitriou, does not relieve you of your political responsibilities. The extensions provided for in Article 3 say a lot about what is happening in that country. Extensions, postponements and legislative patches prove by definition, when we talk about investment projects, lack of political will and strategic planning. Like the fact that just today, in June 2017, with Article 4 of this amendment, you start to see what will happen with the control of energy investments. I would like to comment on this very important amendment from the Ministry of Finance and Development, reading the last sentence of the explanatory statement accompanying it, and whoever understood it: 'Finally, error corrections are made in individual wordings of these provisions'. At the same time as Mr Papadimitriou brought us this amendment, he ignores another legislation which he is obliged to do. I am referring to the arrangement that had come with an amendment tabled by the Independent Greeks and supported by all opposition parties, so that those entrepreneurs who had joined the development law and for reasons of force majeure could not carry out their planning. These entrepreneurs, these people, while they want to turn back the advance they have received, do not accept this advance from the Ministry, pay the banks due to guarantees, even today, when we talk about supplies, and risk being destroyed. This is how the Ministry of Economy and Development thinks the future of this country. Then we must not ask ourselves why we have this picture which we have and why we are bringing the results we bring. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to look at the amendment from the Ministry of Shipping, which is a general number of 1075 and a specialist number 13. It is also late and has a total number of forty-one pages together with the accompanying documents. It was only yesterday that the Minister, Mr Kourublis, explained to us here in this Chamber, on the occasion of a question from the New Democracy, about reducing the arrivals of cruise ships in the Aegean Sea, in what state the Ministry was when the SYRIZA Government received it. But it has been two and a half years since. This amendment regulates issues of the administration and structure of the Public Port Authority. Her usefulness and value remains to be seen and judged by her work. The establishment of the regional office of Thessaloniki is important, as is the effort to exploit the human potential of the former Ministry of Macedonia and Thrace. But you've ruined this ministry forever. What you're not telling us is what you expect from the operation of the Thessaloniki office. Will it be equivalent to the operation of the Prime Minister's Office? Either way, this effort by the Ministry, in order to re-enter our ports and keep under public control some things, is still at a stage that does not allow us to optimise, nor, of course, to believe that you have managed to change something for the better. Instead, the legislative practices you follow reinforce the arguments of those who accuse you of trying to create a party army in the heart of the Greek state - and not only strengthen it, but it is also sure that that is what you are going to do. I said to the committee this morning that we lost as a country the "treno" of quantitative relaxation, without having presented any tangible progress on the issue of the sustainability of the Greek debt. We have had to take precedence over here. We have had to go back to legislation, just to change their wording, so that creditors do not feel insecurity. All the economic elements of the country are getting worse. Unemployment remains at 25%. It's a big number. With unemployment close to 25% - and 24% to tell me - there is no future. And there is no future, because too many people, thousands of young people go abroad, because they cannot rely on what they see, on what they vote in this Chamber - measures, amendments, laws, provisions - for them without them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, I would like the floor for some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u130	Here you go, Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u131	Mr President, I am tabling some legislative improvements, which were also raised yesterday by the debate on committees and Fridays, but also by incorporating some of the proposals from the Scientific Committee of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u132	As regards the amendments tabled, I accept the amendment with a general number of 1077 on 'forest-protection', the amendment with a general number of 1078 on 'extension of mergers of PDOs in the regional PDOs', the amendment with a general number of 1080 on 'equitable discounts for elected members in the selection boards of PDOs and the service councils of the regions', the amendment with a general number of 1081 on the athlete's health card, which we did not have to incorporate into this draft law, because yesterday we ended discussions with the Ministry of Health, so it is in the right direction and it also concerns sport. I accept Amendment No 1082, on permits for the preparation of sportsmen and coaches, Amendment No 1084, on the transport of pupils and pupils, on the substance of the Lesbos Prefecture, Amendment No 1086 on the financial grants for the Lesbos Regional Unit, as developed, and Amendment No 1087. I do not accept Amendment No 1083, although I understand the request and as a dissatisfaction with this request. However, it should be done more extensively, in my opinion, with the Ministry of Health. Therefore, I cannot accept it, as well as Amendment No 1076, on the payment of a contract. I think we should come with another procedure and another debate. Mr President, the amendments with a general number of 1081 and 1082 on the health cards for athletes and the permission to prepare athletes, I would, if possible, like them to enter before Article 16. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u133	For the amendment under a general number 1085?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u134	Mr Skourletis will be present for the amendment under a general number 1085.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u135	You're accepting her?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u136	It's obvious, but the Minister will be here to develop it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u138	Here you go, Mr. Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u139	It is well known, Mr President, that we are being followed today by thousands of contractors for the amendment tabled by the Minister for the Interior. There was a meeting. There's a lot of things going on. There are changes. Furthermore, the Minister has not come to say what the changes are in his amendment. The debate is closed today. We want to see what these changes are and what is the Minister's advisability. Because I think there is a need to delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u140	Mr. Georgiod, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. I would also agree that in such an important amendment, such as 1085 or 1076, the Minister should be here to give clarification. In any case, this last-minute consultation seems to me to be only a slap and gives me the right to describe it so far as the management of the issue of contractors by the rulers is concerned. Let us clarify two things, ladies and gentlemen: This whole issue with TA cleaning contractors began after the Government's choice on May 11, 2015 and by extending the activities of contracts at that time and also giving a right to new contracts until December 31, 2015. Subsequently, a new legislative arrangement took those contracts up to 31 December 2016 and subsequently by the last regulation, until 31 December 2017, at least so sought. What did all these three legislative initiatives have as their main feature? One was all three in the words ‘by way of derogation from all general and specific provisions’. Of course, why did the government have to say that? Because not only were they opposed to the existing legislative framework of the ordinary law, but they were also contrary to the constitutional provision of Article 103(8) of the Constitution, which almost all of the Vice-Presidents of Anti-Population were tired of mentioning in this House and saying to the government that this option would encapsulate the workers, create deadlocks, as it is clear that there cannot be any extension to fixed-term contracts and, of course, no conversion of fixed-term contracts into indefinite contracts. Article 103(8) of the Constitution has learned so many times that it has been heard here, but three ministers, following on from the government, have actually come and defended the possibility of converting these conventions in indefinite time. So the unanimous decision of the Court of Auditors, which says self-evident, which anyone who opens Article 103 today will read. But you know that was not sudden for the government, which at the moment shows that it is struggling to cope with the deadlock it created itself. For over a year the inspectors in the tiles have not approved the payment of the orders and have not approved the payment of the orders precisely because there has been the unconstitutionality in extending these contracts. The only ones who are not to blame for what has happened are the workers. The worker expects the best for himself, the best for his family. It must be politically responsible, however, for playing with the anxiety of these workers. In the present case, the civil servants, the present government, did not only play at the anguish of these workers, played with the municipalities. What do I mean by the municipalities? Article 102 of the Constitution: The economic and administrative autonomy of the municipalities is guaranteed. If the collection of garbage that is a purely local case is not left to every municipal council and the mayor to choose the best way to cover it, precisely because they pay it through their return services, then what role do the OTAs play? It's a purely formal case. It's paid by the public. So the government comes in and says: 'These extensions will be made that will be paid by you, i.e. the public, regardless of whether a request had been made or not by the municipalities'. I would like to clarify something here which has not been sufficiently heard. Half the municipalities in the country have seasonal needs. Right now Halkidiki has a million people. In winter there are ninety thousand. Is the same need for providing, for the employees who need to collect garbage in winter and summer? If anyone tells me that it is the same and they need those who need the three months of summer, we should have them in all months of winter, let us also take the responsibility of any charge of the citizens here before all the Greeks. End this story. Today, with this legislation, on the initiative of the government, what is being attempted is a very great deadlock again. Actually, he wants the government to buy some time. Why? He does this, firstly in relation to the workers, says that the contracts of the already contractors, those already working until 7 June, until 31 March 2018, will be substantially extended if there are empty organic posts or each municipality asks for an amendment to its organisational chart and vacant posts to be created. In such a case, the amendment we have before us today - the City Council may approve to employ some if there are two conditions. One condition is what we have said, namely that there should be empty existing organic positions and that there should be grounds for public health. Who's gonna determine them? On what criteria? How? What happens in a case where a municipality needs ten people all year long, but in the summer of a hundred people? He lets the workers fight with the municipal authorities and the municipal councils, because that's what he actually does. He says to them: "I gave the money to the municipalities to keep you," but by putting on these conditions why they couldn't do differently, they are now narrow the margins that they can move, actually shift the problem for later, earns time right now and lets all contractors fight with the municipalities. It does something else, however, which is unacceptable. The way in which it strengthens and premiums the service of contractors so far actually leads to a closed contract notice, a photographic provision. It is the right of each Greek who has a pre-service to cleanliness either has acquired it by working in the private sector or has acquired it by working with old contracts in the municipalities and in the OTAs, to be able to participate in the competition of any permanent posts requested by the municipalities. But the way in which today's notice is written, with the seventeen molecules per month for twenty-four months - a total of four hundred eight - when the upper moleculation for five years is four hundred and given that all these conventions have been extended before 11 May 2015 until today, it simply lacks the name of those who have worked - I repeat - provided that the municipalities are asking for so many people for their positions. So why is it that someone who has been working in cleanliness ten years in the private sector who, too, has the experience and pre-service that it is necessary to have no luck in such a competition? There could be some increased moleculosis that could be discussionable. But not in such a way, which effectively excludes all others. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I need some more time. Ladies and gentlemen, while all this is being discussed by a government which is interested in workers, I see no talk of what has been done, about what has been done, which, based on the principle of the trust of the administration, of the citizen in the face of the state, these workers are right at the moment claiming. I don't see that reported anywhere. There isn't. We have tabled an amendment to Mr Vorides. This amendment is quite clear in this respect. It is Parliament's duty, because Parliament has paradoxically passed these legislative amendments by a majority and has detained these people, to enable them to be paid immediately. Nor do they make fun of them because, in fact, the way this amendment comes translates the problem with a large number of unconstitutionalities into the contents of the provision and, at the same time, creates new issues for conflicts between the municipalities and the workers. The municipalities must be allowed to decide on their own, because they know the particular local conditions, how they will decide how to make the waste collection that the public pays. Another may need permanent staff some time, another time not wanting permanent staff and selecting contract staff, another may want to make a public partnership with the private sector for whatever time the needs are greater. We must not have any phobias for this thing. It's happening everywhere. Parliament will not come here today to decide how the garbage is to be collected, which the public pays at every step. Of course, we support the economic and administrative autonomy of the municipalities. Leave them with the tools, which are currently in place, the municipalities to decide for their own needs and not to put them between whatever lies we told the workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Sevastakis Dimitrios from SYRIZA has the floor
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u143	Ladies and gentlemen, every bill we change it into a multi-thematic. Someone else's talking about Papadimitriou, someone else's talking about something else. In other words, we are doing a partitioning of issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u144	I hope the government hears you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u145	The previous speaker has just seized a point and, in fact, without the information, without the text and therefore the opportunity to stand up to a text that is coordinated and determined. I would also correct Mr. Saridis. The amendment tabled by Mr Haritsis, on behalf of the entire ministry, is also accompanied by something, of course, that a high performance of the Ministry of Development and Finance, a high performance in terms of the recruitment and utilization of programmes. I have ideas, I have objections for both the themes and the charges. However, it is undeniable that it has very high performance and high absorption.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u146	Can dialogue be stopped, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u147	We celebrate the Minister's arrival!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u149	We will therefore all be placed on the text and document by the Minister. I will remain in the bill, mainly in the environment, on which he is trying to form both his logic and the regulatory system that he proposes and incorporates. The international sporting environment is extremely competitive and I would say that hard international professionalism is probably weakening the cultural dimension of the sporting path. We also have a complex of contradictory, opposite interests or expectations in the field of sport, and at the same time we have a very high function of balancing and reducing social conflicts. So sport has magnified its social role with the crisis and in the shadow of the crisis. Therefore, it is very important and very positive that the care and interest it raises from the political groups is very important. As to the elements he tries to organise, in this number of contradictions it is clear that the bill will incorporate a variety of desires and tend to try to rationalise this extremely contradictory field. I will stay on a parameter that concerns me more and more politically, in the sense of the small sport structure that has local characteristics and which I think incorporates local societies, the local desire for development. We see it in small sports clubs and small sports structures in the region, in Samos, in Ikaria, in the Forens. They are small structures which house a very great social desire for sport, competition and social co-operation. I think this side strengthens local societies and technical services. I would like to point out in passing that the technical requirement of the technical services of the municipalities is increased, so they must be strengthened because they are more complex objects in spatial planning, etc. So if we are willing to support decentralisation, we should allow these structures to be strengthened. I would say that the bill that tries to organise a superstructure in some way concerning the ports is also very important. I do not know how it will be done, but at the moment the port funds, whether municipal or state, need support, need institutional and technical support. Also, pending the amendment by the Ministry of Interior, Mr Skourletis, on contractors, I would like to make a small point. It is very easy to sell, anyway, to workers who may be thrown from the outside who have this "outside" stunt of the decommissioner. We must be modest and try to propose the most reliable solution to a legal environment that we know very well that it is dashing and sometimes hostile. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, in the past days, we have tried with a spirit of dialogue to reach an amendment which we have tabled to you, which gives you a realistic way out of the situation that has been created. They have been written and heard too many things in the last few days. Most of them do not correspond to reality, it is inaccurate. And I would like to make it clear from the outset that, as long as I am ever as I am after the last reform of the Ministry of Interior, either by making public or private meetings with the representatives of the WTO - OTA and the associations of contractors in cleanliness, I have not created the slightest expectation that, after 31 December of this year, the conventions of these people would be converted into an indefinite period of time. This, which is adopted in various ways, is completely inaccurate. On the contrary - and this seems to be the case in the Minutes in Parliament, as well as in my public statements, my interviews on either radio or television - divided those cases of the tens of thousands of contractors in other areas - whether self-government or the public sector, the wider public sector, at the Open University, in hospitals - where for decades they have been working, covering fixed and continuous needs with constantly renewed contracts. And I even called on all parties to sit down in a neutral political time, to bend on the problem and to be able to provide a solution, a solution to a problem that comes from the old, a problem arising from a practice of bi-partyism, the past of old and powerful bilateralism, which was obviously not neutral politically and wanted to have these workers hostage. So will we sit down and think of such a solution, which is compatible with our Constitution, and of the European directives relating to the abuse of the convention? It's an open invitation and challenge for everyone. On this should be placed without second discussions and without press reports "go to create a new party or to charge the state budget", because you know that these people are already working, being paid, so there is no question of an extra burden. Moreover, there are so many years that they cover these positions that if anyone could be accused of appointments on party criteria, the only one who could not be blamed would be the present government. You know that well, but you are truly hostage to your ideals, your temptation, an extreme anti-social neoliberalism. And it's incomprehensible why you don't want to give a solution to this. It is a different matter with these contractors. We know that the practice of constantly renewed contracts and cleanliness eventually creates other kinds of problems. We were told by the Court of Auditors. What did the Court of Auditors tell us? He said to us: "Listen, gentlemen, on the basis of practice, it is essentially recognised that these people are not seasonal, as you name them, but they cover lasting and constant needs". And he invited us to find a solution. That's what we're trying to do right now. We are therefore trying, on the basis of the Court of Auditors' reasoning, but also on the basis of the exceptional situation that has been created - which we all see on the streets, it is visible, it is the conditions for heat, the health threats, the problems that are created in an increased tourist season - to enable self-government by means of the means available to cover any gaps and to lead to new contracts for as long as we have to do so. What's the self-evident thing? Permanent and stable jobs, at last, in cleanliness! How are these going to come about? On the basis of the existing legislation, based on the demands made by the municipalities. You know very well that the limit that exists is that the payroll, through which these services are paid, must cover the payroll budget for the workers. The mayors have the responsibility, through the agencies we give them the opportunity to update, to submit their needs. Let's start with two and a half thousand jobs. There can be a lot more. We give the opportunity through rapid evaluations of the new agencies, to put rules in this blurred landscape at last. Do you want it, yes or no? The answer from the New Democracy was given by the Chief of Officerial Responsibility: No. It is currently proposing: 'Give them the titles and dismissals'. He's not just standing there, he's continuing. It says that this crucial issue of waste collection must be a PPP case, partnerships between local government and private companies. So what's going to happen? Do not create new jobs, stable and permanent. That's what you're suggesting right now. I hear that at the moment the Executive Committee of the WTO - OTA is meeting, your resignation is directed to not adopting the President's proposal to suspend the strike. You choose at this time, for the sake of your hostage in ideolopolitan neoliberal views, to immerse Athens and the country in the trash and to stop the working relationship of the so far workers. Why? To deliver this field to the speculative interests you serve. And I ask you, is it outside what the Constitution defines as a purpose for self-government in the field of cleanliness? Is it not a primary purpose and role of local government to have that responsibility for collecting waste? So why, today do you deny the self-evident, coming and opposing, and with the overwhelming majority of the heretics? Because yesterday the CEDEFOP at the meeting said it clearly: 'We do not want these services to go through to private individuals'. So you are suggesting that we do not have any intake, that we continue this regime today. The wolf's happy. Why, Mr. Voridis? To get one, two, three of your own people to even bring private companies through the weekend. That's your plan. So take your responsibilities. I invite you here, from the Step of Parliament, to move forward: Do you want six thousand people fired? Do you want there to be new permanent jobs in cleanliness, through the ADP competition, of an open competition, which must of course take into account the conditions in which it will also be the experience of mobilising these people who have been working so far? Questions are clear. Leave the evacuations, don't hide behind a set-up report. That's not enough to cover things up. There are no second thoughts here. We therefore call on you, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment to agree - you have an opportunity - at least on this issue, the issue of waste. Can we not agree, in other words in the future of Europe, on an assessment of the Eurogroup decision, but on that we cannot agree on it? On the altar of what feasibility do you want to continue playing with human lives, with jobs, with garbage, with health? If you finally choose this sterile attitude, it will be an irreversible and completely antisocial placement. At the same time, in conclusion, I would like to put forward two legislative improvements, one on the recital and one on the provision that we have tabled, which reflect the spirit of today's meeting with the representatives of the WTO - OTA. That provision shall no longer specify the age limit for the submission of an application for the tender in question. I think it's something we have to accept. We're talking about people, some of whom are at the limit of retirement. They've worked for several years, maybe not continuously, in local government. We can't deprive them of that moleculosis. Otherwise this contest is open. Anyone interested can participate. I therefore believe that we also ensure that we are well-intentioned in the Constitution and comply with the decisions of the Court of Auditors, but at the same time not to be socially unaltered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'Standardisation of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of the Philippines, of the other part'. Mr. Theocharis has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. I will ask first of all for your tolerance, because the Minister has just spoken, who has said very important things, and I will have to reorder my speech as I do. The Minister's analysis is very interesting and on many points I think it is worth commenting. First of all, let's say self-evident. The laws on citizens, when violated, have considerable sanctions. The constitution is the respective one for MPs and ministers. Is it possible to continue to have no ratification when you bring the anti-constitutional provisions and vote here in Parliament? You're making a change of constitution. Will that remain? Are we going to continue to trample down and wrestle our Constitution for the sake of the public or of political feasibility and there is no ratification of any Minister? Secondly, you spoke about bipartisanism, that this problem was handed over to you by bipartisanism. Indeed, that is true. This is a problem with a structure of the Greek state that has actually been built over the years, at least forty years of post-population and can even before. But what is your political project? What do you want to do? Are you or aren't you the "Iznogud" of politics? Does SYRIZA want to be PASOK in the PASOK position? Does Mr. Tsipras want to be Andreas in the position of Andreas or not? That's your project. You have stolen faces, attitudes and practices, as I will prove to you, Mr. Skourletis. Thirdly, you spoke - and that's why you're getting a little involved and doing it, I'm sorry about the cow expression, "acharma" - for neoliberal choices. But is the client state a neoliberal? The way back, Mr. Skourlet. Don't confuse things. Don't just say words. Neoliberalism can be blamed for stamina, he says: "Lords, your contract is over. The neoliberal would be to be fired and cut off their necks, to do whatever they want." That is yes, but not the client state that delivered you, the client state you copy and continue to copy. Well, if you wanted to convince us that you are indeed going to oppose this client state - because I am not a sterile opposition, I always come with specific positions - let us bring us a permanent solution here or even the votes and the beginnings of the permanent solution. You should, together with this amendment, bring us three things: firstly, an analysis of needs for the municipalities. Need analysis, what are seasonal and what are permanent? In the municipality of which I come from, in Bardusia, to the municipality of Dooridos, are there any seasonal needs? Oh, no. In Mykonos, however, are there no seasonal needs? Do they have the same needs in winter and summer? You give the places in Maximos without any analysis, without any paper that says what you need and what you don't need. Secondly, the contractors are private. It's not public waste collection. If the seasonal needs have to be met by individuals, such as contractors and not by permanent employees, then, in order not to have them hostages and not to say 'actually, we want to continue and build a new hostage army', put a provision that at least must be raised five, five in a corporate form and come and do not create employment relationship rights. Do not create a new generation of hostages that you want to perpetuate them, as the previous ones have repeatedly done. You copy their model. You're not doing anything else. Third, forbid moving out of cleaning. Whoever gets in cleanliness will be retired from cleanliness. Because the train says, "I'm getting a contractor in cleanliness, I'm perpetuating, I'm leaving cleanliness and I'm going to other services, I'm creating new holes and I'm building the new needs train again from the beginning, new contractors" and so we're going on. Prove to us, then, that we will not be created again and that we will vote ten times as much as you bring. I will necessarily speak much less and much more confusingly on the issues of the bill. It's a bill that, first of all, has nothing to do with sports law. That is what we are waiting for, that has promised us for two and a half years and that is what we are waiting for so that a class can finally enter into this totalitarianness of the provisions that we have before us. We should start with the Constitution, sports law, and then the regulations and statutes of the agencies and we turn them backwards. So you're not changing reality with this bill. You're just bringing in fragmentary arrangements. Nomollagne, even for things that we could have solved on our own. Self-evident themes: violence in the fields, state-of-the-art and sports federations, illegal gambling issues for illegal games, of which we have a tax loss of 1.5 billion each year. And cut pensions! I have also recently tabled a relevant question and I expect an answer to see what we will finally do on these issues. In particular, however, we are moving on to Article 1 without knowing whether this statute will be adopted by the NRA. And there are too many issues with the general convention that will take place in the next few days. We expect to see if this formation really takes place, if it stops being the football champion under comitology, because we are the only country in which we know that whenever there is a great sporting event, for example in the final cup, we will have incidents. Once again the start time for the online ticket and for the fan card is switched. He's become a joke now. We went to the end of December 2017 as of March 31, 2017, when the previous Minister had put it for September 30, 2016. So we can no longer believe that there is will and will. I don't accept that we can't. I believe that we do not want to complete successful models that have worked abroad. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Questions for sports establishments that will drown us in presidential decrees and joint ministerial decisions. Related issues about sports anonymous companies. When they fall, create a new sports anonymous company that assumes the obligations of the submitter from 2016-2017. I would not disagree with these regulations if you proved to us that they are not merely of a rhetorical nature for certain specific groups, as it seems, and that there are also the guarantees that the new historical administrations, otherwise, which deserve to be in championships, will not take over and will not mismanage these groups to get back to the same problem in two, three, five years. We must finally continue to codify and see how, even in the field of sport, which is not politically charged, we can all work together to provide permanent solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, especially the government, the management of sport, as I have said at the outset, is no different from the other issues of everyday life. I have already talked about garbage in the middle of the summer and the Minister told us that this problem has been created. The Greek language is fantastic. It does not say 'we created it'. Everywhere we say 'I broke the glass'. We in Greek say "broken the glass". Where? Kind of subtracting. You created the problem. You have created this problem with the anti-constitutional provisions and now you tell us that it has been created. So this client state has received it from the previous ones and you have invested your permanent residence in power. I read today - and I am closing with this, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance - that the Ministry of Culture characterises the building of the Division in Chania, which has been occupied since 2003, effectively preventing the tender with which the building has been reserved to a private person. The development which is your new political account - fair growth - is not your goal. It's your main enemy and you fight it. The country, however, with a vehicle of young people, new attitudes and a new political style will find its way and move forward. Anyone who can't follow will leave behind.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I am reading the list as it has been formed. Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Theocharopoulos, Voridis, Katsotis, Nikolopoulos, Aivatidis, Psarianos, Aristotle and Dritsel. There are two colleagues who have not yet said if they want to speak. If they come, they'll tell us. Lately Mrs. Vaki. You've said it anyway, Mr. Vaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, I would like to make a proposal to my fellow Members if the other Members agree. I propose that the list of speakers should be completed in order not to wait for people and then to place the Parliamentary Representatives in the order of our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u156	However, your fellow parliamentary representatives have been asked to speak. The list is not arbitrary. It's formed on the basis of some requests. In other words, Mr Katsotis has asked to speak, like Mr Psarianos, Mr Theocharopoulos, etc.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u157	I said that, Mr President, in order to facilitate Members. But there's no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u158	I'm telling you, on the basis of their requests, the list has been drawn up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u159	No problem, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u160	Here, Mr Theocharopoulos, you have the floor for twelve minutes. Then Mr. Vorides follows.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, these days you're playing the Prime Minister and you're the good guy and the bad guy, I don't know who the ugly guy is. In any case, this procedure does not honor the Greek Parliament. Do you know why? The rapporteur of the Communist Party of Greece said so earlier. We are here, waiting for you and learn from the sites what you are doing in an amendment tabled here. And at the end of this process you come to give us the legislative improvements and to have a debate on an amendment on a timely issue that you said - I will tell you our position then - it will be resolved within an hour! If you think that's how the country's problems are solved, I really think you're deeply night in the government. I heard you say the problem is coming from a long time ago. Of course there was the problem before. But your logic for two and a half years is older than the old in this matter. Of course I understand your irritation in the process of your speech, because the days are intense and why there were too many changes within your Government. But at last, don't plunder now. You also spoke about the legislative framework - I will tell you then - which exists in relation to the award - by the municipalities in public tenders that have the potential to do in accordance with the legislative framework of 'KALIKRATI' and the law since 2011. If you disagree, why don't you remove him for two and a half years? And I'm talking about your government. I'm not talking to you personally. After all, your government has been in power for two and a half years. You've not only been through the Ministry. That's populism. You blame something that exists and, indeed, you know it has to do with European directives, as it is not just a national matter. In any case, even in this matter you are presenting with a logic which I think is not proportionate to the circumstances. Of course, Minister, the issue of contractors and waste is a problem of time that has shaken the country economically, socially and politically. But in recent years there has been a solution to this issue. There was no such thing as this, which you started again then. You remember what has happened in our country, how our country arrived at the crisis, for example, with contractors in 2007-2009, how the deficits were giggled and how the crisis was giggled. We would also expect a self-criticism from New Democracy at some point in this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u162	So, the crisis comes from the contractors?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u163	Mr. Skourletis, don't get upset. The crisis comes from logic...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u164	I'm not upset. I'm laughing. Just say it to be written in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u165	...which is a client system...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u166	That you've been making for thirty years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u167	...which you've been swelling for two and a half years at all levels. Of course we have said that a solution must be found with the contractors, and indeed through the PCA, with transparency and merit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u168	Why, what do we say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u169	We have made it clear at the very beginning that this position should be used, as should the legislative framework and everything that provides for transitional periods or seasonal needs. We don't, you know, have ideological obsessions with them. You, Mr. Skourlet and your government are the ones who pretend you do not understand what you are doing in this matter. In fact, for two and a half years you have been making good promises, ignoring, as usual, every legitimacy. You are doing the same in this matter. And that proved to be true. Instead of giving a solution to this issue that has been agitating the country for years, with reasonable old-fashioned culture, you are still leading to a dead end for people and to suffering citizens. If you want our opinion, all the evidence your Government has been dealing with since the first day of its term of office is reflected in the issue of contractors in Ottawa Cleanliness Services: Promise. Enlargement of the customer system. Disputes between the ministers. Do you really have the same view - are both Ministers here, Mrs Gerovas and Mr Skourletis - on whether they are in the memorandum or not? We've heard so many days that you've disagreed. Clearly here, in the Greek Parliament, if you have the same attitude and if you think that there is no problem. Also addressing justice a la carte. Some decisions we respect them, others we denounce them, elsewhere we believe there is a coup! Finally, to understand that these issues require seriousness, responsibility and knowledge. Of course, the municipalities must also work together on the immediate collection of garbage to avoid a irreversible situation and make use of all the possibilities that exist in the institutional framework. But, at last, we cannot trouble the citizens with old-fashioned prospects and afflict the unemployed and, of course, the workers, because that has been the case all these years. The Democratic Reconciliation has made it clear that a definitive end to the vicious clientele must be introduced, that the cleanliness of cities should be given priority, that there should be harmonious coexistence and cooperation of central administration and municipalities, with the aim of making our country a normal European country in the area of waste collection, otherwise this cycle will continue, as will the deception of workers and the unemployed. We should not enter a social automation in our country. You are actually bringing 'and five' changes which have been agreed, but which should, Mr Skourletis, be discussed with the relevant committees. All these issues should be discussed. We should go with a legislature and give you our views on what is going on in these issues before the situation comes to a dead end with garbage on the streets. Here you actually decide, you negotiate only within, internally, your Government, you bring us changes in the leg and you ask the Greek Parliament in your own mistakes to make the other forces complicit! This really cannot go on. Of course, even the arguments in the explanatory statement on some points want attention, so that you do not have the same problems again. Even the increase in accidents at work is mentioned, if experience is not there. Of course, experience is needed and we have said that people, in any case, who have received so many promises, are not responsible. But take note of what you are writing in the explanatory statement, because I think you are getting to the other end. Mr Vassiliou, as you can see, without our responsibility - the Minister for Sport is not here - but unfortunately we are not discussing sport as the main topic today. I say 'unfortunately' because this is a very serious matter. But the amendments you put them to debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u170	The facts get to us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u171	You put them on. In fact, Mr Vassiliou said: 'Why are you talking about other matters?'
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u172	Should we leave them unemployed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u173	You put them to the debate, Mr. Sevastakis. We do not raise these issues to the Greek Parliament. Can I tell you something? I have heard you say, Minister, Mr Vassiliou, that 'we are not used to mocking ears and election audiences'. That's probably self-criticism, for what you've done and what you've said. I imagine she needs a self-critic. To tell the Greek Parliament today that you are not used to mocking ears and electoral audiences, we really get beyond this! Of course, Mr Minister, you only accept eight amendments tabled by members of the SYRIZA, at the moment, some of whom I would like to say that we are not in agreement. We heard Mr. Skourikos presenting an amendment a moment ago, which states: "The artistic directors of the country's local regional theatres may be recruited, regardless of the occupation of a specific educational grade." Do you agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u174	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u175	So you agreed and accepted this amendment? You should explain to us why, when you accept eight amendments - and indeed with such issues, which at least make us suspicious of the intentions - I think you should be placed. Minister, it is not difficult to conclude that, for today's government, sport is not an investment for society, as it should also be in your election commitments. Despite these announcements - which are not, moreover, the first time they have been disproved - you said that the objectives of defending the social good of sport, democracy and transparency in the operation, sport and, today, it remains a commitment to existent pathogens. Two and a half years now, the fewer opportunities given to us by the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to discuss issues relating to sport have come to fruition. That's what's happening today. By invoking a possible time frame and the threat that Greek sport will be penalised for participation in the Olympic Games, they have been voted at some point, apart from the necessary arrangements, and many other heterogeneous and fragmentary provisions, which obviously did not in any way justify the urgency of the matter, simply confirmed irresponsible government policy. We have recently ratified two memorandums of understanding in the field of sport signed by Greece. And there's the same thing. In other words, we have not been able to have a debate. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] You continue to present any fragmented intervention as the answer to the time-consuming request, with the aim of transparent and transparent Greek sporting. We are waiting, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, for the new sporting law, which will amend this of your predecessor, Mr. Kontonis, and "will bring the new day", as you say, in the EHP and in Greek football, "will give new impetus to professional and amateur sport", as you say. Speech! Constantly words! However, this possibility that has been given to us by today's bill is also overshadowed by news. Why don't you bring in a comprehensive piece of legislation reflecting your vision of sport and a clear proposal to move from a logic with which we do not agree to the development of sport? We are called under the urgency procedure and in this bill to discuss this draft law in view of the planned 30 June 2017 General Assembly of the EEA. Why? In order to allow the necessary changes to be voted on by substantially opening the way for the electoral process and by ensuring that sanctions are avoided in Greek football. The work, that is, repeats, because the urgency has obviously arisen from the weakness of your own handling, your government. Because you knew a month ago, for example, that the convention would take place on 30 June. The need, therefore, for the urgent arrangements, of course, no matter what kind of statements the chairman of the Committee of the Regions made in the past few days, has been overthrown and some other provisions have been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u176	The conclusion of the 'DLOITTE' has come to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u177	You'll answer me. You have a second, Mr. Minister, and a tritology. I will not go into detail with each of them, some of which may even be in the right direction, which we have said. But honestly, the reason for this haste cannot be understood. A characteristic example is the provisions of Articles 4 and 5, which provide for the categorisation of sports facilities, in order to have a relevant licensing procedure, according to the type of sports installation, the whole spectators and the type of matches to be conducted. These are provisions which may, in their proper application, help to simplify procedures and, yes, we need them. What, though, is this distraction? The same kind of sluggishness exists in the regulations concerning the Sports Installations Control Committee. I imagine that we all agree here in the Chamber on the development of sport for disabled people and people with disabilities, because this approach and these issues are also being dealt with in detail, by means of provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u178	You did it yourself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, stop opposing opposition now. You've been in the government for two and a half years. Answer me. Here you are to accept the criticism and answer. Stop opposing opposition. The Greek people are not listening to you with what you are doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u181	I should like to close, Mr President, on an important point. I am not in any way questioning the importance of the recognition of the offer of coaches, the athletes who won a medal at the Olympics, but you should take into account what Mrs Kefalidou said at the beginning. I'm closing up with this. In a country that at last needs to make a generous change of policy and actually implement progressive reforms in every policy area, in order to overcome the multi-dimensional crisis, it is not possible for sport to be a poor relative. Let's finally stand up to the circumstances. Let us show as a country and on these issues that we have a brilliant tradition and comparative advantages with the attention they deserve. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] On individual topics, like the athlete's card, I'm not going in right now. You said you'd bring her in two or three months.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u182	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u183	We've been waiting for two years. In fact, solve matters, because there's no more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u184	Mr Vorides has the floor, and then Mr Nicholas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u185	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, let us take things from the beginning. It is not the New Democracy which has legally extended contracts, Minister. You did it. Did we give up? Mr Vernardakis came first and told these people, who were hired with fixed-term contracts for eight months - and that was a system that worked - 'I prolong the contract until 31-12-2016'. Subsequently, the present Minister, Mrs Gerovas, made it 31-12-2017. He has supported these initiatives in cooperation with you. Did we do that? We told these people, who had a specific and specified working time, "you know, you will continue to work"? You did this. At that point in time, we told you that this was unconstitutional, that it would create an involvement - I remember it as if it were yesterday - and you did what was a closure of an eye, which was rousphetological and not because, as it sounds, they were not hired with the ASP - of course, with ASP, they were hired by the special procedure. Why do you close your eye on this particular person, who has been hired for eight months, to satisfy too many times seasonal needs in tourist municipalities, in municipalities. You close your eyes and say, "Don't worry. I now take you to declare that they are fixed and lasting." Isn't this a conversation here? Why, at that time, did you not call nice and nice for the municipalities to make planning for the establishment plans, so that we could go to a normal recruitment process? Why didn't you? Easy, simple, clean solution. You didn't. You didn't, because you were optimistic, because you made statements that everything would be fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u186	Now should we do it? To be recruited? Should this nice programming be done?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u187	What's your hurry? You speed me up. Why? Let the argument evolve a little bit. I understand that we are on the extremely unpleasant side of the argument, but the rest of you don't think it will get better. It's gonna get worse and worse. So why did you do that? For there are your statements and you say: 'The Court of Auditors' decision will be positive'. What are you doing with these non-legislative provisions and we are here so many people and we tell you "so will it be" and you think we are doing it to hurt you and harm you? Free legal advice to the government. Pro bono we work. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So you don't listen. You create the involvement, create the expectation, and, be careful, come now and say: “What can we do? Let's deal with them. Let's see now how we deal with them." You say: 'Let's talk about organic positions'. Question: Organic sites now have you remembered it, with the volumes of waste? In the debate on organic positions, if changes in the organic positions of the municipalities really are needed, should it not become a whole and organised one? What about the organograms? Are the municipalities going to change it every five days? Now, that is, they will do it to enlarge and put the servants in cleanliness tomorrow, we will want to do something else tomorrow. Is that how we do the organigrams? In the leg? In view of the pressure of mobilization? The first question was that. I'm telling you again now. I'm telling you what I'm saying again, because you don't listen again. Question No 2, by Mr Ephremidis What are you doing? You say'modulation'. I'm sorry, is the molecules concerned? If you want to go to normal recruitment, you are intact and unmanifest and want to be transparent in all directions, why do you resign from us, so I ask: is the moleculosis provided for in your amendment? Can I account for you? The molecules taken by the specifics we're talking about are four hundred eight out of two eight months. Do you know how much maximum molecules you can get for five years? It's four hundred twenty. What? Are you leaving the twelve molecules? You call that equality? Don't be fooled. This is photographic, absolutely for these people. Yes, sir. Settlement of electoral clientele. I'm telling you right now. It will fall for reasons of equality and that. That's gonna drop. You're making fun of them again. You're making fun of them again. There's no way he'll pass. I'm coming and I'm asking you. I did not understand these positions which might open up - two, two and a half, three thousand - under the pressure and resolution regime of the mobilisation that is pushing you, why should they be left alone? All the others you put across, don't you think about them? In Greece of 24% and 25% unemployment, do these people have a privilege for cleaning services, in specific places, and indeed a privilege photographic, closed? The rest of you, why can't they go to work? Why can't they claim a place? Why are those who took three eight months and extended them in this way to exclude everyone else? Could you give an explanation to everyone else? Let's go now. This is, of course, not the ten thousand. Here's the two and a half. So part of them too. But all irresponsible to satisfy the problem that we have created. Let's go to 'temporary' too. Would you also like provision for the 'temporary'? Can I get off of you? That goes too. As it is, she's leaving. Why? For what is the so-called legal good reason for temporaryity? What's he doing with the temporary arrangement? Essentially those who are now and work are prolonging their contract until the AACC notice is completed for everyone, but not later than 31 March 2018, if I remember correctly the date. Is the date right? He's somewhere. Not later. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So make this extension. Subject: What did the Court of Auditors tell you about extensions? What did he say? That's not allowed. You're doing it again. On what grounds do you redo them? Listen. You're getting two prerequisites. It says: "Let the municipalities have put the organic positions." Good. Let's just say they put them. I ask: will organic positions be for everyone? The organic positions of the municipalities, you say it will be two and a half thousand. So, at best, that leaves seven and a half thousand outside. You are now being welcomed by the WTO - I am learning. Because, I say again, the extension to justify, even with the good reasoning, must have been organic. So the organic positions will be two and a half thousand, the contractors today are ten thousand, seven and a half thousand being left out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u188	You don't know well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u189	No, I don't know. Explain them to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u190	Please complete, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u191	Because you were saying next time that I didn't know them and you have a bad historical precedent with me. I don't know all about it, and I know all about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u192	Mr. Voridis, if you'd be kind enough to complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u193	You have a bad historical precedent. Just watch it. I'm done. I repeat, I have no objection to having theoretical ideological and political debates. But when we go on the field, there's counted beans. On counted beans I can't help knowing them. I know what I know. I am not saying that I am infallible, but I want to hear the argument that overthrows this particular one. The second issue you have and I shall conclude, Mr President, is that you say that we are in an emergency. Because of what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u194	Emergency.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u195	Of course there is an emergency, which is created by the mobilisations. We do not hire and solve issues on this basis because there are mobilisations. Dismiss the two months. Why? Discard the eight months. Why? The Court of Auditors will ask you, not me, to God. I'm just thinking. You reject the possibility of Article 61 of the law. What does the law say, ladies and gentlemen? That's dignified. You don't like it? Change it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Voridis, please complete your thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u197	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u198	You've spent your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much for your understanding of your tolerance. I appreciate it very much, but I'm finishing the argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u200	We're closing in ten seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u201	So what does Article 61 say? Amongst a number of possibilities it says that, if the municipality so wishes and decides, the municipal council with 50% plus one, and justifies its decision, taking into account its financial data, may entrust the provision of the cleaning service to individuals. Does it say it? Is that so? Have you changed it? Oh, no. Is this legal possibility available?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u202	Is that what you want? So we should do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u203	I'll tell you what I want, Mr. Barca, because you're so handsome and shredded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u204	Yeah, but that's not how we do business.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u205	Because that's what I want. You know what I want? I want us to trust self-government. That's what I want. I want legal opportunities to exist in the hands of the municipalities. I want Ikaria to be able to decide how she will collect her waste and not be decided by Skourletis, the Minister in Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u206	Well, thank you, Mr. Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u207	But you don't want this. You, entangled in the destruction and chaos you have created, make arrangements for Mr. Tsipras to appear as if he were the ones that he was entangled. That's not going through. Nobody believes you. You are now hostage to the situations that you yourself have created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u208	Thank you very much. The Minister for the Interior has the floor, Mr. Skourletis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u209	I think some clarifications are necessary. First of all, we need to know. This must not be confused and I would ask you to tell the President of your party as well. Indeed, who is appointed to self-government is not the case of any government and any minister. It is determined by the municipalities' organizations, specific organic positions, requests to cover any gaps but also by the amount of return revenues. That's done, it's answered. So the government does not appoint itself to self-government. Because you speak here and give the impression that we are going to impose new state officials. That's what I don't know where might happen. It can be in North Korea, which is the example you're constantly referring to. They don't happen here as provided for by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u210	Get away from you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u211	From there, you tell us about the two months. So, should we do a couple of months? Shall we do a second two months, third two months? To run counter to the very reasoning of the Court of Auditors. Read the Court of Auditors, which is a supreme court and says: Take care, in addition to the specific cases of the holiday areas, which you have said, so there will always be a greater number of contractors than permanent posts, otherwise these positions must be fixed, permanent and permanent. Who's going to make this delineation? The municipalities. What do you deny with your proposal? That right of the municipalities. And you tell them, wanting to impose your own view of things: 'Masters, do PPPs'. Because if you do PPP, you won't make permanent recruitments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u212	Do what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u213	Article 61, which you refer to, says that all possibilities must be exhausted beforehand. If it is not possible for the municipality by own means to cover this service, then it should appeal to the private companies. You did not say that in the reference you made to Article 61. Why? Because your target is obvious. You know what you want and I recognize it for you? You said that. You want individuals in the trash, not only on the question of processing and management, on the issues of recycling and all that is now happening, which are popular issues, you want to see it even at this primary level. Because it is a very specific dogmatism, at least that's how I understood it. Secondly, you and Mr Theocharopoulos spoke of the return services before. What does reward services mean? That these are paid by you, by me and by all those who are here, through the electricity bills. These costs are neither the budgets of the municipalities nor the state budget indirectly. Yes or no? Yeah, and just with that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u214	Oh, no. You've changed the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u215	You're wrong. You are talking about an exceptional case, which has also been possible from other revenues to finance this expenditure. These services are fully rewarding. Study it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u216	Mr President, then I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u217	That is why we have agreed that they are excluded from the rule of 1 to 4, and that has been reflected in the legislation which we had as a government, with the so-called 'parallel programme'. It is Article 7 of Law No.4368/2016, which specifically exempted from the rule of recruitment and pensions in the public sector cleanliness when it comes to HR and PR. Do you hear that, Mr. Voridis? So we will talk about this. It has been heard that we are bringing changes to 'and five'. I do not understand this criticism today. Of course, we will also bring 'and five' to 'approximately five' when this waste is involved. So what do you want? Don't make any meetings? Don't make any consensuals? Do you want to pass this on from the committees? Should we take it to four committees, call the bodies hearing, and get the trash piled up? So, Mr. Theocharopoulos, can you not understand that there should be other kinds of reflexes when public health is at stake? What kind of parliamentary populism is this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u218	You're destroying what we're talking about. We should have done it properly, we said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u219	You once progressive ones eventually compete to become more neoliberal than genuine neoliberals. Oh, my God! Organograms. On 15 February, the limit set by Mrs Gerovasili with her circular to everyone in the public sector was expired, and I then to the OTAs to present the new agencies, which is a precondition for the new mobility system, on 15 February. So no surprise. Planned work, methodically and as planned. But you seem to ignore this and it is rather specific. Modulation. Mobilisation for all and those who were in the specific eight months and others who have worked in the past is provided for by this provision. The mobilisation of the work experience is not the only criterion. Unemployment, for example, has much more molecules. So there is a multiplicity of conditions at the moment, which is spreading accordingly. S.A. is responsible for it, so your argument is not correct, which you say is a closed, photographic contest. So what could be done at this stage? Because the emergency is not only the result of the mobilisations or the tumor of the garbage. It results from the objective reality, which creates exceptional situations, urgent situations, following the implementation of the Court of Auditors' decision and the lack of prior to such planning, so that solutions have been put in place. Everyone expected that we would have the maximum limit of 31 December of the year. Secondly, regarding the statement you referred to, the personal statement. I have never tried to replace the Court of Auditors. What I said and what I think you might agree, too, is another and I honestly accept if you want to give me free legal advice, give me the phone, exchange phones, is an opportunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u220	I'll give you the phone, but not for free.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u221	But the statement I made about the Court of Auditors is an assessment of what has been achieved, which is the case-law of the Court of Auditors itself. I cannot imagine Greek judges not wanting to pay people who may not know that they would be judged - and they did not know - that they did not know that they would be judged - illegally their employment relationship and the extension of the employment relationship. It's the known error you're saying. He hasn't been judged on the step, we're waiting for it. Because you consider that it will probably be this decision, you are bringing us 'baby guys' - that is now the reason why you are moving - and you are tabling an amendment to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u222	Are you accepting our amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u223	This amendment has some other things to do with it. Make it naked and clear and we'll see, but before that, we have to wait for the step decision. Isn't that right? As a lawman, you know them better than I do. In any case, I think this is a proposal which at this time tries to opt for the best solution. If you want me to inform you, in order to take this into account and for your further interventions, moleculosis is also foreseen for children, moleculosis is also provided for the multiples, moleculosis is also foreseen for unemployment, etc. And he goes by saying. So, at the moment, let the arguments which they offer in one single thing, to promote this obsession to deliver the garbage to individuals and deny them the continuation and not the extension, it is not an extension, it is under extremely urgent circumstances, and it is a continuation of a working relationship potentially, we do not oblige, 'possibly', this amendment says, does not oblige the mayors to do so, so it does not make a way out and, above all, puts things on a proper basis by promoting permanent, stable working relationships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u224	Thank you. Mr. Nicolopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u225	Ladies and gentlemen, what does the world want from us? Is it the citizens who have been talking these days with us all and with Mr Vorides and others? What are they telling him, what are they telling us to say here in Parliament, and what are they telling us, in which directions, to push things? Are we told that the workers' problems need to be solved and the garbage packed? If this is the case this morning, and people say that we can be close to a solution, is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, from this step forward, to show that so much regret and regret, why might a solution be found? So who are the ones who said here to any congressman "go over there and tell the garbage that Bobolas collects, because it's a golden job". So, let's understand. You know, I say this because the friend, the good parliamentary, Mr Vorides, said, 'Let's get things started', so it started. I don't know what the beginning is for Mr. Voridis. For me, the principle is that which was the main one, in which I was born and raised, by Constantine Karamanlis. What did he say clearly? What Mr. Voridis and I probably voted for, namely, that all contractors, with the famous Pavlopoulou law... How many? A hundred thousand? That's where some people say they might have been a little less. Because it was popular, the party then, because the party then said the interests of the workers, the whole House voted for it, the whole... Today, what is this now? What the fuck's got to do with the Mitsotakis? Now listen to what Mitsotakis says. Listen, I read it exactly: 'There can be no permanentisation outside the constitutional framework and the financial possibilities'. Has the Constitution changed? But he said, Mr. Minister, Mr. Vorides: "Take our know-how," he says, "Come on, tell you how the S.E. is done. to make decisions that we want, let us tell you how the Legal Council can make decisions, which you have not yet learned, come here and tell you." Whether we put the judges in the 'Dynan' free', we either give them "gifts" or we don't open bills or prescribe, as with the channels, that this law will never pass. They're calling it up, and the Midian rulers write it. He says, "Come on, but you will never wake up, tell you how it's done?" He said it today. It's very clean, and I don't think I should waste any more time, because they all understand. They understand from the criticisms made here by the spokesman to Mr Mitsotakis. I am wrong now Mr Voridis, but I want to say where he got the letter, to say: 'You are with the workers and you are wrong with making photographic provisions. We want to make photographic devices if they are for a pimp. We'll do it for him, and we'll be proud. You keep the garbage.’ Hey, we'll keep them, Mr. Voridis! You keep the elite of all these horsemen, who are not ashamed or are not going to pay the hospitals of their mother-in-law and mother. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that improvements are being made to Law 2725/1999, because it is indeed a law that has grown old and several articles need to be updated, as is the case today. However, the paths of Greek sport and the legislative level are well known and I would also break open doors here if I said very specific cases. That is enough, Minister, today's headlines for all the thanks of the EP, but I do not have much time to refer to, even though I have dealt with them many times. It is necessary, in fact, to remove all these pathogens, and the draft law being discussed today, I believe, is moving in the right direction. It does not, of course, solve all the unresolved problems of sport, which have already been multiplied by the acute economic crisis. It can be seen, however, that the intentions of the political leadership of sport are in line with the fanatical requirements. The sixteen articles, therefore, of the proposed draft law meet with the common sense, and I would like to stress this. Of course, these amendments should have taken place long ago. But you don't get bored late than never. So I say the same thing about Article 10, which gives the possibility of a second, free-of-charge opportunity to sports limited companies. I, too, was one of those who, by exercising parliamentary control, i.e. in transparency, urged the Minister, Mr Vassiliou, to adopt the anguish of bankrupt groups and to turn it into hope. I did it because I was humiliated and interpreted exactly this passion for football of prominent, successful success in each other's jobs. They're not shipowners, they don't have any media, they don't have any oil. One has a vulcanizer, but he has the best vulcanizer in Patras. They're biopatients. They did the Panachian Alliance - so they said - and they have an ambition to regenerate the historical Panachian. However, please do not rush, please, to say that I have a positive attitude toward the draft law because the group of my own country is being facilitated. It would have been if the proposed regulation were a charismatic act to the detriment of the public interest. We know that in the past there have been governments that have acted scandalously, gracefully, in PPAs, and even in wealthy people, who did not want to put their hands in the pocket and say that people should pay for it. We know. Today, however, that is not the case. I think the Minister is doing what is self-evident and just and correct. The debts are accounted for by those who created them. So the public's right to collect money is guaranteed, and so the second opportunity is given to clubs in the country, including Panahikos, who have probably been hurt in the past and have been found with unbearable debts, who have fatally undermined their sporting activity and in the end have been suffocated by economic suffocation. It would be unfair for historical groups to suffer a lifelong punishment and to lead to extinction. Fortunately, this is not going to happen, thanks to Article 10. In conclusion, I would like to conclude by focusing particularly on this so-called second opportunity, which concerns all the manifestations of the economic life of the country. There's a morbid perception in our country of business. It goes without saying and is treated hostilely in many cases, because state-owned so-called entrepreneurs have been entitled. Look at them, they're all sea-loving! This keeps the baget and unfortunately is dissatisfied and becomes strong. So if we want to leave a deposit in the next generations, we have a duty to make the state a citizen-friendly State and private initiative. It must not be a glimpse, Minister, and it must not be an exception. On the other hand, it must be the starting point for society to be convinced that we have the will to re-establish the state and put it in the service of the citizen. Thank you very much, Mr President of the JRC, for having preceded me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. Previously, we have to say that truths have been heard about the classic functioning of the state mechanisms, in order to ensure the implementation of this policy that comes to meet the needs of capital, whenever necessary. So it is well known that many of these decisions are found to be constitutional because they are serving the real authority of this country. Our rapporteur has referred to the bill in detail. It will also be mentioned in the amendments accepted by the Minister. I want to dwell on the amendment from the Ministry of the Interior. What are the issues? First of all, the garbage, which creates a shameful situation and rightly the people want to gather. Secondly, they are the contractors who gather the garbage, who are fired, but the garbage with the government's responsibility remains. Thirdly, it is the business groups, which have long been waiting for the mayors - using the legislative framework that allows them - to entrust them with cleanliness. Fourthly, they are the "fucking" mayors of the Boutari type who, if they are not the same entrepreneurs, zealously defend the concession of the services, which will be called upon for many times by the public to pay very expensively - and like in some countries that pay for the garbage - through the increase in municipal fees. The government has taken this amendment and its eye has turned it into a stop to the movement of workers. He's trying to shake the situation, throw ash in their eyes. The government's been on a road for a while now, he's been carved. What's that road? The promotion of investment, privatisation, the friendly environment for investors and, of course, in the area of cleanliness, collection, in general the management of waste and the enhancement of reciprocity, which has made a great deal of progress, and of course the taxation of the people themselves. Under pressure from the mass mobilisation of the contractors and their determination to claim a permanent and stable job for all, this amendment has been tabled below. Two and a half years now, Minister, not only did it not change the legislative framework, but it is under the ongoing recruitment ban and expanded subsistence that created the ground for the promotion of privatization in the field of cleanliness. It is an area that, from Mr Boutaris' point of view, the big businessmen expect to grab. You've been lying to the workers for years now. You were talking about simulations and say - so you have now said here - that you have never created such expectations for workers. That is what you said earlier here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u228	To these people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u229	To these people? Once again, the workers concerned must listen to the fact that this government has never created expectations for their permanent status. Today, of course, you have discovered the constitutional empire, you make it quite clear that you want to, but you cannot. Instead of creating permanent jobs and joining all those workers with flexible employment relationships, the unemployed, you continue this scheme to strengthen flexible working relationships, and you baptise them, of course, that they are permanent needs, such as cleanliness in municipalities, hospitals, as temporary or temporary ones. Truly, in the "Evangelism" from all the arrangements you have made and directed these workers, the contractors, how many were left out? Can you please inform the House here? 70% of those who went to the ADP and were modulated with what you promised them are out of work. We say this, so that the contractors, who have expectations, can hear it. You are, of course, trying to strengthen them through your position. The contractors once again brought to the fore the issue and the necessity of stable work, have highlighted the terms and conditions for covering this right to all workers in the public and private sectors - and we, as a JRC, call on the workers and the public and private sectors to generalise this fight for a stable and permanent job against this whole jungle, gala, created by you and by the New Democracy and the previous governments in recent years - conditions that conflict with the logic you have put in this amendment, that the municipality must have obtained compensation for the payment of workers. That is to say, the people again have to pay for basic services, which should be guaranteed by the state budget, which, of course, are the employees, the pensioners, the people. Even what is laid down in Article 102(5) of the Constitution does not comply with, namely that the State must take the legislative, regulatory and budgetary measures necessary to ensure the financial autonomy and resources necessary for the fulfilment of the mission and the exercise of the powers of the Local Government bodies. Any transfer of powers from central or regional bodies of the State to local government also entails transferring the corresponding resources, i.e. the resources corresponding to these responsibilities being attributed to the LAGs. You in the memorandum signed out of EUR 5 billion 400 million for the municipalities to go to 3 billion 400 million. You removed 2 billion euros from the municipalities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u230	You're wrong. 5 billion 400 million was the ceiling never fulfilled. Why misinformation?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u231	You now as a government wrote it in the Memorandum, from 5 billion 400 million went to 3 billion. You removed 2 billion from the municipalities! Don't give up on that. Instead of self-government going on in equal numbers with the servants with fixed-term private-law contracts, organic staff jobs in each municipality, you ask the municipalities to make an assessment of the needs in order to take over your responsibility. And if some municipalities ask for fewer positions or at all, why do they want to promote privatisation, such as Boutaris and other mayors - "loof" of business groups, then they will not have the necessary returns. You move on to redundancies of thousands of workers and try to "gold the pill" and take the blame off you. You are moving on to redundancies, because you are supporting the delivery of the areas of responsibility to the OTAs, of all profitable responsibilities, to the business groups despite what you are saying. If you really want them not to go to business groups, you have nothing but to abolish the legislative framework that allows it. But you leave it intact. Thus, business groups have long prepared to take this "fileto". Minister, this regulation, despite the effort that has been made, the meeting you have had today, does not respond to the concerns and demands of all those who are now struggling to ensure their jobs. For all contractors the demand for permanent and stable work can be met in a pure and political way by the government now transforming the contracts into an indefinite period of time. This will satisfy their demand and the municipalities will have the necessary workers for cleaning. Their reinforced premium, as provided for in the amendment, does not exceed the modulation of other criteria, which means that it does not guarantee the work of the already contractors. I also mentioned the example of the 'Evangelism'. The removal of the age limit of fifty, set by the original amendment, is a step for all those who are at the difficult age of fifty to sixty-seven, who have raised the age limit for retirement. However, we want to point out that this in itself cannot ensure that they are recruited by the AACC, as provided for in the arrangement. These changes, which are incorporated, cannot compensate for the substance of the regulation, which announces the redundancies of most contractors, which provides for a separation without even referring to the number of positions to be taken, but also to the conditions laid down by the government, will only concern part of the current contracts, two and a half thousand, the basis, as the Minister said, on the basis of the positions which have been given so far. We recall that the Memorandum of Understandings, which have also been reflected in the medium term, for OTAs, provide for zero recruitments for 2018 and 2019. We also recall that there is a competition, Minister, for permanent recruitment to the municipalities since 2009, which have not yet been recruited. With regard to new contracts, it is clear that not all contractors are involved. It refers only to those who are in cleanliness, whose renewal of contracts depends, as the arrangement says, on decisions of the municipal councils, which ‘may, by reasoned decision, employ in the respective positions of those who provided those services up to 7-6-2017’. This means that the contractors will enter a basket and choose them from each municipal authority. What is the content of the'reasoned decision'? Therefore, by hand, the new contracts do not concern all workers or at best the municipal authorities will decide. We will also note that it is not by chance that the phrase 'equivalent positions' or at least raises many questions. This expression is linked to the issue of organic positions that each municipality will say is seeking permanent recruitment. Therefore, since then, and whether or not the municipality concerned will make a correction to the Agency for the creation of new posts, so at the end of August, on the basis of the regulation and the first paragraph which states how the respective positions will be identified and the second paragraph of the second paragraph, which determines why existing contractors can deal with new contracts without establishing other rights. On the basis of the above, the Government is mocking and encroaching on contractors and on the renewal of contracts. You are mocking, Minister, and the people who are asking - and logically - to gather the trash. As for the competition for new, as the government says, recruitment, where the current contractors will be prioritised, should note the following. Apart from the fact that there is no obligation to cover all the positions which may be hypothetically requested by the municipalities, it must be clear that most municipalities have no organic positions today, because the previous Memorandums have cut them and secondly, and want a number of municipalities to ask for permanent staff cannot, on the condition that the Committee's confirmation is that the annual expenditure of the end-of-year for the number of workers requested is covered by the appropriations. Let us not forget that the government itself has made the assumption that close to the eighth municipalities is 'in red' and only figuratively balanced by many of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u232	Three municipalities are in the Observatory, what do you say now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u233	You've said that. Can I get you the papers? The Observatory is three. Eighty, then, are 'in red', you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u234	You're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u235	How, then, can these municipalities obtain compensation in July? They should have had timely predicted making wild safari in households to have the stock. Finally, if some municipalities can afford to ask for new recruitments and new organic positions, they are the large and rich in revenues from municipalities. However, they have already chosen contractors. How will the government force them not to open doors to contractors? We said: abolish the legislative framework. But that is not what you are doing, so we say that you are being mocked by contractors as well as workers and the people as a whole. As far as the New Democracy is concerned, its position is known. The fact that the leader of the New Democracy has left and said to stop the struggles, in fact, on a voluntary basis that the sacked or the business groups should come to collect the trash, is something that the workers should take into account and take into account your own policy and of course continue to fight for what they are entitled to, for what this policy is depriving them of, which supports the needs of monopolistic groups and the new profit paths you give through privatisation, through the commercialisation of everything. And as a JRC, of course, we will not vote for the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u236	That was perfectly understandable, Mr Katsotis. Thank you, Mr. Katsotis. Mr. Olga Gerovasili has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr President. I will be briefer, since the amendment has been analysed in its essence. I feel the need to say that it really - and it appeared in the places - this debate on the amendment today is a deep ideological debate. That's not bad, of course. It is good in this Chamber to resolve and put ourselves clearly in these issues too. It's not just ideological, you know, at the level of whether the garbage is going to be collected by private companies or by workers. It is also on many other issues that appear in the debate as technical, but which are not. I have noticed, for example, about the self-government of self-government by the same speaker at another point to support it fanaticalally and at another point, which does not suit his ideological position, to reject it in seconds. The same with regard to the counties' compensation fees, namely how a municipality will use and what legal tools the government will give it in terms of compensation services which, as you all know, are money from taxation, in fact, are the fees that the citizens themselves pay and these must return to themselves without profit. All these issues should therefore be seen either on the one hand or on the other, if we want the services provided by public structures, so the municipalities too, to the citizens, to be equal and to the money paid by the citizens, and they are paid directly to them, without in the meantime being won by someone else, who will, in any case, remove services from the public. I wanted to ask Mr Mitsotakis, who said that they should be managed as the municipalities in Ikaria and Igoumenitsa want, the following: in Igoumenitsa, in Ikaria, there are private companies that have the technical infrastructure to collect waste tomorrow? I'm from the province - Mr. Mitsotakis isn't - I know he's not. So what does the poet mean in this particular case? It means that with the infrastructure of the municipalities, the cars and the various other things that are needed, workers will be rented, because this is not solved otherwise tomorrow morning, only in this way. So tomorrow morning, yes, of course, a company that'll rent out workers can be set up in second, the others can't. And they are not the big-workers that could possibly be, they are others, they hide all of them. Therefore, rewarding cleanliness to citizens is their right - a guaranteed citizen's right - and it is also a matter of natural public health. That is why we are dealing with the urgency these days by 'private workers'. How much money? So that's what we want. These are the conditions of the gala, and this development dreams of those who dream of this. They don't even talk about the healthy private sector. He's staying outside, it's a different story. So if we want to tell the truth, we need to talk about it. And there is no technical point here, if that provision - what Mr Vorides said, which is an excellent legal person - is a little like this or is a little different. Moreover, if I remember Mr Vorides, he is the first to leak the Court of Auditors' decision, because there is know-how on this, too, too, very good know-how, so that the New Democracy and others would be pleased that there would be unpaid people who would be collecting garbage for four hundred euros. That's what we're talking about, these people are talking about, and I think it would be worth it if we did it more sensitively. There have been many other things that have been heard these days, and those who are also the contractors, and what we have not done and what we have cultivated. I do not think anyone will find a statement that I say - and not just myself, but also other ministers - that all these people who work under contract in the municipalities in cleanliness or elsewhere, the next morning they will be transformed into unconstitutionally directly into workers with stable permanent work. I, therefore, and not only myself, but also other ministers involved - both the previous ones - in meetings with both the WTO - OTA and the ADEDY, but also with other trade union representatives who have been asking us for this, that is to say, the next day, everyone in the morning who has been permanently employed, said clearly 'no, it is not done'. Not to say things that are not done and also not to ask for things that we know are not because they are against the Constitution. The Constitution doesn't change tomorrow morning, even if we wanted to. It takes five years to change the constitution. So what suggests a serious trade union movement? What can never be done, or what today best guarantees that the services which have stable and permanent work from now on are not privatised? Soon after all, because we must now go to a new contract because of the exceptional health requirements that have been created, until in any case the competition of the AACC, which is based on constitutional criteria, has been completed on objective criteria. How many years are contractors to cleanliness and never hired but by these mayors who were not SYRIZA's, of course, who took the workers and took them to the offices while they were hired for cleaning, and then took them as contractors to cleaning? The people who have worked with eight months in cleanliness are thousands in this place, and today they are unemployed, as is the end of the eight-month contract, is not a worker we need to see because they are in an advantageous position. Eight months he's been working, the next day he's unemployed. So when we say the right of the unemployed, we mean the eighteenth contractor. It's the same. So what do we want to do, what 'our own children'? Who appointed them? They weren't appointed. Who was taking them on contracts? We were taking them? We gave an extension and said where it was judged, how it was judged, because we said we needed time to deal definitively and permanently with this issue, which should be dealt with by a serious Parliament. The situation in the country, but also serious services, cannot be based on contractors. The contractor needs it. When? For emergency, seasonal need, of course. There is no tourist municipality, where in winter there are two hundred and thousands, the same needs, nor can there be any permanent staff for those taking summer and winter. Of course, the municipality has to plan properly. That would be a serious discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u238	Thank you to the Minister for Administrative Reconstruction Mr Olga Gerovalis. Mr Aivatidis now has the floor from the People's Association - Golden Dawn for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u239	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is remarked that this draft law was introduced under the urgency procedure solely because of Article 1, since a final date has been set for FIFA in relation to the SUR. The problem, Mr. Undersecretary of Sports, for Greek football is not the possible Grexit, it is the miscellaneous it has suffered, a miscellaneous due to two basic facts. The first is Jean-Marc Bosman's case in 1995, which hampers the evolution of indigenous talents in Greece and has changed completely, the naturality of the country's championships has been altered. The second element that leads to miscellaneousism is the amendment by the predecessor of the Deputy Minister Vassiliou, Mr Kontonis, who, in November 2016, effectively established and legitimised by this amendment the temporary committee for the normalisation of the EMP. FIFA is an international private association and we believe that this interim administration, as well as Article 1 of this draft law, are in violating the Constitution and International Law. National sovereignty is being destroyed, which is not only about our country's borders, but also about, Mr Secretary, the production and application of law in Greece. With regard to Articles 2 and 11 of this draft law, Golden Dawn will always vote for them, committed to being a helper for disabled people. I would remind you that Article 2 provides for the possibility of setting up a sports federation with only five sports clubs, of course, when talking about disabled athletes. Article 11 provides for the recognition of the Association of Special Olympics International Hellas in full and equal form and its inclusion in the General Secretariat of Sports. With regard to Article 3, I would like to say that we are against the fan card. With regard to Articles 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, because they have some positive elements, we tend to vote 'the present'. For Article 9, we have a reservation. For Article 10 we have a serious objection to one point in this article, which actually gives a retrospectiveness, a retrospective force in this article. This is about the 2016-2017 racing period, which is of course completed. In relation to Article 12, we also have serious reservations about the Olympian secondments to the General Secretariat of Sports with various responsibilities or other bodies. We also have serious reservations about Article 13, because we are opposed to the award of skills, diplomas and as a licence in this case to pursue a trainer's profession. In Article 14 there is positive elements and we will probably see it by voting'residents', as well as the last article in the original draft law, the body of the said draft law, Article 15 on the reimbursement of compensation for the Special Observation Body. The State Secretary, George Vasiliadis, has been the Secretary General of the Anti-Corruption of Corruption. We recognize him in any case - and he is credited, I think, politically - that he was responsible for ensuring the Greek state's Borgians list. However, with regard to the intervention to the Committee of the Chairman of the Interim Administration of the Interim Administration, Mr Ioannis Drossos, I would like to say that Mr Ioannis Drossos is a regular professor of Constitutional Law at the School of Law of Athens and made three main observations. He talked about a loss of 13m euros and dark management, a "black hole" that is, in terms of PDO and suspect matches, set up for two teams. So, Mr. Secretary of Sports, you must take over and reply to the Golden Dawn how you will press on these phenomena, as well as what methodology you will take to the cause of Greek justice. I say this because, in such questions or interventions in the form of the timely questions, your predecessor, Mr Charalambos - Stavros Kontonis, instead of answering specific questions, as was the case yesterday, for example, in the timely question of Ioannis Horse, was consumed because of a misguided political argument and misguided arguments based on common sense, on designations of neo-nazis and anything else. Let me remind you that Mr. Kontonis belongs to the Renewable Communist Left, this terrible component of SYRIZA, which in 1989 had reached a figure of 0.28%. I would remind you that Ioannis Banjas had refused to remove the hammer from the Interior KEY at that time, as well as the word "Communist". Party, of course. Mr. Condonis was among the singles in the political work, if I'm not mistaken, of the dead John Banjah. I would ask you, Mr Secretary, not to turn around and answer us, because this Chamber has several colleagues who have communist ideology, such as Mr. Kontonis, but others who were at the "Ferraio King" for example, I will submit for the Minutes and for those of the Communists who are interested in a literature from Ruskaya Pravda, which tells us that in 1917 the paper of the thousands of rubles is depicted by the swastika on Vladimir Ilich Ulinov, the well-known Lenin, and in 1918 the Bolshevik Army gave medals with the swastika. So, for the Minutes, to stop at last using this argument for neonazi purposes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Aivatidis, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] You'll answer. You'll be dragged back to answer our questions. Neither Mr. Kontonis, nor another old communist neo-capitalist or neoliberal will now answer by turning. You will answer the substance. Finally, the goal of the Golden Dawn is the re-election of the Greek football. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u240	We proceed with the Parliamentary spokesman from Potami, Mr Gregory Psariano, for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u241	I could speak as an old communist, even renewing, even a sworn reviewer, but I would now prefer to speak as a contractor's representative. I think we need to discuss real events and clear ones. Mr Vorides spoke to us before, of course, representing contractors too, a particular contractor. I don't have a specific contractor's name, because I had a boss, a contractor, a great contractor, who changed camp, made a shithead, and I'm out of work by this contractor, and I'm looking for a contractor to give him the trash. There are a lot of people who are interested. In order to stop irony and close our eyes to any nonsense that we think or say or think or say, we have to decide in this country what we want. We must decide whether we want to be a normal European country or whether we want to be a European Somalia a little Soviet. If we want the second, to tear the memorials, to send them from where they came from - go back etc. - to cut them off in the head of the memoranda, to hire all the unemployed in the public sector - one and a half million are the unemployed, we will find jobs - and to hire them all to all services, to municipalities, to regions, to ministries, to agencies and to organisations and not to have this story with contractors and the private interests that drink the blood of the people with the bathrobe. We have private schools. Let's turn it off. We have a free education wonderful, and unfortunately our children are taking us to care. All right, let's close up the internships. They're some sort of private ally for cedars, that we're selling our kids out to their tutors, or we're giving their doctors - let's say - to boost black pockets. Let's make a decision and say what we want. I would like to speak as a contractor's representative, and I would like to make a personal debate between myself and to speak as an old communist, said by my fellow Members. What exactly do we want to do? What is this country's model? Mr. Skourletis, you and I used to have cafeterias. We shut them down because they didn't go well. We should have given them to the public, statized and not sold, nor shut them down. We had two people in every cafeteria working. We had to give them to the public, hire two hundred and remove these cafes. Why did we shut them down? We should give them to the public. A corner oven that a man has with his wife and child, and they're working on him, stalling him, banning private ovens. It's a shame to sell the bread. Make the ovens. We'll hire every oven of three hundred people and let's get down. We'll find money trees to pay the people. That's what we do. We should do it now. Break the memoirs. To save these lousy loan sharks that are borrowing with seven and lending us with one and making a normal people's democracy, quiet. Why are we fighting it? A little liberal. A little neoliberal. A little socialist. A little social-democratic. We're doing a little of the "Olandreou" that we used to seize. And because it was "drinked" by Olandreou, if we now make Macron slowly and make her a little "swirl", a little bit further. We have to decide what we want. Public health is the first good. The tons of garbage, called "the garbage of Skourlet," is a shame on all of us. It's not just yours. We have to decide that this is the primary good. There is the legal framework - and if it does not exist - that the municipalities themselves should manage the waste: the municipal waste management company, the TENs. Or entrust them to the private person, who will bid in the auction or give the best offer. Or we could play it with those dirty little PPPs. It's some who fly as soon as they hear the word PPP. It's a tested method worldwide. And these methods, which we used to talk about, are tested, real, and yield. Why don't we look into it? Who's got ideas? Vorides has the idea of being a contractor's shoe. Skourlet's got the idea because he's a Soviet couch! So what are we gonna do? We need to find a way, this dirty PPP and let the municipalities have the existing institutionalised right to manage their waste, to separate and to recycle and to KYTY and not to HYTY or landfill. We closed Keratea two years with the doubles and the hooded ones and cut off the streets so that it wouldn't become HYTY, Healthy Residue Area, which requires separation, management of serious and recycling. The garbage is huge and rightly some contractors are squeezing them, but we cannot say that we will renew seasonal contracts, two thousand, five thousand, 100 thousand. Why? Because we want to make "clicks"? To hire one and a half million unemployed, all in cleanliness, and to be windows, to work and shine. We had a system in the port of Piraeus and there were some there in the PPA who were wearing some black glasses, permanent and expensive. They were wearing some black glasses and so they were sitting there and drinking their fences and working on some dogs for a talisman, some immigrants and something like that. And those with the glasses, like mobsters, looked like they were our people. Neither the lousy New Democracy put them either the stinking New Democracy nor the filthy PASOK nor the old KIC. We were all. We were all at the trade unions. Others were left, others were of PASOK, others were of the New Democracy, others were of other three-seat parties and interests. I mean, isn't it? It's not that it's the ones who hired them, they and they. And we hired them. I was a member of the SYRIZA, a fellow minister, who was also a minister in the previous SYRIZA-ANEXEL government, to the government of the wretched'samarovenezels' who succeeded the wretched'samarovenizels'. It was therefore a minister who has now "done it", he has saluted, and I take his hat off, because he had a clean schedule. You sold him and he got up and the man left. When we talked about permanently eight hundred 50 contractors at ERT in 2008, I told him - not to say his name - "We cannot accept this." And he said to me: "You with whom are you, aren't you with the workers?" I said to him: “No, Panagiotis. I'm with the unemployed." To hire a million and a half unemployed. Contractors, octamenites, nine-month-olds, five-year-olds with extensions, are somehow settled, somehow at ease. The others don't have where the head of a bed is. It's on the way, in the air, nobody counts them. They don't have a GCC, they don't have an ADD, they don't have a WTO - ATA, they don't have a GCC - PPC. They have nothing, no trade union. They're unemployed and they don't have fate in the sun. These should first look into the eyes and tell truths. In the case of waste management, there is a solution and the solution is for the municipalities to deal with the problem of own revenue, with the help of any state, with additional funding they will seek, but they have the solution. With a private person? Privately. With a municipal business? With a municipal business. But be it blooming, not recruiting all our relatives and falling out. I was telling this partner that if we do to ERT then what we did before in "OLYMPIAKI", the ERT will fall out and fall out and fall out and we all know it. And now we're paying a ERT, which we don't know exactly what she's doing, what she's playing, what she's showing. I have nothing with public service broadcasting, because I've worked there, and I know very well there are seventy gardeners and gardens. I know very well that there are a hundred twenty-sounders of shifts, but when you want to do a recording, there's no sound recorder, because people are away at that time. These things we can talk about and talk about. This is in terms of the management of the public and private sectors. With regard to the sport bill, in two and a half years' time we waited from the left-wing government with the right-handed extensions, which we applaud with passion when our fellow partners are speaking here, to bring in an integrated bill on professional sport, on out-of-school sport, on amateur sport, on clubs and not on the state and the players running to welcome the giant world champions in hockey when we take the medal, but to be present in the preparations and everywhere. We waited for it to bring a comprehensive sports bill, which cuts the umbilical cord among the football teams, the armies of fans, who are not fans, are usually the associations of candidate killers and destroyers, so that we have specific statutes in the associations, that there are associations with statutes, with elections, with democratic processes, all federations of sport have a specific electoral law, that they have elections, not others with simple analogues, others with majority rights, others with self-interest and others with self-interest. We should put all this down and discuss it here for two or three months - as long as it takes - with all the bodies and set up, draw up a comprehensive sports bill and not have this fragmented debate in cases, because the Drossus wants to take care of the SGU or I don't know who wants to do what or we have deadlines, or we don't have a gun on the head. We now have an urgent sports bill, which is not a sports bill, but it's a setup. And Sevastakis said before that we can't talk about everything. But we'll talk. Here we are talking about sport and rubbish. I'm going to talk about the artistic directors, because I gave an amendment to the Minister, who rejected it, because I have a cousin who wants to be appointed an artistic director, but he doesn't have a degree. Is that right? It's not even known prestige. He is just a friend of mine and I wanted to appoint the man and this amendment has been rejected, and there are easy other amendments to photography. To be honest and not to make monkeys showing the previous crooks, while we are new and better crooks than the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u242	We shall proceed with Mr George Excellency, MP of SYRIZA. You have the floor, Mr Colleague, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment brought forward by the Minister for the Interior overshadowed the bill, which we were discussing today. It rightly overshadowed it, of course, because it was timely, the urgency, which forced a solution to this serious problem faced by workers, but society, too, is facing the problem of garbage which must be considered. We have been living these days, on the occasion of the bill debate, another episode of political hypocrisy by the Civic Opposition, but also by other parties. I'm talking about the emergency. I believe that the Minister has answered enough because it is urgent for this bill and the arrangements it brings. What happened? The first meeting highlighted the need for a thorough hearing of the bodies and the value of the consultation. What did we see in the course? When the agencies came, we were looking for the opposition. Only through the legal representative was at the hearing of the bodies. They did not listen to the bodies that were placed and said positive on all the issues that concern them. What are you doing here now? It does not concern you with the substance, it does not concern you with the issues covered by the bill. It concerns drum impacts, communication crowns and publicity lights to serve your communication tactics. Ladies and gentlemen, in your case, you are wrong to the serious issues that are being discussed in this bill. Who will seriously be able to disagree with the need to resolve sport? I have heard the rapporteur from the New Democracy, who criticised the incidents in the final cup. I must remind you that the first four teams in the championship are under punishment. I would also remind you that, in the past, when they were in things, tragic things had been done in sport and football, without anyone being blamed and punished for these stories. Who can seriously disagree with the need to ensure a status of legality, transparency, a status of administration and accountability to the counterfactuals of the legacy that has been haunting Greek football for years? Who can seriously disagree with the need to allow the setting-up and operation of a General Assembly of the OSH to vote for the amendments required and to pave the way for the elections? Who can seriously disagree with the need to have timely harmonisation with European authorities and not to address the problem with the participation of the Greek groups in Europe cups? Who can seriously disagree with the need to simplify the licensing procedures for sports facilities? Here I would like to see the fact that the CEDEFOP and HNPE were missing from the process of hearing the actors. Let's think about that. Who can seriously disagree with the need to recognise a Sports Federation of Nephropaths and Transplant? It is a provision of vital importance for their social reintegration. Who can seriously disagree with the need, until the school's work, to give this licence to professional coaches of people who took the first to third place in the Olympic or Paralympic Games? There are some amendments that I wanted to say a few things about. One amendment is the Ministry of Development, which regulates malfunctioning in the assessment of investment projects and speeding up the implementation of the law, reducing bureaucracy and speeding up the process of payment of the aid provided for in the law. The implementation of the investment projects under the earlier development laws is also prolonged. On this, who could argue? The other amendment by the Ministry of Trade Shipping concerns the establishment of the Public Authority of Ports, which has a significant role to play, the monitoring of the implementation of labour law and lifelong training of workers in the port area. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that these issues, which have been discussed in this bill and the amendments tabled for vote, are serious issues which we have to deal with as a Parliament. With regard to the process and operation of the Opposition, we think that after the closure of the second assessment, the country is turning a page, it has also gone through this canvas, there will be better developments for the economy and for our country, without overlooking the fact that there will also be risks and suffering. You are vain, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, if you continue to invest in the disaster scenarios. The country enters a normality orbit. It's time you realise that developments go beyond you and you insist to fight back. The longer the time passes, the less the strategy gap you've stumbled into. The better the economic climate and it will change slowly, but stable the psychology of the world, the more you will remain naked by arguments, the more paradoxical and the mistake your opposition will sound, the more vicious, but sad it will be the sight and the edge you will present. You're out of ammo, gentlemen, but your cannons are still bored! You, my lovers of excellence, stand firm and repentant! We go ahead, we solve problems, we open up prospects! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr. Excellency, MP of SYRIZA. Mrs Panagiotis Dritsel, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u245	Ladies and gentlemen, how tiresome, true, it has become every time we discuss sporting bills to listen - mainly from the Civic Opposition - to the candy for how unspeakable we legislate, to the fact that we are doing things and why we are not bringing this infamous sporting law. I mean, it's true and we have to think - what? - how many legislative initiatives has the government taken for the sports events of the country since 2015 - in any way you want to baptize him - and how many we have seen in previous years and have seen from 2012 until 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree to some extent that this bill solves important outstandingities and that it is not the huge incision we want to see in sports. However, every week we have to legislate, all these gaps in previous years that the political leadership of the Ministry of Culture and Sport must cover would not be covered from one moment to the next, neither in one, nor in two years. And that's what we have to understand. No one can say again that this bill is outside the logic of the government for resolution at every level and, of course, at sport. It is a draft law - a law in a short time - which we are putting into this continuous and coordinated effort to upgrade sport - and the amateur and professional one - which has started from 2015 until now. It's not out of that logic at all. So stop constantly abandoning the government that it is in situations. Obviously we know and legislate in this way. You did not legislate either, but we do not know how you have finally resolved all these loose ends that you have left behind. This bill takes serious steps towards both the statutory procedures of the NRA and the issues of disabled athletes and coaches of distinguished athletes and introduces other progressive provisions, which are consistently demanded by the sporting community. And that is important and we saw yesterday at the hearing of the bodies how much people embraced this initiative and no one was found to speak against any article. On what I want to stand for - because I think it is the most important of the bill - it is Article 4 with the categorisation of sports facilities. This, in my opinion, is particularly important, especially for sport in the region, because the small sports facilities in the Greek province do not stop falling under the heavy bureaucracy of the past, and this regulation is a step in the overall upgrading of the small sports facilities in the province. Of course, it should be pointed out that the issue of the safety of sports facilities and of athletes, particularly in amateur sport, must and must be of particular importance. Every week - this is a fact - all the necessary security conditions for athletes and spectators are conducted in the small fields of the province. Unfortunately, in some cases these gaps prove fatal for athletes and this should change. It is clear that the General Secretariat of Sport is making huge efforts towards this upgrade, of course, within the framework of the Public Investment Programme, which makes a significant contribution in this direction, and there is obviously also a different approach than in previous years about how the money from the Public Investment Programme goes all the way across the region. We are now ending the logic of large pharaonic projects, which seem to be devastated and promoted and which finance small land which primarily strengthens mass sport. This does not mean, however, that we should be reassured, because this gap that needs to be covered is also huge in this matter. In relation to amateur sport in other countries this may not happen. At this point, I would like to say two things about how we criticise Officer Responsibility. We have heard the parliamentary representative of the Democratic Independence. I do not understand what Mr Vassiliou is finally abdicating, saying that he accepts eight parliamentary amendments, slapping everything, without actually talking about the substance of the amendments. In fact, if we want to talk about the substance, we should all at some point see the following issues. Doesn't anybody want the athlete's health card? Does anyone not want any regulation on the situation in Lesvos? Doesn't anyone want to have permissions for athletes and coaches in the event of racing? This is the essence and to some extent one can understand a opposition ostrich, which is of course there, but to slap everything into a logic of the "I make micro-party and micro-political criticism and opposition, without looking at the essence of things" can certainly not come out in good. I want to say two things about the athlete's health card. I imagine that we all understand that it is an essential step towards the physical integrity of the athlete. It is an arrangement that is a real intersection for all sport and professional and amateur. It is obviously critical both for professional athletes and students and amateur athletes throughout the country. Two words about the disabled athletes' movement. In relation to nephropaths and transplanted athletes and in relation to the work of the Special Olympics Association, we are making very significant improvements at this point. Obviously we have to say again that these are done within a restrictive framework, that is to say in a situation of restrictive budgetary policy, which of course also significantly affects disabled athletes. But our commitment remains. What's our commitment? That we will seek and exhaust every possibility and every margin, so that the everyday lives of these athletes can be better changed and the conditions made more favourable. I shall conclude, Mr President, by referring to the Ottawa amendment. It is clear that there are two worlds, two ideological world theories, and that is the way to say it. The substance to which, unfortunately, no one has answered, is completely classic and as such we should see it. So we have two worlds. On the one hand we have the world of counter-population with contractors who are eager to grab this part of self-government, because it is quite attractive and profitable, and on the other hand we have the world of SYRIZA that gives a battle so that this work can be protected and that responsibility remains for the municipalities, as it has to do. Let us remember, for example, what happened with cleanliness in hospitals when it was delivered to private individuals. Let us remember how contractors treated cleaners and how much relief they felt on the other hand, when the state came and made a direct contract with these women. In this direction, therefore, I think that it is also the OTA amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue a fight which we have started for about two and a half years at all levels and in this race we know we are not alone. As much as you cry, as many crowns as you get out, I know very well that by the end of the four-year period, in 2019, the world will have come to its conclusion, which it already makes, because every day I think you are presenting your real face and then perhaps we should be on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u246	Thank you to SYRIZA MP, Panagiota Dricelli. Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr President. Listening to the previous speaker, I cannot say how the legislature takes place. I didn't mean to, but see: When we have a bill which regulates sport, which we have known beforehand, and for a long time now, that it had to be regulated - and I am referring above all to the issues of the NGO - and there has been a whole debate in committee if it is urgent or not, I fear that, unfortunately, as a government of SYRIZA and the Independent Greeks you have made the irregularity rule. And, you know, when there is time pressure to go through some measures, either because a Eurogroup is on the table or because a summit is on the table, then bring it as a matter of urgency and as an urgency. However, a bill that I told you before, in the sense of urgency, you have been very well aware of the arrangements for a long time, starts to worry about us. We have often called on the Bureau and the Conference of Presidents to stop this and unfortunately it seems that you are making this a rule. Perhaps if the New Democracy did not react by its rapporteur, Mrs Karamanlis, to the committee, perhaps this bill would come again using the method of urgency or urgency, without the relevant bodies being heard and, in fact, going through a fast track procedure. I really wonder, what is the government afraid of, what is SYRIZA afraid of, what are the Independent Greeks afraid of? Don't you want the bills discussed with the normal procedure? You cannot constantly, Ministers, invoke matters that you know in advance and baptise bills as urgent. Let's go to the rough legacy, too. A number of amendments have been tabled. Some are related and some are not. But if you see the bill how it came - because I like the numbers - you will see that from the fifteen pages of the bill nine, that is three fifths, they are actually amendments. The six pages concern sport bills, and if we go from Article 16 et seq., which concerns the amendments, it is basically nine pages. Isn't that a swagger of rough legacy? Nine out of fifteen pages of the bill relate to amendments, apart from the amendments that have been tabled today, parliamentary or ministerial. So why are you complaining when they say you're legislating manually? I think it is something that at some point - I say it for now, I say it for the future - must stop in this Chamber. It is not an excuse, of course, that 'you know, the previous ones did it.' I have heard that many times. Your government was supposed to come here to bring in another parliamentary morale and, unfortunately, you are following methods worse than those of the past. It is something that must concern us all. Very soon I will go into some articles in the bill concerning amendments. Article 17, for which we are negative. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, if anyone wants to sanctify, they cannot! I am trying to understand, Minister, what you want to do with Article 17, which relates to an amendment from the Ministry of Development. You come today with a decision of the Ministry of Economy to define the necessary supporting documents needed for the process and any details necessary for the payment of a grant for the development laws of 1998, 2004, 2011 and 2016. And let me understand that for the 2016 investment these are what they need. I am sorry, however, that we are talking about investments which have basically been completed and should have been checked. In fact, some of them were somehow concluded in a way that might not be fair with the requirements of development laws and some of them are still pending in the courts. What are you doing with this article? Do you legitimize them in retrospect? With regard to Article 18, this amendment is proof of the government's inability to complete the quality plans of the earlier development laws, whose debts unfortunately remain at an unprecedented level of around EUR 4 billion. Unfortunately, we had warned too early about this negative development, both in the previous period and in the debate and vote on the recent development law. Our position, Minister, was and remains the horizontal extension until 31/12/2017 and the investment plans of the earlier investment laws, without the condition that 50% of investment be achieved. Otherwise, a number of reliable and sustainable investment projects, which are under way, will be cancelled. Unfortunately, we believe that today's amendment on the substance does not resolve the issue. The condition of integration by 50% to 31 July seems inappropriate, unfortunately, because of the poor situation on the market. After almost a year of voting for the new development law, No.4399/2016, by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, unfortunately, not a single investment has gone ahead. In addition, while the fullness and legality of the investment projects should already have been completed by 20 March 2017, the process has not yet begun, due to the lack of preparedness of the information system of State aid. Unfortunately, therefore, a very large number of investment proposals are still on hold and business is, of course, still uncertain. With reference now to the amendments - I will not go further into the bill, because I have been fully covered by the rapporteur of the New Democracy, and I imagine she will also be placed in her second language - I will say: As regards the amendment incorporated in the bill as Article 21, ladies and gentlemen, we are in fact talking about a bill within the bill. That's what you're creating a miniature ministry. Be careful, you set up two Directorates-General at the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy when the whole Ministry of Culture has two Directorates-General. I mean, you're creating a new ministry, new structures, new bureaucracy. I will not say about the recruitment that can be done or not done, but you realise that instead of going forward and going beyond these obstacles, which is necessary for the economy to go forward, you are creating new bureaucracy. As regards Amendment No 1077/15, which the Minister accepted, we will be negative, as will Amendment No 1078/16. The same applies to Amendment No 1080/18. You will allow me to refer to Amendment No 1081/19 concerning the health card for athletes. We're practically positive. But, Minister, I think that you too would like this particular arrangement to come as part of the ordinary bill and not with an amendment. I'd like a placement on that in your dentistry. We cannot legislate in this way. It's a very serious matter. I told you that we are basically positive. It is precisely because it comes as an amendment we shall say 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u248	You're talking about the health card?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u249	Yes, sir. For the card.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u250	It was the Department of Health inside. It was a serious matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u251	Yeah, but I want to tell you something. It's a serious matter. We all agree on that. We are in a good mood, but we cannot legislate by means of amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u252	Mr. Colleague, it's integrated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u253	I make a public appeal to everyone in this matter. As far as Amendment No 1082/20 is concerned, we are negative in this respect: of course, there must be licenses for athletes and especially for athletes who are in our national teams or who are preparing for the Olympics. However, we cannot make the separation and say 'pay-on-pays'. The state has taken care of - and rightly so - and given these people some privileges. From there on, however, we cannot give any more privileges than the rest of the workers. Of course, permits must be granted and facilitated in their preparation, but not paid leave. With regard to Amendment No 1084 and number 22, which concerns the transport of pupils and pupils and, in essence, the extension of the deadline, we are positive. We come to the famous amendment by Mr Skourletis, the amendment with a general number of 1085 and a special number of 23. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that following the publication of the unanimous decision of the Court of Auditors, the Government was fully exposed. Apart from being fully exposed, it was both politically and morally accountable, of course, for both the workers and the representatives of the OTAs. It is clear that Article 103 of the Constitution explicitly and clearly prohibits - and you know it from the start - the extensions of fixed-term contracts and, unfortunately, the government has ignored it deliberately. When we told you in this Chamber, you were telling us destructiveists, you told us that we were putting obstacles. Unfortunately, you have legislation which has been clandestinely, with the logic of 'let it go through and at most - let it be unconstitutional', as has indeed been done. And you came after a few months to fix something that you created. Of course, instead of the government complying with the voices of responsibility and legitimacy, it has constantly gone on to new legislative priorities and procedures, in breach of the Constitution, in its knowledge. He created false expectations to thousands of people, to thousands of workers, who are rightfully deceived and disappointed at the moment. And they've been telling it to the government ever since. He has, of course, captured both mayors and municipal councils in an unjustified confrontation with the workers and the relevant ministries. We told you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you were playing with the agony of workers, thousands of families. You have created a climate of opacity, indecisiveness and a lack of justice in society and, unfortunately, you have demonstrated a criminal indifference and irresponsibility and have disregarded continuing and haunted objections from the New Democracy. Mr. Ministers, our position is clear. We have tabled an amendment to this, and we say that the workers' representatives, who were deceived by the government, must be paid immediately. But we must also tell the workers the truth: there can be no legalisation outside the constitutional framework. I heard Mr. Skourletis talking about redundancies before. Obviously the condition of dismissal does not exist when a contract expires. But there must be an honest discussion about how these people will actually find a job, but not the way the government deceived them and continues to deceive them. Unfortunately, this amendment - and I am telling you as a lawyer - I fear that it will also be suppressed. I have already heard some objections about private cleanliness that we are supposed to serve some interests, etc. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In fact, Mrs Gerovas says that those who want private cleanliness as OTAs actually want conditions that are far from perfect for the workers and for the reward services. Mr. Skourlet said almost PPPs are the devil's things! That's what he described them as. I will present to you, ladies and gentlemen, today a report on the subject of the 'Kathimerini' newspaper. He says the Deputy Minister for the Environment presented PPP approval as a one-way road to the Peloponnese mayors for the garbage. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Kefaloyannis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So decide within the government if you want or do not want the PPPs. Mr. Skourletis cannot come here and tell us that "the PPPs are things of the devil and we do not want them" and at the same time the Secretary of State for the Environment says "it is a one-way". In other words, this bilingualism, the way the government is trying to have it well and to close the eye to some and close the eyes to others, at some point it must stop! Take a clear position. You're a government. One Minister cannot say that the PPPs are good and the other Minister can say that the PPPs are bad! Stop mocking! I shall conclude, Mr President, with the last two amendments. Firstly, with its 1086/24 financial grants for the Lesvos Regional Unit, of course we are positive. Of course, we support the people who have suffered this particular disaster. In any case, however, we must stress that this money should go for these purposes. We must ensure this and not see, as we have seen in many cases in the past, that for another reason money is being disbursed and elsewhere is going. So, on that, we are positive. We shall vote 'yes' and I am pleased that my colleague from Lesvos also agrees, but that is what you must ensure now. And I conclude with Amendment No 1087/25, which, of course, concerns, you know, the recruitment of artistic directors to the theatres. I won't get into the process if these people need a degree or they don't need it. Evidently there are some who are of unknown value. But be careful where our main objection is and we shall vote 'no'. I read the last sentence: 'Recruitment of artistic directors, if any, which took place before the entry into force of this Treaty shall be considered legitimate'. Ladies and gentlemen, arbitrary legalizations I had heard, legalizations of artistic directors first in this Chamber! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u254	Thank you Mr. Ioannis Kefaliannis, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Mrs Fotini Vakis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, first of all, to say a few words about an important bill, which unfortunately has been wronged by the urgency and the burning of everyday life, which I shall refer to and then allow me to say a few words about the spirit of the bill, which I think has been analysed in detail by both the Minister and the rapporteurs, of course, of the parties. This draft law consists of articles which have multiple targeting, on the one hand, of institutionally shielding the proper functioning and administration of the ETUC, with respect for its self-government role, which, unfortunately, have often become the leaf of a mischief, on the other hand, is to remove the blockade and, on the other hand, to enshrine the equivalence of our citizens, who, until now, in sports and not just territory, were treated as children of a lower god. Furthermore, it is attempting to continue and complete an effort launched by the government since 2015 to combat the great scourge and an effort that we hope will benefit from consensus from both the Major and the Elissonian Opposition: land violence. What can we do? On the stadiums Greece is sighing. And the law, the law and the law are equal to the law of the "paragus", which incubates the snake's egg and incubates the monsters of violence and fascism, which concentrates and "falses" black money, paranoid economy, blackmail and cheating networks. Articles and provisions, therefore, which aim - and with errors and failures, there are no perfect legislation - to eliminate violence, let broad consultation be conducted with consensual and good faith. And let us also become some of them headlines for overcoming micro-political exploitation and purposes. Ladies and gentlemen, in ancient Greece, when the Olympians entered the city, it was demolished it says a piece of the walls, since a city that gave birth to Olympian was not in need of walls. Modern Greece also gave birth to its Olympians. So let us give them the opportunity to make use, as far as possible, of the General Secretariat of Sports, which is provided for in the bill and, in particular, in programmes that promote, promote, translate the Olympic ideals, the Olympic values, Olympism. However, there are also some unseen heroes behind those who have been cheerful and rejoicing in the city, those who will not light up the glories, even though the glories have turned their way, those who have been ignorant, even though this has not accepted them and I am certainly referring to the coaches of the athletes who have won medals in the Olympic Games or the Paralympic Games and who do not have the permission to practise a coaches' profession. The State therefore recognises its offer under Article 13 of this bill. And if the ancient city was tearing down the walls to welcome its tabernacle Olympian, the modern state, which wants to be also called democratic and bewildered, let it tear down some other walls for some heroes walking in the dark and treated, unfortunately, as second-class citizens, people with disabilities, kidney patients and transplanters, for whom this bill provides for the granting of sport recognition to the Sport Federation. And in this context is the non-profit-making Association with the name Special Olympics International Hellas, a member of the World Federation Special Olympics International, recognized by the General Secretariat of Sports clubs. These provisions are therefore very important. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not intend, it is true, to refer to the topicality, but the depression of counter-population on the one hand, in the absence of strategy, vision and design, now that the evaluation is over and reminds us of the poet 'And now what we will become without an ongoing assessment. It was this one solution too," obliges me to raise some flaming issues, which, if anything, are also challenging issues for society. Dyssosmia, then, from garbage. Yeah, it's a lot of austerity from garbage and unbearable, and it's all about us. Intensified, however, is giving up not the garbage, but a great and sinful story that surrounds it. So let us make a brief review. For decades now in local government thousands of workers have been working with fixed-term contracts, the renewal of which was the product of an inseparable, sometimes explicit and unholy transaction, a promise of permanentization, to be manipulated by the yoke of hostage, in exchange for a vote that would facilitate the rise of some to the vow of power. In 2001, therefore, the constitutional review that prohibited the conversion of fixed-term contracts into indefinite ones came in. The tens of thousands of contractors, however, still existed. The need for staff in the neural area of cleanliness still existed along with them, and the hope of these people for stable work still remains. The constitutional ban on the conversion of contracts has therefore entered another unfavourable promise. The mobilisation of these workers when and whenever a competition was to take place through ASP. And then came the crisis and the memorialities and the moleculosis looked like a godly lust that sometimes cared for ears while opening another corporation, the ungrateful tradition of cleanliness to individuals. Ladies and gentlemen, your policies of many decades, dealing with the people who collect garbage like garbage, your policies that have thrown the sacred right of a decent and stable job, are filled with and filled with the streets with garbage. And it is obvious what this policy served, in addition to the role you have held with it, the voting tool of the past decades. The transfer of modern hostages of cleanliness to slave companies and private interests, their hostage in the working relationships of France and the half-life of semi-employment. Moreover, as far as I remember, you strongly resisted the amendment in September 2016, which abolished the status of contractors in public administration and the state. The assignment, however, of the cleanliness of the municipalities to contractors is not only a heinous anti-virtual and class policy, but also, manifestly, an anti-constitutional one. For cleanliness is a main and not a complementary task of self-government, for which he also enjoys compensation. The legislation submitted by the Ministry is a solution and a way out, including by adopting the Court of Auditors' reasoning on standing and constant needs. New employment contracts are being created for those who worked until 7-6-2017 on the basis of urgent and exceptional needs. It directly proclaims on the basis of the needs of the municipalities by means of an ASP procedure for the recruitment of regular staff of the municipalities, i.e. permanent and full-time jobs. And the paratroopers, this peculiar charge added to the organic idiom of industrial relations over the last decades, along with the employable, flexible, semi-employable, semi-employable, and ultimately disposable, will also have a special pre-service modulation. Because for us, it's not rubbish the people who pick up the trash. Their struggle and anxiety concern us all. But the fight of the government is not against the workers. It is a struggle to degrade a client state that promised everything, without giving anything, that translated human lives for decades in votes and treated workers as sacrificers in contractor interests. It is, if you want, in the end a fight of defence to the last radar, a concept that was wounded as much as any other, of public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u256	Thank you very much for her speech and for her literary style. I invite Mr Hatzishava Christo, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn to speak for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr President. Well, once again, the snake egg, the Greek nationalist patriots, who are to blame for everything. Unfortunately, there has been no discovery of the egg which has excavated those who as antimony have taken over power and now is the worst Memorandum Government. You signed memos, bring measures, keep bringing measures. The urgency for today's bill I can't see it again. Some orders are UEFA and FIFA. They suit you because of the elections and you will apply them when there are other urgent issues, such as the economic crisis, which has left nothing standing, such as the jobs that no Greeks can find anymore and is forced to leave abroad. It's the wages that have been reduced so much, that even now you're working, even if you're paid, you can't survive. There are also pensions that ended up being perhaps the only income for a family to be maintained. There is an urgent way to find a way back for our young people who have left, not as the KKE officials say as traitors, but as betrayed and hunted. It is urgent to find a way to survive the Greeks, the tents, the farmers, the workers. Urgent and urgent need emerged a few days ago and a solution has to be found to the issue of licences for agricultural producers who cannot renew their licenses by pensioners and the new law has not been passed so that they can issue new licences. Producers live in the fields and in a few days they will be useless. Emergency needs in sport are of course there, but it seems you are not interested. First you should give the Greek family an opportunity to be able to send her children free of charge to both public schools and sport. You should take care of gyms, swimming pools, land in general, mainly in the province that either closes or do not have permissions and operate illegally. You should put an end to what they call modern sport and modern football: scales, money and dope. This is modern football. To family children, if they are unable to pay coaches, in many cases they are being nailed so high that children never get there so that they can get them and play in a fight. National anabolic teams exist in the Olympic Games, in world championships. And there is a shadowy ranking list of athletes, beyond their origin and country, compared to which company they get the anabolics. They all know very well that at a high level of sport or you pay and you just stay fighting the anabolic beasts or you get steroids too to keep going. In dozens of non-commercial sports athletes cannot find sponsors. The day before yesterday, he told me that a fencing athlete can't find a donor to make the tickets to him so he can go to the games. The bet is a disaster for sport and football and not just for Greece. Many athletes and teams became professionals of gambling. You should put an end to any form of gambling, whether it's private or public, especially as regards sport. The violence, now, on the stadiums and, more generally, the fanatic violence cannot be combated by freckles. Although, in some countries, this may have succeeded, we should identify the difference. These countries are nationally independent, they are not in possession. The data collected are checked and used by the country's institutions. We now don't know how this file works, the electronics, even though it's useless anyway. In the final AEK - PAOK, created such a big issue for the number of seats, as to whether they are or are not numbered, eventually everyone entered from any gate, everyone sitting where they wanted, going with tickets from AEK and entering the PAOK lane, going with PAOK tickets and entering the AEK lane. If you want to solve the problem, you must say some truths, which apply, such as the fact that much of the group violence serves the individual government in the polarisation of society. In particular, you, who believe in the struggle of classes, serves you well. In Thessaloniki some time ago we had a young fan dead from a well-known place, members of which were group fans in a well-known place. Has there been any arrest? Has anyone been located? Now, as communists or old communists - you can be what you want, as a competitor has said - you must serve this situation, to tear down a memorandum and finally stop saying 'institutions' to the international loan sharks. Mountain the garbage on the one hand, mountain the monumental commitments on the other! The Skourletis proposed an extension of the hostage - of course - political and working hostage, as did previous governments. For five years the New Democracy, after PASOK etc. With the pressure of events in recent days, you have now come to a change. These problems, however, are over time. In a similar problem in the Municipality of Athens in 2011, the Golden Dawn, through its Chief, Nikos Michaeliakos, had given some suggestions. That is a similar case now. Our positions don't change. For starters, you should understand that you have not only inherited problems, such as this is the big problem of garbage. In the meantime, you've become government. You are two-and-a-half years of government, and you must finally rule, give a solution and do not continue what was done with the law - rubber, where everyone was pulling it where they wanted to serve their party clientele and party army. You could, with meriting criteria, permanentise the workers who and want to work on this job, but they also have work experience and can do so well. However, all the regulations governing work in our country are commemoratively controlled and commemoratively required. If the memorandum is illegal, as you were saying before you became a Memorandum of Understanding, all the measures, redundancies and the prohibition of recruitment should be illegal. Unfortunately, however, the reality comes and goes beyond all of this and we face garbage mountains. The other day in Thessaloniki cars could not cross a road and turned around to get back and cross elsewhere. In Athens, problems are even bigger. Inside the heat there is a risk of infectious diseases. Who is taking responsibility for the spread of diseases, for this health bomb that is currently in towns? So there will be no solution, as long as there are servants of the lenders, as long as politicians and servants of the political and trade unionists, of course, of the memoranda that rub their hands and prepare private companies and prepare them, of course, like Bhutaris, who is so burned by this mayor, Bhutaris, to take private property in the management of waste and recyclables. Give a solution now as a government, with the permanentization of workers in cleanliness. Now clean the towns out of the trash. Do not press either the New Democracy or the Boutarians who are asking for the management of waste to go to private individuals. Give the Greek workers a fair and fair solution if of course the Memorandum of Understanding allows you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u258	The list of speakers has been completed. We're on our way to secondary school. Mr Peter Constantine, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u259	Thank you. First of all, I would like to begin with the two athletic amendments which are incorporated, as the Secretary-General has said. The first relates to the leave to prepare high-level athletes - and coaches - for their participation in important sporting events and objective criteria. We cannot use them whenever we want and when we need them for discrimination, there is no such restoration. The second amendment was consistent with the schedules of SYRIZA's sports section. I understand Mr. Kefaliannis that she may have been a little hasty, but her processing has not been completed, and her result is what is incorporated into the articles. With regard to the health card, I would like to say that this is what honors us all so that what we are all about is not being done. As for the papers they sign and have a health card, we know how doctors' seals entered sports clubs. I start my speech as follows: This is where we came to promote amendments to Law 2725/1999. I stress that this is not a framework law, which requires intensive public dialogue, which will also come. This is a mini bill, trying to compose the dissolved puzzle of sport. Two and a half years now, we are putting order in all this anarchy syndrome that prevailed in sport from the previous governments. With satisfaction at yesterday's hearing of all the parties involved, we accepted the positive comments for all articles, zeros. However, what is causing us an alpine impression is the tendency of Officer Opposition to move us on a supra-party issue, such as sport, at the same time as it itself had created the largest voting pool through a policy in favour of the people. What should anyone want first? Double APMs? The partnerships? The deletion of debts without liability on the part of those responsible overnight? The total depreciation of amateur associations in favour of public limited companies? Remember the system of forty years that voted for characteristic amendments overnight and was was was wasting money for the benefit of friends and fathers? Mrs. Karamanlis laughs, maybe she doesn't remember them. Remember the Ghost Associations sucking state subsidies and not gone to the printing press? Remember financing for stadiums that you thought would be built in Maracana and eventually there was a team court where the athletes couldn't play in. We don't forget all that. Should we remember the recent ETT's health scandal with the athlete's card, in which, in fact, a strawman is involved, who is politically committed to you and who is from my place?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u260	What's it called?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u261	It's for five felonies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u262	Say the name.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u263	Do we remember, Mrs Karamanlis, the ministers of the previous governments who took their Ministry's fund for their region for a handful of votes? Stadium "5x5" was built in your State of State of your State of State, where the smallest resident there was sixty-three years old. And because I have heard you cut out for SYRIZA's sports department and his opinion, I can, if you will, give you his positions and his work. Because the sports department of New Democracy does not exist. It has done important work, by recording city, village, village, the problems that exist more generally in sport, when you and your own minds formed a view of sport between the offices of the public limited companies. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the PSE, because with the strong presence of medieval breeders I fear, it will begin an endless kitten that will erode consciences. I wish I wouldn't go out with a veteran of bad developments. Mrs Karamanlis, everyone has his own course at the moment of sport. Because for the last three days we have been talking about a small bill and you mentioned my name, Peter Constantine, more than the problems are: we started at the same time as athletes and ended up as MPs. Because you're watching me and because you're on the internet with your partners, I'm going to give you to read my last article "There are, therefore, romantics?" Read it. I'm tabling this for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Petros Konstantinos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Because, Mrs Karamanlis, others are mentally and financially damaged for their romantic ideas, and others are trying to get advice from convicted and convicted finalists. Yeah, don't move my finger, you guys did this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u264	I didn't shake any fingers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u265	They did so for voting reasons in Athens. That's the reality. We're not all the same. Finally, because the sports department cut you off, and Peter Constantine, I will tell you the last thing: Peter Constantineas is no one, no one Ivan, no one Dimitris and no one Vagellis. Others did this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u266	The rapporteur, Mrs Karamanlis, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President. I really don't know what's going on with you, Mr. Colleague, and why you're resorting to such means and sources to rely on. You really must be possessed by a vast despair to know. I would like to tell you something which, however, needs to be left between us and that you must promise me here in plenary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u268	How do you mean "between you and me", that is?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u269	Please don't interrupt me, Mr. President. If you really are interested in what you said a moment ago, I would like to point out this: on 9 o'clock at night, that is to say four hours from now, I shall speak on the phone with my best friend and that is where I shall say it all. So please go to your friends and order them our conversation to be clear and in capital letters. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] To you, Minister, now. I'm glad you're using my expressions that it's Tuesday. It's really Tuesday, laughing at every bitter one. It is also Tuesday and throughout this whole effort in particular of your predecessor - because you are paying, for the most part, the marble of your predecessor, Mr. Kontonis - you no longer have the support of society in what you do, because society has turned its back on multitude football. You said, Minister, that the rules in the negotiation are set by the Greek state. FIFA's setting them up. Admit it. You also said that regular folding is taking place in the context of the negotiation, but it is important that the end result is achieved. Tell us, is it regular folding, should the state first wait for the NCA's statute and then legislate? Weren't you the one who declared that the representativeness of the unions in the ETUC is for your party of major importance? Now why are you ready to accept even a representative of the associations for the EVO's general assembly? You have once again spoken in favour of fairness in football by ordinary judges, Mr Vassiliou. We agree. You - not you yourself, SYRIZA - ANEL - do I mean - are you not, however, who effectively abolished the decision of the NCA arbitration court last October, accepting FIFA's Greek football commission through the temporary management committee? As far as sporting facilities are concerned, you said that for thirteen years there was a demonstrable institutional framework that could not be implemented, and that is why you put simpler rules and decentralise responsibilities. However, the bodies which are called upon to implement these rules and to assume such responsibilities have not given their opinion. A memorandum has come from the President of the Association of Regions of Greece, Kostas Agorastos - which I will present in the Minutes - who says, among other things,: "As an intermediary of dialogue on the new institutional framework of the OTAs, a bill with fragmentary arrangements, without any preparation and planning, has been submitted for any kind of information and dialogue between the relevant ministries and the institutions of local government (a' and b' degree). " It further supports the following: ‘Many of issues that should by definition have been included in the provisions of the law remain unclear or unregulated in gray zones and are referred to derived secondary legislation, i.e. ministerial decisions, which normally come either too late or never.’ [[At this point, the Member, Anna Karamanlis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In Article 18(3) - we have asked you to reply a little earlier, please - we have the possibility, with a responsible statement, that the investment entity will reduce the final investment aided cost, than was originally approved. We ask: will this responsible statement be submitted to the committee to examine or suffice its statement and reduce costs? We ask, so that we can take a position and see what we are going to vote on. As far as the licenses of distinguished athletes are concerned, I have to say: First of all, this is the third consecutive time that you have amended as a government not just the specific article but the specific paragraph of the article. This, however, is a rough and fragmentary legacy. You spoke, Mr Vassiliade, and for athletes who do not want them 'paralleled' in public. With what you do, with the hundred to sixty-five days of leave, Mr. Undersecretary, do you not ‘parking’ permanent athletes in public? You classified us at the end of your prototype to the pre - Christ rulers. As you legislate and deal as a party and as a government, Minister, you are, after all, determined to become part of the bad past. In other words, you are part of the problem and not of its solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mrs Karamanlis. The reason for this is the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr. Charia Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. As far as the bill is concerned, I shall be placed on the articles at the end. I would like to give a little more time to the amendments, which we did not manage to limit our bad self and many and many of them, nor were they urgent but rather pointless. I start with the ministerial, which deals with an amendment to the provisions of Law 3908/2011. Mr Constantinople has asked for the floor and is in plenary. So there we are positive. We're going to the ministerial with a general number 1075/2013, which concerns the Ministry of Shipping. There we will therefore vote against, assuming that Article 130(6) of L.4389/2016 abolishes the organisation and structure of the public port authority's organisational units, which should have been set up by a presidential decree. In other words, they were regulated by a presidential decree. This amendment does not complete this obligation under the presidential decree and we wonder which body to date controlled the public interest service of the largest port in the country, which is the Public Port Authority, and how something similar will be done in the port of Thessaloniki as well. Finally, paragraphs 16 and 17 provide that it will be able to be seconded to the public port authority, outside the Agency, for five years of personnel, either from the Ministry of Shipping, without the agreement of the Board of Directors, or from the Port Authority - in a critical period due to immigration - and from the Armed Forces without a matching of responsibilities. We therefore consider it absolutely photographic, it serves, perhaps, the obligations Mr Kourublis and Mr Kammenos have undertaken and we therefore vote against this amendment. We are going to the ministerial amendment on the redefinition of the framework for the provision of cleaning services. That's a lot of reason today. Nearly the conversation was sold. I have to tell you that the long-awaited solution is lacking in elementary modalities of application. The SYRIZA - ANEL Government has unlimited appointments, which are only oral. In the text of the amendment, therefore, they avoid expressly excluding compensation services from the restrictions on recruitment, Memorandum provisions which they have just voted on. After all, as Mr Katrugalos is the protagonist of today's chaos of the protractors, they still admit that the exclusion of these recruitments from the memorandum has not been agreed, but that is why an effort is being made. Whatever one understands from it. Political fraud that doesn't stop there. Every phrase in the solution presented to us today by Mr. Skourletis proves that their only concern is that the hot potato should be removed from their hands. The signatory ministers do not make any commitment of their own, nor even their approval and promotion of the request to the municipalities. They will only set deadlines for the actions of others. And it is impressive that there does not seem to be any safeguard for our thousands of people. They squeeze on the privatization of collection services, when - I will remind you - this government has met the chronic demand for large-scale concessions, which have been demanding to be exempt from the cleaning fee. I would remind you that the previous governments had not accepted this request. Of course, this has led to the privatization of cleanliness services in every great privatization. To sum up, "supply mountains and poured a muscle", because you promised everything to everyone, plundered and finally became self-suffered in your own anti-constitutionalisms. The Democratic Reconciliation is therefore voting against this amendment. Because Mrs Gerovali has rushed to tell us that the whole issue of waste management has ideological characteristics, so I tell you that today the SYRIZA Government and ANEL are isolated from Parliament, because the whole of the opposition is against this mockery. At last we have to think at some point that the country must move forward. We shall now proceed to the legislative amendment on fire protection. We are saying 'the present'. We are positive about the Parliamentary amendment on the FAO. For the parliamentary amendment concerning the election in a PCA, we say 'no'. As far as the health card as an athlete is concerned, we say 'yes' but we also want to put a footnote. You say here that the issue of the health card of athletes is done free of charge without any financial burden on sports clubs and athletes. I just want to remind you that if anyone calls at this moment in a public hospital and asks to close some tests, the delay will be from six months to a year, which means that you practically lead all these citizens to go to a private person. So hypocrisy is out of hand here too, Minister. For the parliamentary amendment on permits for the preparation of athletes and coaches, we consider it very long in sixty days. Our position is 'the present'. For the transport of students and students because it concerns a county which, in fact, has been hit by extreme phenomena, we say 'yes'. As regards the money donations to the Lesbos Regional Unit, of course we agree, but we do not think it should be so limited and "photographic". It should be more generally concerned with other areas, which may be affected by exceptional circumstances. Finally, with regard to the amendment that has been tabled for the PPC, I would like to say that there, because we are in 2017 and not in the 1980s, it is incomprehensible that the director who is going to take over PPC should have at least a high school knowledge. Because the responsibilities it will have are not only the artistic programme but also the administrative responsibilities, we believe that at least one university degree is necessary. With regard to the renowned authority, which will also give the possibility of evaluation, what committee will this be, which will judge the renowned authority and what criteria? Since DIFFITH is now regional, we cannot go back either in the 1980s or remember the laws of Melina, which, for their time, may have been inspired but today, thank God, theatres are not only in Athens and Thessaloniki but also in all the provincial cities. The circumstances have changed. I'm done, Mr. President. Will you give me the floor after the intrusion into the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u272	Yes, Mrs Karamanlis told me. You can then place yourself in an article.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u273	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u274	Mr Antony Gregos, a special speaker of the Golden Dawn, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. Today we have another bill with the urgency procedure and no consultation. We also denounced it to committees. You've exceeded every limit on the legalization and in general. We started with a bill of sports with purely sporting issues that should be solved immediately and you are bringing another bill with a lot of delayed amendments under the suffocating pressure of situations and having already put public health at risk with your policies and, of course, always with the creditors' commission. You celebrate the closure of the rating and the 8.5 billion that will be given back to the lenders. There are articles in the bill that we will vote on, such as Article 2 and Article 11. There are other things that we will be voting on and one that we will vote against, such as Article 3 or some of the amendments that have been made. At the time we are talking, because of the policies of the New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA and many incompetent mayors - there is a complaint from the CEDEFOP - public health is in direct danger and the image of the country has been horrificly affected during a tourist season. We are again saying that the New Democracy and PASOK and SYRIZA are responsible for this situation. Yesterday we were talking about cruises, and today we are talking about the use of gyms in hotel establishments, and with these moves we say that tourism will be upgraded. At the moment, the images circulating online around the world have made us internationally reckless. The customer relations of the governments and the exploitation of workers have once again led to this situation and, of course, have many mayors, who are only interested in organising parades with known sponsors or prohibit legal concentrations of the Golden Dawn or food distributions to Greeks. We talked extensively in Article 3 about a breach of personal data, because the information required for the issue of the racing ticket is both AMKA and AMD. Let us say here that the well-known sensitive groups are using or not using double LNG or some fake AMKA in order to receive allowances. You understand what sensitive groups I'm talking about. I will also put a question on this, because we have complaints from officials in municipalities and regions. The government continues with lies and promises, trying to exploit workers and at the expense of all citizens. Of course, loan sharks forbid recruitment, and in the end they form the government’s policy. Of course some questions arise which require immediate answers, if these people's payments will normally be made, what is the number of cleaning contracts in the municipalities, how many have been seconded to office services or to other pointless places? Of course, we must say that the ministers responsible have come to inform us and apologise not before us but before the Greek people. Let's say that cleanliness is an unnecessarily good and a state's obligation, and citizens pay for it. There are ways of making use of garbage in many advanced states and becoming a solution and not a problem. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he would be prepared to give us an answer to this question. They'll continue. You know the problems. We had reported on several occasions and once again did not do everything you could and everything you had to do. In order to prevent ordinary malnutrition, we shall vote accordingly in every article, as we have explained in our speeches. With regard to the amendment concerning the earthquakes in Lesvos, the island has a huge problem, like Chios, because of the continuing invasion of illegal immigrants and their stay on the island and the accumulation of criminal acts against residents. Of course, people should be helped. You must also take into account the memorandum from the Association of the Regions of Greece on the articles to which this memorandum refers. This came a little late, and this particular body didn't come to the committee. As I said in my first report to the committee, we knew that there would be unnecessary amendments that would overshadow the bill. This will obviously continue, because you have been wrongly started, wrongly continued and badly closed, and this second left parentheses and, unfortunately, at the expense of the Greek citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u276	Thank you. We move along with the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Emmanuel Synthraki, for his second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u277	Mr President, we have nothing more to add to the draft law, although the Minister has avoided a position. Regardless of whether the bill was of a limited nature, it was possible to have a debate on the burning problems of sport in our country, such as the issues of sub-funding sports centres, amateur clubs, and even athletes who have been unpaid and who have appealed to the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Sport and have not yet received the money they owe them. It's school sport measures, sports in special education. We do not have the requirement to adopt the position of the JRC that sport is right, it is a social asset, it is not a commodity. Therefore, it is now clear that you have come to the idea that sport is the same as business and profit. In relation to the amendments, first of all with regard to the amendment concerning the municipalities contractors, our Parliamentary representative has analysed in detail the position of the JRC on this amendment and the reason why we are voting against this amendment. I would just like to comment on what she said 'we, that is, the government, have been legislating in a realistic way'. What really is realism, and for whom is the government fighting with realism? Is it realism to throw thousands of contractors on the road, since all governments - and you in - have thrown them out and now you're throwing them on the road? Is an easy solution and a compromise with difficulties realism? Is it realism, abolishing conquests, which, with hard and often bloody struggles, won the working class in our country? It is realism, what is considered to be a given,'so we have found it, so will we go'? You must respond to these questions. Why is it not realism, for example, for workers to fight and claim the right to work? Why is it not realism that the contractor claims that there should be no dismissal and instead that they should claim the right to permanent and stable work? Why is it not realism, demanding here and now in the House, that the legislation tabled by the Committees of Contractors from all over Greece be accepted for the immediate conversion of all contracts from a certain time to an indefinite period? Why is the 'no privatisation of the cleaning service' not realism? Why is it not realism, after all, that workers should demand self-evident rights according to their current needs, in line with the increase in labour productivity and the objective progress in science and technology? Just the government, ladies and gentlemen, has chosen a camp. It takes all the dirty work out of where New Democracy and PASOK left it under previous legislation and work on behalf of business groups and contractors. [[Mr DIMITRIOS KRIMASTINOS]] Instead of making a self-evident recommendation of equal positions with servants under fixed-term private law, it asks municipalities to make an assessment of needs. Let's see what it says "assessment of needs". It could be done, for example, during the Communist Party if it lifts the ban on recruitment. Here's the Rhodes, here's the fuck and the fuck. Why doesn't he? It does not, because it is committed to the partners, to the European Union, to big capital. It could proceed with the self-evident creation of permanent jobs equal to the total number of servants. It could, for example, cover the funds of the municipalities. Why doesn't he cover them? It could cover them if Article 61 of Law 3979/2011 was repealed and all this legislative arsenal which provides cleaning services to individuals. We are all talking about this in relation to this amendment and on the basis of the position of Mrs Gerovas. In relation to Amendment No 1074 to Articles 16 to 20 concerning the amendment of the provisions of L.4399/2016, namely development law, we are, of course, voting against Articles 16 to 20, because we believe that the amendments tabled by this amendment are further strengthening the prerogatives of big capital and speeding up its investment activities. In relation to Article 21 and the amendment with a general number of 1075 on the regulation of the Ministry of Shipping on the establishment of the Public Port Authority, we would like to say what this amendment is doing, which, of course, we are voting against. This amendment forms a new principle, which will deal with the 'COSCO' cases in the ports of the country, where the Ministry of Shipping cannot do so. It's just things. There is, therefore, an adjective to business groups. With regard to the legislative amendments or with a general number of 1076 it is not acceptable. I move on with what has been accepted. The amendment under general number 1077 concerns the coverage of fire protection actions. Look, we will say 'no'. It's a challenge. The municipalities take crumbs for fire protection and ask them to cover with these crumbs, that is, to fund the OTA links for fire protection, but that the links will in turn give them to contractors. Mercy! It is a provocative amendment and a dangerous one, of course, on the issues of anti-nuclear protection, especially in the critical phase in which we are going. In Amendment No 1078 on the extension of PVC mergers to regional areas, we say 'no'. This is the most recent time you have been asking for an extension of the VETA merger in regional areas. The government does this to make time for the PPPs to move forward, with which, of course, SYRIZA said it was against. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In relation to Amendment No 1080 on the self-evident discount of elected members on selection boards of heads of office of the regions, we say 'no'. Do you actually know what he's doing? He requests that the Director-General who was elected should resign, of course illegally, since the votes of two Regional Units, Zakynthos and Kefalonia of the Ionian Islands region were not taken into account, and in its place that the contour should come. In fact, it is bypassing the workers' votes, rather than making their own request and the periphery for the resumption of the elections. In Amendment No 1081 on the Health Card as an athlete we declare'residents'. We believe that prevention and control should be provided free of charge to the new generation by an organised primary health care network. It cannot be the cost and organization of this activity that the unions take on, at the expense of parents. In Amendment No 1082, with general authorisations for the preparation of athletes and coaches, we say 'yes'. The amendment under general number 1083 is not accepted. In Amendment No 1084, which deals with the transfer of pupils, we say 'yes'. In the amendment with a general number of 1086 on the financial grants for the East Aegean Regional Unit, Lesvos, which concerns earthquakes, we say 'yes'. In Amendment No 1087, which deals with the artistic directors of regional theatres, we say 'yes'. It is better to be artistic directors, who are also familiar with the object and space than some with a degree, but without having the artistic experience. I say this without underestimating the role of the degree. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u278	Thank you, too. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights has forwarded to Parliament, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003 Criminal responsibility of Ministers as in force on 27-6/2017: 1. Criminal case law concerning: former Minister of National Defence Evangelos Meimarakis, former Minister of Transport and Communications and former Minister of Culture Michalis Liapis and former Minister of Culture and former Minister of Commerce Shipping, Aegean and Island Policy Mr Georgios Vulgarakis, 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Criminal proceedings concerning the Prime Minister, Alexio Tsipras, the Minister of National Defence Mr Panagiotis Kammenos and the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information Mr Nikolao Pappas. 3. Criminal proceedings concerning: Former Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction Mr Panagiotis Kourublis, Former Minister of Economy, Development and Tourism Former Minister for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Former Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Minister for Health Mr Andreas Xanthos, Minister for Economic Affairs Euklidis Tsakalotos, Former Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr Panagiotis Skourletis, Minister for Infrastructure, Transport and Networks Mr Christos Spirtzis, Former Minister for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy Mr Theodoros Dritsa, Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Evangelos Apostleou, Minister of State Mr Alexandros Flavouraris, Former Deputy Minister for Home Affairs and Administrative Reconstruction Mr Christoforos Vernardakis, Deputy Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Urania Antonopoulou, Deputy Minister for Health Mr Paulo Polakis, Former Deputy Minister of Finance Deputy Minister of Finance Mr Georgios Juliarakis, Former Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy Mr Ioannis Tsironis. We proceed with Mr Lazarides, who has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President. The previous Members have spoken for seven minutes, Mr President. I'm not gonna run them out, there's no question. I would like to begin by commenting on what I have heard from most of my colleagues in opposition, the complaints about the amendments. I would like to say this once again: why are these amendments coming? They come to correct the mistakes of the past, because the way they ruled resulted in the country being destroyed, and then they took the rescue, they made things even worse, they brought laws that, in fact, were a mess. I will give you a couple of examples. I personally brought an amendment a few months ago, with which we were able to save the land, or to be more precise about land which was intended for schools in all the municipalities in Greece. They went and forced the municipalities, gave them plots and forced them to sign that within five years, they should implement the construction of the school - mechanic I am in the profession with great experience in construction - that is, within five years the municipality should complete the study, find funds, build, equip the school and operate it, which is impossible to do. In the meantime, we must also calculate the economic crisis that our country is experiencing. What did this have to do with it? To fall down on these plots, to want to take the plots from the municipalities, so that the school case will go and then the TIADE to dive them. In an amendment we have come and saved the schools and the five years we have done so. The New Democracy voted against this amendment, as did other parties. I shall mention something else in relation to the development programmes that they have brought in. They brought development programmes, in which they had not provided for the legal framework, whereby someone who participated in this investment programme could return the money, because it could not be implemented for reasons of force majeure, i.e. because of death, due to weather, etc. There was no legal framework and people were trapped and businessmen could not return the money. We have brought an amendment and helped these people return the money and be able to solve this problem. Something else now from the point of view of PASOK. He talked about appointments. Who spoke of appointments? PASOK, the party that actually occupied the state. You know, then I was a new student in the first few years and I remember that with notes, the PASOK MPs were appointed to the public, and I tell you, I, a Member of the Independent Greeks, who we do not have a civil servant within our parliamentary group. We're all scientists, professionals and businessmen. Therefore, at least PASOK cannot speak of appointments to the public. Let us not take this as a reproach for civil servants. Alas! There is the vast majority of civil servants who are honest, capable and carry out their duty consistently and, indeed, we thank them as Greeks for that. Now something else to counterpopulation. It should be careful about the management of garbage, because you know that most of today, in terms of the profits of the mafia either in Italy or anywhere in the world, has something to do with garbage. So you cannot put a priori with such lightness and say "not take the trash to the private" etc. One should be very careful about that. This is where I have completed, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, too. We're on our way with the next speaker, Ms. Big Housekeeper. Please, Mrs. Big Housekeeper, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u281	Thank you, Mr President. I am not going to talk about a lot of things, I just want to say, Minister, that we have once again seen an urgent bill, which I think was the urgency of this and we have come to an end, and it is a serious problem, because for so many years this football problem has been perpetuating with violence, rampant toys, all these problems. We need to make the online ticket as fast as we can. All I consider to be important is the Special Olympics and we need to ensure that they are upgraded, that we do everything possible on our part, that we help them as much as we can, because they really need it. They make us proud, because it is a special charge, which I believe they give body and soul, so that they can lift the Greek flag where they have to lift it, without expecting anything from the Greek state. These are the ones we need to look above all. I can see the rest of the stuff all set up. As regards the amendment to the municipality and the waste, it was a problem that you wanted to have. So many times you've been postponing the deferral, you've been reviewing the contracts. I have pointed this out to you since March, but I was not heard by the Minister. I don't know what you're gonna do now, what you decided if you agreed. Unfortunately, I was unable to follow it, because I was in the Health Committee. I don't know what happened. I hope you've come to an end, because garbage will drown us and there's a fear of disease. I hope you've found a way out and a solution. I wish that. It's for the good of our country and health, mostly. We shall now look after the vote. I hope so, and I hope we can find them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper, too. Mr. Mavrosh has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u283	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start with something that my colleague, the Parliamentary representative from Golden Dawn, has said about doping and anabolic. The doping and the anabolics, let's not mess with it all. There are evil people who cut off the road and there are thousands of clean athletes who, with their own powers, go as far as they can. Doping is a stain for sport, it's not sports itself. So do not send messages that are discouraged for sport, especially for parents and children. A man who has eaten his life in sport tells you this, so he knows something. Let's go check out the bill. The memorandum from the Greek Committee of the Regions did not know it and it would be very useful to have one of its representatives here yesterday at the hearing of the bodies to talk to us. The memorandum shows that there was rather a poor preconsent in the authorisation procedures between the Ministry and the Association of Greek Regions. As far as the amendments are concerned, one general comment is that, unfortunately, there is a unanimous consistent government practice to introduce rather latent amendments to completely unrelated draft law at the last minute. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he would be prepared to give us an answer on the matter. I would like to ask him if he would like to make a statement on the subject. I am starting with Amendment No 1077, and number 15, which deals with fire protection actions and appropriations allocated to OTA links. This amendment to the explanatory statement states that the aim is to strengthen anti-missile protection in order to make timely planning of the necessary preventive actions. The anti-nuclear period, however, has already begun since May and timely programming cannot be end of June. So it's rather a little ayiatic. In the case of donations from other regions to Lesvos, we are clearly positive. I said some things about Amendment No 1081 and Amendment No 1082, concerning the athlete's health card and the permission to prepare athletes, coaches. We would like some time to discuss these things. If they came in with the normal procedure, we'd probably be positive. For the transfer of students to Lesvos, and that's where we're positive. For artistic directors - our parliamentary representative has said so too - we cannot be positive. Let me close with Mr Skourleti's Amendment No 1085/23 on TAT contractors. With this amendment, the government throws the ball entirely at the municipalities. He's telling them if you have a fee back then hire. However, in order for the municipalities to have increased fees, they should increase cleaning charges, i.e. to pay more for the public. And finally the "kibariaki" that SYRIZA has done with contractors since 2015, and mainly since October 2016 will be paid by the public. In fact, on page 4 of the explanatory statement to the amendment, it states that there is no other appropriate instrument to deal with the current urgent need for cleanliness with the bodies that have been set up. However, this is a lie, because in the 'CALICRATES', there is an explicit provision in Article 61 allowing municipalities to conclude contracts with private individuals for the collection of garbage. So between public health and micropolitical, we are clearly with public health. We talked about PPPs, public-private partnerships. We heard a permanent rhetoric, that every private person is in a gala, we heard of a slave race. But since you are the government, what you need to do is to have greater control and rules on these companies you blame. That's your job. As far as the mobilisation of existing resources is concerned, it is so high - we have heard it from other speakers - that it actually excludes anyone who does not serve in cleaning services from this tender. That is a matter. It will probably be suppressed if one resorts to courts invoking the principle of equality. In other words, it's a photographic device for those who already work. The unemployed, however, who could claim a position and who have no WTO - ITA to express them, never ask them. The unemployed have no, they have no voice, they will never read the door of Maximus. Let them be careful! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, too. Mr Vasiliadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u285	Mr President, first of all, because it was not recorded before, I would like to say that I accept Amendment No 1085 with the legislative improvements concerning waste. We have heard interesting things all along, from Friday to today, about the provisions we have brought to the vote. In some things we still do not understand and refer to the concept of urgency, especially as regards the issue of the Hellenic Football Federation. I will say this one last time and let us do not understand again: The dimension that existed on the issue of the Football Federation was that up to a year ago, before the change that we brought with the Contonis Act, the Greek Football Federation was excluded from the provisions of the law. All these procedures that we have seen began, the two-cylindism we have experienced and in collaboration with FIFA and UEFA at the moment we say that we are going to go to a new day in the NAP, which provides for a new statute that respects the Greek legal order and has integrated an action plan for good governance, accountability, good administration, etc. On 29 May, the General Assembly of the NCA was decided to take place on 30 June, and last Wednesday, the new statute was incorporated into it all the agreed ones. Last Wednesday, that is, the starting point was to enable this general meeting to be held. So everything else is excuses to cover up a denial, say something is happening, something has changed, and some wins have been made. And that makes me impression, above all, because it comes from political parties which had fought for a similar battle without success, unfortunately for football in 2006. Before going to the questions about the Ministry of Development amendment, I would like to see a little bit of this: we have also received knowledge of the position of the Committee of the Regions on this draft law. I am surprised - because he probably did not study well, he did not know well or you did not get well - that the President of HND says that the permits for the competitions of all Greece are going through the regions. The problem is for Mr Agorastos that this competence is already in the regions, it has not changed anything. What is changing is authorisations, which are greatly reduced and we are simplifying the procedure. And in any case, when a consistent demand of local government is accepted, I do not understand why to follow this micropolitical and meaningless game. It's a little game that makes absolutely no sense. We understand that Mr. Agorastos is trying to pinpoint the positions of the New Democracy. The rush it has, of course, to authorize sporting events without attending - because that is where the law was right and before it was changed - does not follow the importance it now shows to condemn this legislative initiative. Anyway, in any case, I think we're all just under the circumstances. A worthwhile legislative initiative has come, we are simplifying a process and bringing in a modern legal framework, which was a request from the whole of local self-government, the sports world and the political world. This doesn't have to happen. Let's say a good word. Let us give a place to the wrath and vote for a reform. From there on, about the days of the athletes' leave: I think Mr Kefaliannis has done a great deal of work here. We're giving athletes public officials permission to prepare them. The days of leave aren't a hundred sixty. It is only a hundred and sixty days in the Olympic years that we have more preparation and more miting and events, anyway, where they should take part so that they can catch the limit and go to the Olympic Games. At the same time, sailors, for example, only take ten days to clear, set up and undo the ship. All these cases are taken into account. Obviously these licences cannot be unpaid. Don't laugh. We either want to support sport and support athletes or we do not want to. If we want to support getting paid leave and going to the national teams. And these permits are in the logical context. Here was a bump. I think you'll fix it by your vote. With regard to the issue of the health card, I would like to say that it is given free of charge by the federation. As you will read in the article, the athlete's health card is renewed by the sports federations and the modification of the sporting status cards as well as the issue of the athletes' health card is done free of charge by the federation. So I think there's no question here. It is a matter indeed, and we should consider how the framework will be changed, so that there can be a free examination of athletes. It's something we work with with the Department of Health. We are not yet ready for this, but I hope that in a short time we will be able to have a solution to this issue. It is a big problem, because, anyway, our hospitals were understaffed and we are fighting for a serious staffing and within this framework to find a solution to this issue. As regards Mrs Karamanlis' question, on the amendment by the Ministry of Economy on the responsible statement, I would like to say that the responsible statement is now being presented with a comprehensive statement of expenditure for 50% which will not now be dealt with but at the completion of the project. With regard to Mr Constantinople's remarks, I would like to say that there is no exclusion from anyone. As you know under paragraph 2 of Article 8 of the BC33/2011, those who implement their plans at 50% by the end date, on 31-12-2017, which is given the amendment, are entitled to an extension of two years. The proposed arrangement is treated in the same way as all the investment projects under Law 3908/2011, as the deadline for the completion of all the pre- and post-2012 investment projects at 31 December. This regulation meets the demands of investors and is an attempt at completing, at last, the loose ends of the old development laws and emphasising the new law. As far as the other amendments are concerned, I should like to dwell on the athlete's health card and on the permission to prepare athletes. We did not catch up with the athlete's health card because it needed to be filed with the Ministry of Labour along with the rest of the body of the bill. In any case, it was in our policy. So is the licenses of athletes- coaches. Obviously, we're going to have more interventions. And where we find that we can make speeches or where we find mistakes in the relevant legislation, we will come here and intervene to correct them. I repeat why for the athlete's health card there was this delay with the Ministry of Health. But since we now have the legislative work of the Ministry of Sport, we have said to bring it up now. Likewise, we had an issue with the licenses for the preparation of athletes. An issue had arisen which is not about today's debate. It was a misuse of this provision. We solved it by service, and that is why we are bringing this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that despite the disagreements and despite the fact that it is difficult for all of us to admit some things or some bad texts that have been in existence for previous days, at the end of the day most of us agree that they are in the right direction and that they solve problems of Greek sport. I urge you all to vote in favour of the provisions of this bill. I invite you all, as I have done since the first day I have taken over, to participate in the open and continuous dialogue that we have on the problems that exist. We are not seeking conflicts only for conflict. We seek conflict, debate and dialogue that will lead to solutions for the new framework that the country's sports life should have. The problems are many, they are time-consuming, the economic crisis has come with the collapse of the entire system that existed and we have reached a particularly problematic point for the entire sporting life. I recognise that the problems are great, I recognise that mistakes can also be made. One thing, however, I can assure you that we are giving a battle every day to support not only our athletes, but the entire Greek people who have the right to engage in decent conditions, in decent facilities, in facilities suitable for an old Olympic country. The problems are many, the big problems, the daily interventions and the hard work we are trying to solve them as far as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u286	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u287	Usually at the end of the Minister's speech, the meeting is over, but because you asked for the floor for two minutes, I will give it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u288	Thank you very much. I would also like to address the Minister who has finished, and I would like to congratulate the style and the low tone with which he has spoken to us both in the committee and here. Our disagreements were not on the substance. We've voted for most things. Our disagreements and the 'present' were on a point of order. And because Mr Sevastakis said before he said that we are talking about everything from the colleges, from the aquariums, the aquariums, the conventions, the sanctions for contracts, that is to say, in a bill, we are putting what we can in, here we have a vertical disagreement, and we must end this, Mr President, and Mr Minister and Madam Government! We cannot vote everything and discuss everything. Because before I said that I gave a photographic amendment to a cousin and rejected the amendment, it was a joke. Someone else did it, not me. I don't want to appoint an artistic director with a photographic amendment. I just want to say that we are forced, Mr Minister, to speak on all matters relating to a specific type of bill without talking about all the matter in the sports bill that we need. We've been waiting for it for two and a half years. We'll be waiting a little longer, I don't know how long this conflict will last, but we hope that soon we have a full bill on sport, on doping, on land violence, on umbilical cord in the presidents, in the U.S.A., on the links, on the episodes, on stage games, on arbitration, on out-of-season sport, on everything. And one final comment on the amendment by Mr Skourletis, which I said on 'Skourlet skourlets'. Three hundred trucks arrive at the power plant in Gothenburg, Sweden. They carry garbage that is recycled and burned, heating factors throughout the region. The garbage is a big asset. It can be exploited privately, even the public, may be privately owned along with the public. If there are further conditions in the private sector, Mr. Ministers, the government will take care of the galleys, seamen or three-ways. There are no conditions in the private sector throughout the country. On the contrary, there are cafeteria conditions in the public sector that throw darts, go or not, controls us no one and we get paid. Well, to close this issue, and on the garbage issue, I have to say that the Swedes import garbage. So the garbage from our cities is to make sure that Mr. Skourletis or any other Minister sells it tomorrow to Sweden. People are asking for garbage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr. Fisherman. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the Bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sport is adjourned: 'Amendments to Law 2725/1999 (A-121) and other provisions'. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u290	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u291	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u292	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u293	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u294	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u297	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u298	The Bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sports: ‘Amendments to Law 2725/1999 (A' 121) and other provisions’ were approved in principle by a majority. We are entering the motion for a resolution. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u299	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u300	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u301	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u302	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u303	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u304	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u305	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u306	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u307	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 2 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u308	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u309	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u310	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u311	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u314	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u315	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u316	Article 2 was therefore unanimously accepted. Will Rule 3 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u317	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u318	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u319	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u320	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u321	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u323	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u324	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u325	Article 3 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u326	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u327	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u328	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u329	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u330	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u332	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u333	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u334	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 5 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u335	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u336	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u337	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u338	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u339	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u341	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u342	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u343	Article 5 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 6 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u344	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u345	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u346	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u347	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u348	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u349	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u350	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u351	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u352	Article 6 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u353	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u354	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u355	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u356	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u357	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u359	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u360	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u361	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u362	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u363	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u364	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u365	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u366	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u367	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u368	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u369	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u370	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 9 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u371	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u372	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u373	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u374	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u375	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u376	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u377	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u378	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u379	Article 9 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 10 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u380	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u381	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u382	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u383	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u384	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u385	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u386	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u387	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u388	Article 10 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u389	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u390	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u391	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u392	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u393	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u394	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u395	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u396	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u397	Article 11 has therefore been accepted as it has unanimously been. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u398	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u399	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u400	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u401	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u402	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u403	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u404	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u405	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u406	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House agree to Rule 13, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u407	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u408	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u409	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u410	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u411	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u412	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u413	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u414	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u415	Article 13 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u416	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u417	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u418	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u419	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u420	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u421	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u422	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u423	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u424	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u425	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u426	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u427	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u428	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u429	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u430	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u431	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u432	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u433	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1081 and a special number 19 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u434	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u435	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u436	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u437	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u438	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u439	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u440	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u441	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u442	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 1081 and a special 19 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as Article 16. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1082 and a special number 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u443	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u444	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u445	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u446	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u447	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u448	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u449	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u450	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u451	Therefore, the amendment under general number 1082 and a special 20 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as Article 17. Does this House accept the new Article 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u452	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u453	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u454	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u455	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u456	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u457	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u458	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u459	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u460	Article 18 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept the new Article 19 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u461	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u462	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u463	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u464	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u465	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u466	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u467	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u468	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u469	Article 19 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept the new Article 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u470	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u471	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u472	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u473	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u474	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u475	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u476	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u477	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u478	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept the new Article 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u479	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u480	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u481	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u482	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u483	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u484	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u485	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u486	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u487	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept the new Article 22 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u488	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u489	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u490	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u491	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u492	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u493	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u494	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u495	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u496	Article 22 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept the new Article 23 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u497	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u498	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u499	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u500	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u501	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u502	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u503	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u504	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u505	Article 23 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House accept the amendment by a general number 1085 and a special number 23, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u506	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u507	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u508	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u509	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u510	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u511	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u512	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u513	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u514	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1085 and a special number 23 were accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 1077 and a special number of 15?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u515	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u516	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u517	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u518	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u519	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u520	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u521	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u522	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u523	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 1077 and a special 15 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 1078 and a special number of 16?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u524	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u525	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u526	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u527	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u528	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u529	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u530	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u531	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u532	Therefore, the amendment of a general number 1078 and a special 16 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted by a general number of 1080 and 18 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u533	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u534	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u535	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u536	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u537	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u538	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u539	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u540	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u541	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 1080 and a special 18 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number 1084 and a special number 22 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u542	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u543	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u544	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u545	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u546	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u547	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u548	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u549	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u550	Therefore, the amendment under a general number 1084 and a special 22 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1086 and a special number of 24?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u551	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u552	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u553	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u554	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u555	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u556	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u557	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u558	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u559	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 1086 and a special 24 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 1087 and a special number 25?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u560	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u561	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u562	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u563	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u564	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u565	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u566	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u567	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u568	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 1087 and a special 25 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u569	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u570	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u571	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u572	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u573	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u574	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u575	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u576	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u577	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Amendments to Law 2725/1999 (A-121) and other provisions’ was accepted in principle and in Articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u578	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u579	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u580	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u581	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u582	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u583	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u584	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u585	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u586	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the Bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sports: ‘Amendments to Law 2725/1999 (A' 121) and other provisions’ were accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the articles in principle and as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u587	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u588	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-06-27-S1-commons.u589	With the consent of the House at 18.40 a meeting is closed next Thursday 29 June 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
