ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House that the Finance and Foreign Ministers have tabled a draft law on 31-1-2017: "Under the Convention on Central Customs, as regards the allocation of national collection costs retained when making available the traditional own resources to the EU budget." In addition, the Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Home Affairs, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Finance, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Maritime and Island Policy, Deputy Ministers of Economy and Development, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Economic, Health and Social Security, as well as the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity tabled a draft law on 31-1-2017: “National Register of Loaders, National Register of Private Envoys and Other Provisions”. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Definition of the Protocol on the accession of Montenegro to the North Atlantic Treaty". The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of this Protocol. Does a colleague want to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u2	Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u3	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u4	It's really serious. I asked the President of Parliament yesterday because we are going very well with Article 108, as you said, but it is about Montenegro's NATO membership. We're dominating. These sanctions for the accession of Member States to NATO or the European Union have a very great, symbolic political value, especially when it comes to the Western Balkans, Mr President. I have asked the President of Parliament to allow parties to take a stand on this, regardless of whether in committee they have voted in favour and therefore under Rule 108 they are not entitled to speak in plenary. I would like to ask you to show a tolerance. Give us two - three minutes to the parliamentary representatives, so that we can speak in plenary. It also takes the issue of a celebrity in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u5	Let's start with the rivals. Mr. Tassos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u6	It is well known that NATO is an aggressive imperialist organization and therefore its existence is - and much more so its strengthening - a threat to peace, but also to the rights and interests of workers and peoples. Therefore, any change that tends to strengthen NATO, even with a small force, from a military point of view, such as Montenegro, strengthens this threat to the peoples of our region. Montenegro's accession to NATO is not of benefit first and foremost to all the people of Montenegro, who, from the polls that have taken place, opposes over 60% of this entry. Secondly, it is not in the interests of the Greek people and thirdly, it is not in the interests of the peoples of our region. We therefore have no choice but to vote against this protocol that does what I said, namely to strengthen an aggressive imperialist organization.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Poppas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, today 31 January I would like to say in this Chamber three names: Christodoulos Karthanasis, Panagiotis Vlahakos, Hector Gialofos. I see an empty Chamber, a 'Full-time' and a meeting should not normally be held with that number of people, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. On this day, this Chamber should be in the midst of the three hundred MPs, and the Greek Parliament should keep a minute's silence on the heroes, the fallen in the Imia. Instead, we see the guilty of treason of the '96 Imperials at events with Kyriakos Mitsotakis (Stournaras, Simitis, Mitsotakis, etc.) And have the courage to have the Chief of Officer's Representation speak of open borders and opportunities. Opportunities given to Peristeri at the Jumerkas, as he said. No relationship between Mitsotakis and his family and Tzoumerkas and Peristeri and the people's neighborhoods, the man who is, I would say, the chosen elite and the Bildeberg Club. So the Mitsotakis and Mr. Tsipras and all of them had to be here, so that there would be an event in the Greek Parliament for the fallen of the Imian people. In this respect: I had a lot of fun in the Committee on Foreign and Defence when I saw 'left', people who grew up with Marxist and Leninist ideology defending NATO. Listen, the 'left' - in introductory terms always because of the fact that these commemorates are the real leftists - to defend NATO and say that it will give additional security to the troubled region of the Balkans Montenegro's admission to the North Atlantic Agreement. This accession has already been signed in March 2016, it is typical of the process in the parliaments, the Americans have made their decisions, but Montenegro is a divided country, a divided people as far as NATO is concerned, and its secession from the Yugoslav Federation, namely from Serbia. Really, because we're talking about Montenegro now, let's go to NATO. What did NATO offer to the Imian crisis? I say this because, in quotes, I talked about the Imian anniversary, this sad anniversary. What did unwilling NATO offer to the '74 Cypriot tragedy? What has he offered and what is he currently offering in the new Imian crisis now taking place? What does NATO offer? Of course, we may ask for a lot of NATO when we ourselves leave the Ministry of National Defence headless. The Minister of National Defence was in Qatar when they became what was happening, that is, when the Turkish OHIM approached the Imia. There's pictures of documenta. He then took out some "monomen" announcements and said, "We prevented them from approaching the Imia." And they became all soldiers and heroes, sleepless heroes. The EEC and NATO are the same trade union, that is, the European Union and NATO are the same gang. We say not only 'no' to Montenegro, but 'no' to NATO and the European Union, because Greece and Turkey together in NATO don't fit. Some of them have to go. Let Greece go and let this people finally gain their vision of genuine national independence and social justice two hundred years ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u9	Mr. Loverde, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I do not have anything to add to what Mr Theocharopoulos said in the Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs, but I would like to stress to the National Representation, to the opponents of the arguments that the Communist Party has put forward, to the PASOK, to the Democratic Asylum process in particular the Balkans and, in particular, the Western Balkans to the institutions, the European Union and NATO, is a very important course, a course that, when it comes to a positive conclusion, is of benefit to everyone. Of course, Mr President, I am not hiding that, at political level, I am encouraged by the suggestion made by Mr Amanatidis, the Minister of State for SYRIZA, to ratify the Montenegrin protocol to NATO as a whole. I am encouraged by the recent past with the blurred reports of the opposition SYRIZA in NATO. Worms and blurreds, you didn't understand whether this party is purely against or in favour. Today his Minister proposes that we ratify this protocol. Contrast? Balance? Change of place? Citizens will judge it. However, it is not the same as the contradictory situations that may give rise to statements such as today's Mr Xydakis, former Foreign Minister, former Minister of Culture of this majority, on the euro. If they are thoughts second, like those of Mr Varoufakis, do not dare this time. I'm going back to the subject. Minister, we have taken initiatives as governments of Greece. I remember specific initiatives in the early 2000s and earlier on the accession of the Balkan states to NATO. We did it with a first wave with Bulgaria and Romania. We continued and in 2009 there was the second wave with Albania and Croatia. Today is Montenegro. It is a course that we served as a political party - either a government or a opposition - consistently because we believe that this is of benefit to south-eastern Europe, that is what is of benefit to the Balkans, and that is what is of benefit to our country. Similarly, I would like to remind you of the Halkidiki Summit on the progress of the Western Balkans to the European Union. I would like, however, on this day when, for the policies we have defended and exercised, it has a festive character, but also for the Balkans, to make a point, to put an asterisk. I feel, especially with the attitude of some Balkans on the crucial issues of the economic crisis that arouses our homeland, that we did not have support at this time, that we had policies that have been articulated by Member States of the European Union now, NATO, but also the candidates, which were on the side of our national interests. In other words, we did not have a matching of the attitude of these Member States towards our country. The discussion here may be a good advisor, that Greece should not follow a path of constant political analysis alone, but it must resurrect many of these more general analyses and from the perspective of its national interests. We are disappointed by many of our partners now or candidates for our partners. We are disappointed at the disgracefulness of the attitude they have taken over these years. I would like to stress this, Mr President. I should like to welcome the Foreign Ministry's suggestion that this protocol should be ratified and, as Mr Theocharopoulos said, that we are positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u11	Does another colleague want to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u12	Has the Rules of Procedure changed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u13	Oh, no. Mr. Dannelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. We all agree that it is a major and important issue to ratify the accession of a new country to NATO. I think it would be useful for each party to express itself in here too, apart from having the opportunity to do so in committee and to vote. We simply want to point out that in a world that is changing rapidly in an unprecedented way, where none of the things that are characteristic of today or tomorrow is like the certainty of yesterday, in a new international reality in which China appears to be the champion of globalisation and of open trade relations, and the new President of the United States appears to be the angel, the supporter of protectionism, the closed borders, nationalism, the fear of the foreigner, the different, we must rethink of a number of things and step up our efforts. I think that at this juncture joining a country of the Western Balkans in NATO is a special event. We welcome it and believe that this integration contributes to stability in our wider neighbourhood. I'll close by taking on the occasion of what Mr. Loverdos pointed out just before. Good relations, stable support for our country over time in the countries of our wider neighbourhood and the Balkans, in particular, for their integration into the European Union and NATO, has unfortunately not been followed by the construction of solid cooperation and support relationships. That means we didn't do well. Not today. There's something we haven't been doing well in the past few years. So let us bear in mind our relationship and the building of alliances and partnerships within the wider organisations, the supranational organisations that we are involved in. To close by saying NATO is in a new reality too. Therefore, he will have to reorganise, restructure the designs, priorities, objectives and see his role of being, in fact, in a new reality where the United States and Turkey, the two large, that is, the largest forces participating in NATO, are reviewing - we do not know whether they will actually do so, but their rhetoric is that - their relationship and their perception of NATO's role in today's reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, I do not have much to add. It is known that Montenegro has already entered into institutional relations with the Alliance since 2006 and, of course, on 19 May 2016 was signed in Brussels by the governments of the Member States, including the Hellenic Republic, Montenegro's accession protocol. We appreciate what we have said in committee, namely that it is a country that is trying to strengthen regional cooperation and promote good neighbourly relations. It has made good progress in implementing the criteria set out by the allies and so we supported the invitation to begin accession talks at the Foreign Ministers meeting, as a country, on 1-12-2015. Greece has also supported Montenegro's European perspective and we remain firmly supportive of this prospect. We recognise that this country has made the greatest progress in the process of accession negotiations. Twenty countries have already completed the ratification process. I invite you to be the twenty-first. There are seven countries left, and I think we should proceed to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too. The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is hereby terminated: 'Following the Protocol on the accession of Montenegro to the North Atlantic Treaty'. Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u18	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u19	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u20	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u21	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u22	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u23	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u24	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u25	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u26	The bill was accepted. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Following the Montenegrin Protocol on the Accession of the North Atlantic’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the articles and the whole principle, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the whole of this bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u28	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-31-S1-commons.u29	With the consent of the House at 18.23' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, 1 February 2017 at 13.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: a special agenda, a debate, in accordance with Rule 148 of the Rules of Procedure of the House, on the tabled findings of the Committee of Inquiry, on the investigation of the legality of lending political parties, as well as the owners of media companies from the banking institutions of the country, announced in the House on 25 January 2017.
