ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all draft laws of the Ministry of National Defence: (a) "Determination of the technical arrangement between the Swedish Armed Forces and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic for the Cooperation of the Swedish Armed Forces with the Hellenic Navy in the Sector of Exchanging and Training of Special Forces". (b) ‘Preparation of the Military Cooperation Agreement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Armenia’. The drafts were adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into Parliament under the procedure laid down in Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of these agreements. However, given that two ministerial amendments have been tabled, Nos 963/69 and 965/70, in the agreement with the Swedish Armed Forces, I propose firstly that those who voted against or expressed reservations, as well as the Minister responsible, should be placed at the beginning of the two agreements for five minutes. But if you all agree, we can start with the Minister in order to answer any questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u2	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u3	I then propose that the two amendments should be discussed together, with the parliamentary representatives, the rapporteurs and the special speakers and the Minister responsible, each to speak for five minutes. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u4	So the House unanimously agreed. The rapporteurs are the same for both agreements. Minister, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u5	Will the five-minute period be to talk about both agreements and amendments?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u6	Yeah, they'll all be discussed together.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u7	I would ask that a list of speakers be opened for the amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u8	All right, you'll talk. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u9	We have agreed, whoever wants to take the floor for the amendments, to take it. So I should like to present you with the sanctions of the agreements very quickly. With regard to the ratification of the Military Cooperation Agreement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Armenia, the towards ratification of the Comprehensive Military Cooperation Agreement is to replace the previous agreement, the validity of which has expired and confirms the excellent level of relations between the two countries and their impeccable cooperation so far in defence matters. We are all aware of the long and heartfelt relations between the Greeks and the Armenians, as well as the common points of interest, on a number of foreign and defence policy issues. I report to Turkey, to the South Caucasus, etc. The agreement is completely beneficial to Greece, as it upgrades its role in the Caucasus region, while it covers all areas of military cooperation, including defence planning, equipment and defence industry, training and training of personnel, research and development, scholarships for students of Armenian officers in Greek military training institutions, training of special forces, etc. These are for ratification of the agreement with Armenia. With regard to the ratification of the technical arrangement between the Swedish Armed Forces and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, we must add to the title 'and other provisions', because the amendments are also in place in this agreement. This is a technical arrangement between the Greek and Swedish Armed Forces, which lays down the conditions for supporting a host nation, when conducting joint exercises and training between the Greek and Swedish Warship Navy according to the standards of cooperation on peace, that is, NATO, since Sweden does not participate in NATO. It reflects the traditional good relations between the two countries and the two Navys and is judged to be very beneficial, since it opens opportunities for closer cooperation between the two countries in the future. We have a lot to gain from this cooperation, as well as the reverse, the Swedish navy from ours. With this agreement we cover all aspects of joint exercises and co-institution, such as: Sending information required in respect of the list of staff, materials and means before any joint exercise, safety standards and disciplines that each State places on the staff of another, in accordance with the rules of reciprocity, coverage of staff costs, medical expenses and exchange and protection of confidential information. I now come to the amendments. The amendment under number 963 and special 69 aim at the final settlement of the issues of remuneration and other costs of the two cases pending before the International Arbitration Court, i.e. the appeal of the company ‘Greek Shipyards SA’ and of others against the Greek State and the opposite action by the Greek State against the company ‘Greek Shipyards SA’. These cases concern the implementation of the 2010 military agreement, on the basis of which the change in ownership of the Greek Shipyards took place and the Greek submarines programme was regulated 214. The State Law Council confirms that its cooperation with the company in question, which has undertaken a piece of the legal work, has so far been beneficial and it would be very important to continue this inconsistently, in particular with a view to adopting a decision of the court on the first appeal in April 2017. The economic object of the two cases is extremely high. In the first appeal, the applicants against the Greek State, i.e. Iskadar Safa and the others, claim from Greece some EUR 1.5 billion. Similarly, Greece's second appeal against the Safa and others touches the 6 billion euros. It is therefore clear that two very important issues must be taken into account: firstly, the way and the procedure for payment of the company, in a firm and final way, in order for lawyers to commit themselves to their purely legal work, and secondly, that this should be done in a way that sets a final ceiling, namely a ceiling on pay, given that in such cases the costs are tending to fly. For example, in the first case, the final cost was almost twice what was originally agreed, while the company's work in question is confirmed by the Legal Council of State and by the court that it was actually provided. The arrangement is a negotiation product between the company and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which solves both these issues, includes all remuneration at all stages of the process, even for any legal means against the primary decisions. As you can see, this is a 'roll'. Overall and taking into account the remuneration, normally paid in international court cases at this level, is, in our view, a beneficial regulation for the public. The other amendment, with a general number 965 and a special number 70, comes to supplement and extend the corresponding regulation that we had passed with Article 125 and followed by Law 4446/2016 to facilitate the transfer of an area to Elefsina from the Greek Defence Systems to ELPEs. The provisions of this provision do not change, it is simply what is now happening: Firstly, a more precise description of the extent to be transferred, in accordance with the title of acquisition of NSAs, and secondly, an extension of the granting of tax and insurance information for another three months, because until now it has not been possible for both parties to conclude the final contract in the medium term. The relevant market, as we have said before, is crucial for NSAs. It will give them a valuable liquidity breath, since the agreed price is over EUR 26 million and will at the same time give them time to implement the overall reorganisation plan of the NCAs, based on the business plan drawn up. Also, with this amendment, we are extending the exemption from an ENVY certificate, an energy efficiency certificate and a certificate of L.4178/2013, and provision is also made for the possibility of collateralisation in favour of the final buyer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u10	Thank you. Mrs. Canelle, would you like to take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u11	If there is no one else who objects.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u12	Is there a fellow Member who objects? The Democratic Alliance was reserved for the committee. You want the floor, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u13	Yes, Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u14	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also told the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security that the reservations expressed by us about the ratification of these agreements have, as our first reason, been to take the floor in plenary. Because, as the Rules of Procedure are structured, they produce inequality. It produces inequality on a subject - whatever - of those who do not accept it and those who have accepted it to be simply spectators and expect to say yes to the vote at the end. Therefore, if such unequal treatment problems are created, we will be looking after all sanctions, so that we can take the floor here. Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. And not all the ministers such as Mr Vitsats, who in committee warned of the amendments and accepted that the procedure of the debate in plenary is changing. The fact that there are amendments is a general debate. Other ministers, however, do not advocate, as if they wanted to leave here faster, but many Presidents do not give the floor to others, apart from the rapporteurs and the parliamentary representatives, last but not least last week, Mr Kegeroglu and Mr Kourakis. Now, I have heard Mr Carras saying 'I want to speak'. That is right, because there are amendments. He's got to open a list. This has been done sometimes, Mr President, but some others have not happened. I would therefore ask that we settle one of the points of order - we do not have to wait for a revision of the Rules of Procedure - so that we can have the floor here and dominate ourselves. We now, in order to obtain a right of speech, are forced not to be embodied in the committee and, indeed, to express reservations about an agreement which we have drawn up as a government: the one with Armenia. We shall be saying 'yes', we are withdrawing our reservations in plenary. As far as the amendments are concerned, I have to say that we agree on remuneration for the operation of arbitration. We also agree on the granting of tax information time for NCAs for the six months. But, Mr. Vitsa, why a year for the NSA and six months? Second question, to which I would ask you to reply: With the problems created by the accounts commitments made by the officials, which you have appointed, and which are subject to the fate of the legal persons who are called upon to command, what are you going to do? Will you keep them booked? After giving them tax information and since these people have been persecuted in their personal affairs. They are your people, that is, you appointed them. Why is that so? In other words, they pay you at personal cost for the services they provide for you. And finally, as far as the land of the NSAs, which is to be transferred to the ELPEs, we agree, we will support it. After all, it is the only way to find a short-term solution for the Defence Systems, workers, their issues and their functions. However, this transfer must have no problems of legality and constitutionality in relation to ownership. I hope that you, your legal adviser, have well shaped it, because we do not have time or the opportunity to express first thoughts of constitutionality or unconstitutionality. ELPEs are guaranteed. The buyer shall be guaranteed. There's a law. It will not be questioned in this way, but it may be accompanying arguments to cause problems. So I want to know that your legal advisers have seen it and that the provision you bring us is the best possible. To close, I want to raise one last point. Mr President, we are expressing our strong protest. I am not going to reach the limits of the complaint yet, because I have asked the relevant Minister to come to Parliament to reply. The Minister for Development - I would ask you not to interrupt me - the Minister who commented as the minister for the drachma when he took over, appointed the Scientific Agency, the Development Committee's Scientific Council, a theoretical theory of the drachma and the parallel currency, Geuro and Vice-President of the Commission, the Secretary-General of Mr Varoufakis, Nikos Theaharakis, who is now "paid" the Megaron, as was then "paid" Greece. There is a problem, Mr President, and I call on the members of the Ministerial Council to be aware of who may be sitting next to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u16	I'd like to say a few words. There is a specific provision in Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The fact is that tabling amendments to sanctions for contracts is not the best process. But if they do not agree with the Rules of Procedure, there is some change and anyone who wants can follow it. However, with a view to canceling this provision of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, I think that it is a trick, which, if it is general, ultimately leads to the annulment of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u17	We don't do it for that, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u18	The Democratic Reconciliation can give a second thought to this. There's an elasticity. We said Mr. Carras was going to talk. But a list of speakers cannot be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u19	Why not?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u20	Mr President, those who voted against...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u21	Okay. In fact, that is, of course, but the flexibility in the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure let me make it up to a certain point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, I would like to speak on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u23	Mrs. Canelle, would you like to speak now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u24	And I want to speak now and I want to speak on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u25	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u26	First, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, there are, as far as the term is concerned, those who have voted against the committee. So we're right ahead of each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u27	Good. Now what's the point?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u28	Allow me, please very much. I'll talk. I'm taking my time, if you like, who even counts on Mr. Loverdos' time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u29	All right, all right. Talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u30	Secondly, one might want to use the Rules of Procedure in favour of it by putting forward what the honourable Member said. Please. Please. The reason you gave to those who have said yes to the contracts is that you only give it to the amendments. If it is, let's have a conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u31	The Democratic Alliance had been reserved. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u32	I know, Mr. President. In any case, however, a list cannot be opened at the expense of the existing Rules of Procedure. Whoever voted first. That's very simple.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u33	That's what I said. Go ahead. So take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u34	I will be clear and brief. I am not going to tell you what I said in committee again. We have voted against both conventions for serious reasons and, above all, for consistency. The Communist Party of Greece is a consistent party, it's not like the government. As far as relations with NATO are concerned, the government has changed them more than once over the last three years and as a government over the last two. For example, he has acceded to this concept: we are not against excellent relations with Armenia, nor are we saying that our relations with Armenia are not excellent, but also to use historically excellent relations with Armenia to justify participation in organisations that are for peace and are in fact equiping and preparing NATO to'stop it' in the Caucasus, would be a political and reasonable huge hypocrisy. That is why we say 'no', not because we want to harm the agreement. In any case, these agreements are a shape that is much earlier than they are. They have been, implemented and come here for a ratification. It is a process for which we have called on numerous times to come here to ratify the conventions before they are implemented. It can't be done. The government so far collects the previous governments. Next one's gonna pick up these. And it will always go that way, because it is a very nice way of using Parliament as a decor. This is happening in all contracts, not just the Ministry of National Defence. They sign, go, start the implementation one year, two years, three years, four years later one remembers that the Greek Parliament also needs ratification. And here comes the contract, and we play the bishop politically, not the bishop spectacularly. Plenary is not to obtain videos to play them. That's the contract with Armenia. As far as the contract with Sweden is concerned, we have also told the committee that there are a number of issues. There are good words about the special forces from here and there, countries that are associated and friends and close to NATO. The question is, however, for whose benefit. All the military preparation that is being done at the moment, in our area, in our neighborhood, in the north, in the south, in our east and west, is being professed - the Foreign Minister at the moment is in the United States - and the American officials, with the consent of the Greek side, that energy routes must be maintained. Tell me what peoples, when the energy streets are not in their hands, but are they in the hands of the monopolistic interests of the earth, where there are energy corridors, have they benefited? People are hungry. "Tiga" in oil is Nigeria. Have you seen Nigerians rich? Let's not go crazy! The seven sisters, the following three, the twelve, the twenty - two, the five, the thirty - eight who are there are exploiting them. Same thing happens here. So why say 'yes' to things for which the Greek people had not even been informed? The Minister, a military officer, had come here. He had open up conversations. There is talk of the foundations and cooperation of the Special Forces. In a Sweden which is in the process of preparing itself, due to the changes and developments in interests and preservation, and reintroduction of office. We therefore call 'no' there too. Let's go to the two amendments. Look, in the amendment you bring with EUR 4.5 million for legal support, when you put together the amount and put on international practice, no longer this international practice and international legality. They're the nicest receptacles and titles to be covered by below-laws. Not in this case. The international legality. What is the international legality? Every time, there are lucrative alliances. A country that is equipped with armaments. Right? We're buying. We don't produce tanks or submarines. Our view is that we could, but in any case, do not produce them at this time. We order them and buy them from outside. It is only natural that, since we buy them from outside, we also have disputes with dealers at times. Do not present this as a charity, because when they ask for money from the Greek public, they ask for what they should be asked for. Question: So many years, even you who want to change as a left-wing government, do not have any legal staff in the country? Are there no Greek lawyers and services to form which defend the interests of the Greek State? And you're going to take it - I'm sorry for the expression - a legal famous one - I'm not saying, the decent word is a 'producer', the other word is much more common - which takes monopolistic contracts of this kind, against the phenomenon as an incomprehensible sum of 4.5 million. You present it to us as if they were crumbs: Go get 4.5 million, in front of the billions we are asked for, 1.5 one and 4.5 the other, the supply of legal services. Why? Aren't we from the Council of State? We've got bright people. Did you ever get them? They're psalmizing legal minds in this country. People with prestige. What's specialty? Aren't we the specialty we buy and pay for our fine money, and do the others specialize in selling legal monopoly? This is the background for which we are telling you 'no'. We'll tell you 'against this contract'. And I'm short on the other one. You brought the NSAs. If you brought us their tax information - I say it and simply so that people can understand us - just to pay the workers and settle a lot of loose ends, we would tell you with the four 'yes'. Here's where the regulation comes in. It is unfortunate that you put in the same amendment, firstly, tax information to pay the workers and people listen to them and say 'good government. Let's give them a fake paper too." We did it at the shipyard. And no one was paid to the shipyard. And after they got paid a little, the same problems began down in Syros again. We were in here a year and a half ago, in the same way. I mean, how can I tell you? It's like having double books. We have come and legitimised to give tax information that does not exist, just to pay the workers. What a good state! Illegality to pay the workers! And it gives illegally tax information! Go and tell it out to those who are being chased by the tax collectors to beat us. However, we would call you "yes", because the world, the hungry and the unpaid, is essential. Chop, you also brought us a second, to grant an ESA plot to the ELPE. That is why we wanted to say 'no' to you. Not only 'no', it is unequivocal 'no'. Who, when, where, how, and why? What's this plot? On what terms do you give it? For whom do you give it? Who's going to benefit? Is it the property or is it not the property of the Greek State? Is he staying in the Greek State? In what sense will it stay in the Greek public and how? What's the price? What does it contribute to? Nothing. That's not answering. To make an amendment to an amendment, by a flexible interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, an amendment, and we stick it to the convention. I mean, can I translate it to you how it makes sense? We're selling the plot to pay the workers. How can we say yes for one? So where is the Rules of Procedure, it says that one cannot be done, the other cannot. You either have the amendment package or you do not have the amendment package. And we come today, when we are cutting ourselves off for unpaid workers, to have to explain to them too, to explain to you that we cannot say 'yes'. In the first, then, we will say 'at present' because, despite the fact that at this moment you want to give ECU 4.5 million, since you say that it is beneficial to the public, it does not seem that we are already stopping you. We would like to say 'the present', but we would like to say 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u35	Clearly, Mrs. Canelley.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u36	In the second, we say 'according to' at least political dignity in relation to the sale of assets in any way pretext to cover the loss of workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u37	Good. Thank you, Mrs. Canelley. Mr. Poppas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u38	I will pass on the irregularity that is happening once again today, that we are bringing amendments to sanctions. We've said it too many times here. I am surprised that various Members do not raise themselves to protest, as before. Of course, there was the Minister's warning. In any case, we should not normally be discussing the substance of the amendments, and then Mr Kouzlos will be talking about the substance of the ratification. You are bringing an amendment to 'HOLMAN FENWICK WILLAN LLP', a law firm and I read here the astronomical sum of EUR 4.5 million. You told us a moment ago, Minister, that you have already given EUR 9 million. That is what I understood - because you have the euro as a tangle, you share it from here and there - EUR 4.5 million. You said that 9 million has been allocated. To find the minutes to see it. 9 million have already been allocated. So you said that this was an agreement of the Ministry of National Defence with this company. Don't we have lawyers in Greece? Don't we have legal schools? Aren't we also worthy of lawyers in Parliament? Don't we have the Council of State? We do not have the Legal Service of Parliament, which, when you find it difficult, say 'no, will we go to the Legal Service'? Do we have to resort to foreigners and give 4.5 million? Do you know how many are 4.5 million? I'll count on you. Put what you had as a ceiling, the minimum wage of 750 euros that you have forgotten, and now employees with hunger wages, 200 euros, are being paid semi-employed. With 750 euros, I tell you to count. It is a Greek town, the monthly town, six thousand employees for 750 euros are 4.5 million euros. So you give the Greek people's money, so, in no sense, as if it were your money, as if it were your legacy, which is not your inheritance - because you servants of the Greek people are - and scatter them wherever you want. Does he benefit from this? Because, behind some amendments that are in a half-empty room, there are some interests. You said that when you were opposed to those that were in the night and that you did exactly the same in New Democracy. Neoliberal New Democracy, Neoliberals and you. Who's benefiting? Who made the deal? Did you do it? Has Mr. Kammenos done it? If Mr Kammens did, we have great reservations, because we know Mr Kammenos, we know how it works, we have an experience of the hot spots agreements now without competition and we have no confidence in Mr Kammenos and his choices. Who did these conversations? What was that choice to bring foreign lawyers for our own interests? As far as the second amendment concerning the Hellenic Defence Systems is concerned, you want to sell these too, a silver, as you sell all the silvers from Greece to foreigners, so that workers can be paid. That's great! This was also our proposal in committee - Mr Kouzilos told you - that the NSAs should be divested so that they can move backwards. Of course, the solution you give is fragmentary. It's only for six months, and it should be for more, and it's only for NSAs. You do not have a comprehensive policy, a plan for the defence production of our country. We will say'residents' to this because you are giving tax information to the NSAs. Why don't you give tax information to hundreds of professional Greeks who are in a bad position, who don't have one? You have to give them an update, a help to pay the workers too. We are therefore voting 'at present' in the second amendment. I would very much like you to get in the way and answer us, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u40	No, you won't interrupt me, Mr. President. Nine minutes was spoken by Mrs. Canelle and she was out of line.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u41	I thought he wanted to take the floor, Mr. Kouzilos, to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Kouzilos will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u43	I didn't interrupt you. Keep going, to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u44	I would ask you, therefore, to inform us of which technician, Minister or State Secretary, officer, political staff or anything else, has spoken with this lawyer pimp called "HOLMAN FENWICK WILLAN LLP". Finally, who benefits from this agreement of so many millions of euros?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Kouzilos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u46	In relation to the NSA amendment, we did, too, make this proposal for NCAs, because we certainly saw that there should be liquidity. That was the key to NSAs. We say'residents' in this amendment, because we certainly do not praise your policy. We are not praised for what is going to follow, and we have no confidence in what you are doing. You can have the best intentions, but we do not see it until now, because we see that the problems are going on. As far as the legal company is concerned, we insist on what we say about who has made this agreement. Was it a precedent? Why do we even choose foreign law firms? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Kouzeli, do you have anything else to say about contracts?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u48	The conventions say 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u49	Yes, sir. Mr. Dendias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, our rapporteur, Mr Savvas Anastasiades, has already been in the committee. As far as the two amendments are concerned, the New Democracy will vote'representations' and not positively, because as far as the remuneration of HOLMAN FENWICK WILLAN LLP is concerned, we believe that the explanations as described in the explanatory statement are not sufficient, and therefore we cannot have complete certainty and vote on it, and on the other issue concerning NSAs we do not think it is a simple case for the payment of staff, but a more complex approach and we cannot in our positive vote praise the fact that it comes with a late amendment. Minister, we would like another procedure. I would like to place myself on something else for one minute, which is obviously of concern to everyone in the Chamber, but also to the Greek news. I am referring to the last position of Minister Katrugal on the issue that has arisen between Turkey and the Netherlands. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like the following positions to be included in the Minutes concerning the New Democracy: the first is that there is no similarity with Thrace. The Minister's statement that even in Thrace there were events in which Turkish ministers attended cannot have anything to do with the reality for a simple reason, because in Thrace they do not live Turkish immigrants and there are no Turkish nationals. There are Muslim nationals of the Hellenic Republic. Consequently, the example was unfortunate. I am absolutely certain that the Minister will use another, more successful example. The second is the division of the position of European solidarity. We do not understand why, even in the sense, Greek Minister's statements should be interpreted as supporters of Turkey. I would like to say, Minister, that whatever it is, national interests serve this precedent. We do not know what we will have to deal with in the future. The Dutch attitude is beneficial to the possible Greek attitude in the future for any issue that will be created. I do not want to say the following. Speak on a question of democracy, that is what it creates! It is absolutely certain and we all know that there is barbaric repression of human rights in Turkey today. Turkey is a country with most inmates journalists from anywhere else, I think, worldwide. And the Turks' appearance that they are supposedly refused freedom of assembly in Europe, for what reason - to defend an authoritarian constitution, which by presiding Greek constitutionalists has been termed "caesar" - only Greek reaction must cause. I conclude, Mr President. I think the right thing to do here would be either the Minister not to say anything or to keep European solidarity and to stand in solidarity with the Kingdom of the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, I will make a statement to this House. The Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Environment and Energy "Definition of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Environment and Energy of the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Industry and Energy of the Republic of Azerbaijan on Cooperation in the field of Renewable Sources and Energy Efficiency and other provisions". Mr. Carras, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u52	Thank you for the concession, Mr President. I would not ask for the floor, except to express my sadness today. Why do I have to say that? Taking into account the amendment concerning the provision of legal services by an international legal office, I understand the need, perhaps, of specialised services. But I do not understand, Minister, why, while there is a legislative framework allowing the Minister responsible for matters after the opinion of the Council of State to conclude contracts of this kind, you are now coming and asking the House to ratify a fee already agreed. I'm not the one to judge whether she's too high or low. I don't know the services that have been provided. I don't know the invoice of this law firm. But I am concerned, I am disturbed, because you are asking the House to ratify a fee that has already been agreed. I do not want to open up the much-needed issue of the shipyards at the moment. Members know that too. The public also knows how much the Greek and Greek funds have been afflicted. But I draw a conclusion and you will allow me. As long as it comes by law to establish a legal fee, for me this means that Greece has lost credibility. I did not expect to live it, i.e. a mere law firm to be able to enforce its terms and ask for legislation. In addition - perhaps the word is heavy, but you will forgive me - there is also a colonial time, which we lived in this Chamber again days ago on a secondary topic for the 'FRAPORT' convention. What was that matter? It was the provision of public services by the Greek police, by the fire department, by the EKA. It is a well-known matter. It is under way - supposedly - the negotiation. You brought a provision to the House - I am not referring to you, Mr Vitsa, to the government - where you imposed the differences - between the Greek Government and the concessioned 'FRAPORT' to be led to the international arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce. Let me appreciate it. But why? And is this where we had to leave the Greek courts on secondary matters, or will the next stage be the introduction of a provision that will ensure that the remuneration of those who manage these cases on behalf of the Greek State is paid? Minister, I would like to tell you that from now on - and I mean as a government and I am not speaking personally at all, because I also know your morality - you should not underestimate the presence of the Greek state and internationally. Because when tomorrow you are led to get a legal provision to promise or to ensure the payment of a legal company's remuneration, I think that Greece is at a very low level. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u53	Here, Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u54	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but how do you give the floor? Will the parties' rapporteurs speak or take the floor of anyone who raises the hand? I don't understand!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u55	Well, Mr. Colleague, and whoever raises his hand is a congressman! He's not "exotic"!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Davakis, say a few words, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u57	Let the honourable Member take the lead, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u58	It's not about your face, it's about the process!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u59	All right, all right! The parties must take the lead!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u60	I don't want to precede!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u61	I don't have a problem. Besides, you're a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u62	Come on! Please! Say what you have to say! The gentleman doesn't run the procedure, but I do! Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u63	Mr President, with regard to the amendments, as they have been put forward a moment ago and to which the Minister referred to the Commission, the concern which - and is very important - is that, after two years of coexistence, the previous government has found a specific plan for RDP, a reconstruction plan, it has proposed an alternative approach that we have not seen. Two months ago, the Committee on Armaments met, to which we were informed of a draft national strategy, the results of which we are still waiting to see. So we have again come to vote on the survival of the NSAs on a continuing basis by means of amendments, when a while ago the Minister of National Defence said he would revive them with the production of kalznikov and other weapons systems. And today, Mr Vitsats - Mrs Kanelly said so - with an amendment to vote on the granting of insurance information, to pay the workers and to survive, as the NSAs survive. The New Democracy's attitude to this case is critical and it was expressed by Parliament's representative, Mr Teddy. We have always voted, and we are positive, but ultimately this attitude is such that it tells you to show up on this project at last. The same is true in the case of shipyards. The question, then, is one: given that the War Navy programmes are ending - something we have discussed together - what is now going to happen in the shipyards so that there is a plan for their future? And I'm closing up with this. In an intervention I had made at the end of the debate in committee on the Camp of Paul Mela, you had made a statement which I find unfortunate, Minister, although you are aware of my appreciation of your face. You said I don't understand why retired people are proprietaryly interested in the way or in a proprietary perception of the properties of the Ministry of National Defence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. You must know - and I am sure you are aware of this - that the contract, which was signed with bazaars and branches by the Prime Minister and the Minister of National Defence in Thessaloniki, granted the Camp of Paul Mela - is a contract which we have not seen the day before yesterday with a request for documents to be filed with the contract - is a contract which has great question marks the members of the Armed Forces, but also the soldiers. And I come to why the guerrillas? And when we say "retired", don't think some graphics, possibly, figures of the Balkan Wars or 1940, but we're talking about young people who are fifty, fifty-five years old who have huge questions and concerns about their property. The previous Convention - and I have finished, Mr President - has mentioned beyond all the other elements - and I expect the Convention to see them - that a 10% of the income from the management of various buildings within the camp - the previous convention, which may be abolished by the one you signed now - will be in favour of the National Defence Fund, whose income goes to the EMCDDA. What is the EMCDDA? The EMCDDA is the special code of financial support for the shareholders of the Ministry of National Defence, which means that the retired persons will secure their share and ensure that they are not reduced. That is why the retired people are concerned about reducing the EMCDDA, which you are doing with the contract that you have brought, not you, Mr Kammenos, and which creates impressions. That is why they are interested, because they are their property, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u64	We said to show flexibility, but not 'we found a priest to bury five to six'. Mr. Lykoudi, you have the floor and we close with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, first of all I would like to say that we are voting in favour of the conventions, as in the committee. However, I would also like to make the point that Mr Lovers has made before and that you have given an answer which, in any case, I have the impression that you are not wrong, that is what the Rules require, and that you cannot have a greater flexibility that goes beyond the limits, but we must at some point agree that those who vote positively on sanctions may also have a content different from the content that comes as a ministerial proposal and may wish to express some views in plenary. It is a matter of course - I am not saying you, the Rules of Procedure, the way it is formulated - to state with caution that it is possible to speak in plenary. This, Mr President, you know, is not a trick, it is an elementary defence to express some views. As I say, I agree with what Mr Loverd said before. Now, with regard to the amendments, I would like to say the following: as regards the amendment relating to the salaries and expenses of the international law firm, we are voting in favour. I would, however, like to ask, Mr Minister, and I honestly say this, is there no point in asking, is there any point in asking, firstly, that existing legislation, covering public procurement, does not cover the contract for emergencies? Why do we have to come to the House with an emergency to see it? If it covers them, why are we having this debate today? Secondly, the other amendment relating to the defence systems, and that is where our vote will be positive. But I would like to ask three questions and if you can answer them: Firstly, why has the company been without tax and insurance information for so long, so that it is unable today to proceed with the programmes under way? Secondly, what were the reasons for the long delay in the sale of Elefsina's land, which would give the company some financial breath? Thirdly, the management of the company was chosen by the government and with subsequent moves it appears that there was insufficient support to help resolve the company's problems by the relevant Ministries. If there was a problem with the administration, why didn't the right moves at the initial stage take place? It is clear and I think - I honestly tell you - simple questions and I would like an answer. Otherwise, the amendments have a positive attitude from us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u66	Thank you. Then Mr. Xydakis has the floor and then the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. As some things have been heard about the amendments and a similar one, I would like to say that all this high-ton rhetoric about the law firms abroad, which the Greek state often employs in order to stand up for the Greek State in international courts, did not hear any cause for seriousness. It's a tactic that's being followed. In international courts you ask for legal assistance from large legal offices, from large legal corporations. It is a tactic which I think for many years has been followed by the Greek State. In other cases that have not requested it, it has even been defeated when the demands and the law on the part of the Greek State were fair. From there on, Mr Loverdos has reiterated a question answered by the Minister for Development, Mr Papadimitriou. I think that the answer was very decent and very precise in the spirit of a national effort.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u68	Colleague, we can't hear you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Xydakis, harder please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u70	I think the Minister's answer, Mr Papadimitriou, was a decent answer, accurate, thorough, and within the spirit of a national effort to build a developmental model for a country that has been devastated and is trying to get up on its feet. Whether to judge on market criteria and on a zealous basis the scientific value of Yan Kregel or Nikos Theaharakis, I think it escapes from a good debate about what this country needs. Kregel has financed for years a head economist at all UN scientific offices and has been honored by the universities in the world for his teaching and contribution to economic theory. Nikos Theocharakis, through the economic department of the University of Athens, has made generations of students and is constantly honored for his scientific and academic offer. Let their works, their work, their scientific work - their contribution and their advice to the Greek political leadership - and judge them from what they are going to suggest, from what we are going to hear. Their opinions and suggestions will be heard in the public sphere. Let us not commit a trial of intents, a trial of ideas and a zealism, which does not offer any service to anyone, except for a rather useless one - for the Greek people who are suffering - creation of impressions. From there on, I would like to refer to what Mr Denkias said. How the Turkish Government exploits certain statements made in Greece is one thing that cannot be controlled. That is, distortive or malicious, or selfish overinterpretation or misinterpretation of statements, it is inevitable to do so. It was made by the Turks, by the Turkish Government in the case of the Netherlands and France, with different measures and different weights. With the Dutch there has been one point which can be interpreted by us now that we are third-party observers in the face of critical elections in both the Netherlands and Turkey. In France, instead, the Minister who was forbidden to speak went to Metz and spoke to a mass audience. Are we going to lie to the French because they have allowed us, or are we going to get in between and make interpretations? The Turks have congratulated the French. Everyone plays their game in the political interest of their country. Our interest is to be calm, restrainted, firm and constantly demonstrate our will, at all times, to defend and defend sovereignty and democracy and human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u71	Thank you. Mr. Katsikis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u72	May I speak, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u73	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u74	From me, Mr President, there is no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u75	Please, Mr Katsiki, you have the reason why you so strongly wished. Here, take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u76	Excuse me, a parliamentary representative is not allowed under the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u77	Here, talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u78	I'm trying to take the floor if you guys stop talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u79	You were in a hurry. Please take the floor! Slide the word!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u80	I'm trying, Mr. President. That's what I'm doing. And of course, because I very much wished, not because I liked it, but because the Rules of Procedure had to force me to take...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u81	You have the right, go on. Take the floor, under your right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u82	Yes, sir. Thank you so much for giving me again for the third time. Be well. And I'm sorry, Mrs. Canelle, that despite my efforts, you did not advance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u83	I don't do a favor to be sorry about anyone...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the amendment is concerned, I would like to begin by saying that in 2014 by a joint ministerial decision signed by the ministers, Mr Avramopoulos and Mr Stournaras, this law firm was entrusted with defending the interests of the Greek State in cooperation with the Legal Council of State. The company had not received EUR 950 000 ever since. The first appeal is at the stage of the final decision, the second action has been initiated, services have been provided by the company, which remain unpaid and there is a need to establish the maximum remuneration. Here, then, I would like to point out that it is not possible for a company chosen by the coup d'état of New Democracy - PASOK, for a company which has received an advance with the consent of the previous coup d'état, to have a reaction from the parliamentary representative of the New Democracy. If nothing else, I find it inappropriate on the basis that, under such a contract, this law firm, which is foreign, and its name is HOLMAN FENWICK WILLAN LLP, had been chosen by the New Democracy and the PASOK. To his credit, the PASOK and today's Democratic Compact are voting in favour of this amendment. The New Democracy does not vote for it, although it was chosen then, an advance was made. I honestly ask myself: In response to the objections and arguments of the addressees and vote against this amendment, a company which has started and raised the whole issue and is moving on to the second appeal, could it stand up and move away from the middle and come another Greek? I am in favour of having a Greek company back then. However, because things have started, I do not think that a position of this kind could be taken today, that is, because that company and not another one. Of course, there is the provision of specialized legal services of this company, in cooperation with the Legal Council of State - and I would like to point this out - and in the context of two ongoing appeals, as I said, on the one hand, by the company "ELLINIKA NAVAGE SA" against the Greek State and, on the other hand, the opposing action by the Greek State before the International Court of Appeal of the International Chamber of Commerce. These actions have a high degree of complexity, have a high economic impact and affect the future functioning of the "GREE NAVELS S.A.". The judicial procedure is under way and cannot be interrupted, as I have said. Any delay involves the risk of insurmountable damage to the interests of the Greek State. We've talked about spending too. As far as the second amendment is concerned - and I shall end, Mr President, because I am content with what I have said in the committee, and the Rules of Procedure do not allow it - that is, Amendment 965 with a special number of 70, with its provisions being granted to the public limited company 'ELLENIC SYSTEMS SYSTEMS S.A.', proof of fiscal and insurance information for six months from 22 December 2016. This will facilitate the participation of this company in tendering, public works or public procurement. This ensures the uninterrupted and continuous activity of the same company in the production and trade of arms, ammunition and war materials. In conclusion, to those from the Golden Dawn continue to mold against the President of the Independent Greeks and Minister of National Defence, I have to say to them that it publishes transparency. Already have left for the prosecutor on the grounds of scandals which examine whether they have that status in order to develop into a criminal trial and, in any case, Mr. Kammens is making an inconvenient and friendly effort, making use of the property of the Ministry of National Defence, dear Mr. Davakis, to offer the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, too. Mr. Saridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vitsa's choice to inform the members of the committee of the addition of these two amendments to the ratification of the bill can only be regarded as positive, provided that it does not become a rule and that this rule is laid down in the other sanctions which will be brought to the Greek Parliament. With regard to the two amendments, the Central Association will support the entropy on the regulation of issues relating to remuneration and other costs of the legal firm ‘HOLMAN FENWICK WILLAN’. Nevertheless, we cannot emphasise the fact that the level of this remuneration is essentially the proof that when elected representatives cannot defend the interests of the Greek people we are at this very point, at that very level. The cost paid by the Greek people to lawyers in legal offices is too great. As far as the amendment on NSAs is concerned, we shall vote 'the present'. This is because, while we can and understand the derogation from all the texts and general provisions concerning the granting of insurance and tax information in order to allow people to be paid and the NSAs to participate in the tenders, we cannot understand why, within the same amendment, even the derogation from all the general provisions of the certificate of engineer and all the other certificates exempted from the NSA is entered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u87	Mr Theocharopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, first of all - once again we are discussing the procedure for amending the sanctions procedure. And I'm talking specifically about this process. We will highlight that every time, it has been emphasized before. At least the Bureau of the Conference of Presidents will see this issue of sanctions. It is another issue in the other legislative instruments and another in this process that we need to do and there is all this confusion that exists today with regard to speakers and all these issues in a procedure that is completely outside the Rules of Procedure. First of all, Mr Vitsa, you are honoured by the fact that at least you brought the two amendments, you sent them to the parliamentary groups and there was information at this stage. I say this because it shows that there is an intent, in any case, in a non-regulatory process where there is a consensus, that we know some things in advance, that we can discuss them, and that is a procedure that we when we look at it. As far as the two amendments are concerned, our rapporteur, Mr Loverdos, said that it is a good thing. I will, however, ask some specific questions. As regards the first amendment, of course, the arbitration procedure is always very costly and indeed the time limits set by the institutional rules are extremely narrow. As far as international arbitration is concerned, an arbitration agreement must have been preceded in which everything is described. However, there can be procedures and stages which could not be predicted, as the explanatory statement tells us, and indeed a law firm in this velvet. The provision of the amendment also states that this amount includes fees and charges for services already provided and not paid, and does not include fees and charges for services already paid. If we understand the overall amount well, it is much greater than the ceiling that goes into the recital and which we ignore. In addition, the provision of the amendment states that costs are included in the costs of taking legal action against the final judgments of the arbitral tribunal. However, the appeal shall not be subject to any means of appeal under Article 35 of the Treaty. International trade procedure. It is only a few points to which I would like your comments on better information and discussion on them. As far as the second amendment is concerned, there has been a lot of discussion on this matter both within the committees and in the House. This is not the time to reopen the whole debate. This is again a derogating amendment. We have also seen too many by way of derogation from your Government procedures in too many bills and too many amendments. It's become a habit now, it's not the exception. I should like to stress that here, by way of derogation from the general and special provision, you are giving the extension for six months. Of course, we asked why for six months and not for one year, for example. And here we wanted an answer. It's already in place. One wonders whether all six months are sufficient to participate in tenders, takeovers and execute projects, collecting money from the public. In all likelihood in five months we are afraid that we will vote again on the same extension. So tell us why it is six months and not twelve months. I think the question that has been raised is clear. I could raise other issues relating to NSAs. I'm not going into this process. The debate will be held anyway in the committees. I would now like to make a broader comment. There was a debate in the previous period which, of course, did not honour the Greek Parliament, under the responsibility of your Minister, and to which the appropriate information was not available, and which was requested, on the issue of armaments. Instead of replying, your government has submitted a request for a preliminary investigation in the next few days. From the outset, the rapporteur, Mr Loverdos, has been on this subject and said 'all in the light'. All in light for all the processes of those years. But here we are - you are in the government, we are in the opposition - answer the specific questions that we ask you. I'm not opening a conversation right now. On the other hand, Mr Kammenos told us that there has been a request for a purchase of 20 F35 and a request for the upgrading of the F16. As far as F35 is concerned, it is your Ministry's request. Attributes I read that ‘Read price and availability request for a possible purchase of 20 aircraft F35 on 7 February’. From the Minutes of the House and Mr Kammenos's answer. We heard you in the next few days taking distances, as described in the press, from this statement, and you said that we would not buy the F35 at the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u89	Don't generalize the conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u90	He's completely out of line.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u91	I shall conclude, Mr President. What was put on the F35 is about 2 billion euros. I would like to ask you: will the Committee on Equipment, as requested by the Potamian Members, be held on this matter? Is there going to be a detailed debate in the Committee on Equipment on all these issues? Because you understand that it is very serious. What we have asked for is for the Committee on Equipment to be fully informed. What we are asking for right now is for this process to go ahead as well. Finally, because the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman referred to the specific national issues, I would like to say that they are very sensitive. We in our parliamentary group have a Muslim MP in Thrace. Let me tell you that today's statement by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, which has likened the case of the visit of Turkish Ministers to the Muslims in Thrace with the Turkish citizens of the Netherlands who vote in Turkey, is not only bad, it goes beyond any logic. To make this clear, at least on behalf of the government, that it has nothing to do with one issue, because it is completely irrelevant to each other. Mr Xydakis, as you have said, we must be calm and united in how we react to all these issues and to Turkey, but I think you should address this issue primarily to the Minister of Defence and not to the opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u92	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u93	I feel that in order to respond to all these issues that have been in the process, I will need a great deal of time. But I would like to say that, especially on the issues of the Dutch-Turkish conflict, I did not expect this to come to Parliament. Of course, everyone has the right to do so. They are matters that we can mention on the windows, write articles ourselves, but I feel that the House itself and on the central, governmental - one must say - level must remain with caution so that they are after the referendum procedures and the electoral procedures of these countries much more beneficial. That's my point of view. I'm not going any further.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u94	They're unprecedented.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u95	Unprecedented or unprecedented, that's what I think.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u96	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u97	'Yes' in the windows, 'no' in the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u98	I'm telling you, he gets an officiality of this thing. I didn't even mention the windows.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u99	Not even in the windows. All right, you're covered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u100	There can be no debate on major issues on the occasion of two conventions. National turbouki issues at any time?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u101	You're right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u102	Mrs. Canelle, please. That's what he was trying to say in a way. The second issue. We have said that, of course, the debate on equipment can be held at some point and I will assist in doing so, as I have said in the armaments committee. I would like to say again, however, that this debate too cannot have a character of impression. What do I mean by that? I mean, we have expressed our policy. Our policy lies in three things. One is the maintenance of our weapon systems, the second is upgrade, the third is targeted markets. Every time you want to have a conversation like this, you have to speak with numbers, with specific perspectives. Who are we trying to scare and what are we trying to say? We have suffered a great deal as a country from this debate and from what has happened. I would say that we are particularly careful and indulgent in this logic. Now I come to the issue of "Pavlos Mela" to talk about it again. I want, however, because you said some things, Mr Davakis, and it is not personal tone, to tell you that I honor the retired, in any case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u103	Maybe he misinterpreted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u104	All right, let me say it one more time, then. I have one opinion and again: the property of the Ministries - each of the Ministry - of legal persons governed by public law is public property under a specific legal regime, which we must follow. This convention, for example, stipulates that on the part of the management body of Pavlos Mela, 5% will go where you say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u105	It was 10%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u106	Yeah, it was 10 percent. It was a lot. A lot has changed, but I say remember what the people are claiming in this region. That's the story.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u107	You went into the trap, too, and you respond to other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u108	Now I'm going down to some of the issues that got in the way of the ODA. I say this because a question has been raised on the part of the Democratic Alliance. There has been an agreement before - in my opinion too much and I will try to change it - which says that 20% of the revenue of each invoicing is going to the Treasury. Now, I don't know if you'll be able to tell me how it is possible for there to be a job that generates 20% profit in today's world conditions. This thing enabled us, every year, to give tax information for each year. There is no corresponding NSAs at all. We are making an effort on the basis of the previous law that we voted for a 5% percentage and, respectively, 7% going to the Ministry of Finance, in fact on the tax system - so that we can talk about it - so that there can be a regulation. Why, let us not forget that the debt of the NSAs to the public, if I'm not mistaken, was EUR 1.2 billion. Approximately 600 million have been recapitalised, which has become a time-lag, and with these logics we will try to get it out. It is wrong - and I would like to mention more specifically - to think that this sale of the land is going to pay the workers. Right now, the workers have been paid. There's a union now that says they haven't been paid. They probably don't have any good information, but they've been paid. The important thing is to have a liquidity base so that he can do business. That's the basic thing. In order to create this liquidity base, I inform you that we have received three estimates. There is an estimate of the ELPEs, there is an assessment of the TEI and there is an assessment of an independent valuer from the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u109	So, how much do you sell it for?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u110	The first estimate - with your figures - was 18 million, the second 22 million, the third 26 million. So the agreement is 26 million, with that logic. Now, I do not want to come back, because I do not want such tensions at the level of movements, what has happened all the previous years when we asked the inhabitants of Western Attica and West Athens to move away from PYRKAL, then, next to the ELPEs. Nor do I want to get into specific issues, but it is a relatively beneficial process, which can enable us to develop the business plan. If we do not have the business plan and whoever does not have the business plan of the company, which has been passed by both the board of directors and by the KISYP, it has been given to the workers, we would be happy to give it to all parties. I think that in some parties I have given it, but tomorrow the business plan will be going on about how it will turn out to be so that we can avoid applying that part of the agreement, which, in fact, plans to send out another two hundred workers, from the five hundred left over and close another factory. And we're only doing this for our soul? Not because we think it is a company that has a future, has potential, has resigned and we are trying to revive it. I will not start saying 'you, what you did, what you did' because I think my main issue is the problems and how to solve them. My main point is not to oppose and defeat this or this in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u111	So you're selling it to keep workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u112	So we sell it so that we can buy raw materials, Mrs. Canelle, so that we can make things...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u113	Okay, don't answer Mrs. Canelle. It's clear what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u114	... so that this process will give a production potential even more because either way, if there is no work, there are no workers and let's start talking about this one thing once. That is what I want to say with regard to NSAs. Just to remind me, since you reminded me, that three months ago exactly, on 22 December 2016, we were here in this Chamber and we voted for this particular provision. What was the problem and we're coming back? It's not the quarter. It is that the description of the property in that device was not accurate. And I come to say that we have now done a very big job just to be good legally and in relation to the constitutional frameworks. I respond to Mr. Loverd's urge to see this well. Secondly, on the subject of the convention. Look at that. Mr. Katsikis said so. First of all, we have no conflict with a supplier. We have a conflict with Safah, let me call it that, or the Greek Shipyards. That is our key issue. In 2014, when this first conflict had begun, Mr. Avramopoulos and Mr. Stournara made a joint ministerial decision, they set a sum and started this process. The deposit was given, the bill came sometime. And the bill was much larger than the 50% that they anticipate. What is envisaged in these cases? 100% plus 50%. He was older because there had been no consultation, no procedure. And then we raised a number of issues from our side, because they became the beginning of the second arbitration procedure. I am sorry - the logic - 'we don't have our own children, we don't have...'. All right, that is to say, the Legal Council of the State is making it. I did two things. Firstly, I asked the Legal Council of the State - it is a process that has started a year ago - if cooperation is beneficial. The Legal Council of the State - and there is documentary evidence - said this cooperation is beneficial. I called and they came from England. We have had debates on the subject, because there has also been a question about who has had the debate. So I tell you that the Legal Council of State and my office and I ourselves have had the debates. We've seen all the cases. We arrived at a final fee amount and we said: Look, sir, what happened last time, I don't say with fraud, it can't be done again at the level of the House and the Hellenic Republic, and every time we run and make a second procedure between us if the specialist was used and how much was used, if that expert was used, if those costs were done, if these phones were made. You know it's a different way of handling these things. We took the initiative - I answer you now - that the law firm did not ask us to make a legislative provision, precisely so it can't change. I think we were right. Everyone keeps their point of view, but I think we did well. And I'll give you a meter, and I'll finish, Mr. President. Pay and expenses were paid to the International Court, I think, a few hours ago. My information is - I am not taking an oath - that, on the contrary, the companies used, Greek and foreign, paid expenses and fees for the first case of EUR 11 million. I'm telling you this to get a sense - several are lawyers and you have a sense - of exactly what's going on. Finally, I never said - because someone had heard from me at some point - that I spoke about EUR 9 million. I would like to say that the first and second ends will in no way exceed what we have given, what we have exhausted plus four and a half. We could talk about a total of two cases under 6 million. I say this to be clear to each other, to each other take responsibility for being able to go downwards.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u115	The 900,000 got mixed up and a zero came in.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u116	Probably.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u117	Someone said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u118	I know you didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u119	The 900,000 became 9,000,000.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u120	With this I would ask each political force to distinguish its position within the House. The majority of Parliament takes its responsibility. I would ask you to be positive in the amendments too. In conclusion, I would like to say this: there is a procedure which concerns sanctions. I am not talking about the parliamentary procedure. But I also think that, in general terms, some issues of international relations in one way or another must be well-ordered and up-to-date with international agreements and international sanctions. Everyone can, of course, keep his opinion and so on, and be in this sense and consistent with his views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u121	So do we. The debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence is adjourned: "Following the Technical Arrangement between the Swedish Armed Forces and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic for the Cooperation of the Swedish Armed Forces with the Hellenic Navy in the Sector of Exchanging and Training of Special Forces and other provisions". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u122	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u123	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u125	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u126	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u127	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u128	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u129	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u130	Therefore, the bill of the Ministry of National Defence was accepted by a majority in principle. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments. Asked by this House: Can Article first be accepted as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u131	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u132	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u134	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u135	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u136	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u137	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u138	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u139	The first article was therefore accepted as a majority. Is the amendment accepted under a general number 963 and a special number 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u141	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u142	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u143	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u144	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u146	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u148	The amendment, by a general number 963 and a special 69, was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House accept the amendment with a general number of 965 and a special number of 70 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u150	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u152	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u153	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u155	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u156	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u157	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 965 and a special 70 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u158	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u160	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u161	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u162	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u164	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u165	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u166	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Technical Arrangement between the Swedish Armed Forces and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic for the Cooperation of the Swedish Armed Forces with the Hellenic Navy in the Sector of Exchange and Training of Special Forces and other provisions" was accepted in principle and on articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u168	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u170	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u171	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u173	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u174	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u175	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the bill of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Determination of the Technical Arrangement between the Swedish Armed Forces and the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic for the Cooperation of the Swedish Armed Forces with the Hellenic Navy in the Sector of Exchanging and Training of Special Forces and Other Provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u176	We continue with the second draft law. The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence is hereby terminated: "Following the Military Cooperation Agreement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Armenia". Asked by this House: Can the bill be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u178	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u179	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u180	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u181	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u182	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u183	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u185	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Following the Military Cooperation Agreement between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Armenia’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of the articles and the whole and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u186	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to ratify the Minutes of today's sitting on the vote on all these drafts.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u187	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, twenty-four students and students and two educational attendants from the Esperian High School of New Ionia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Wednesday 25 January 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether they have been ratified.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u188	The minutes of Wednesday 25 January 2017 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-14-S1-commons.u189	With the consent of the House at 19.34 the meeting for tomorrow, Wednesday 15 March 2017 at 10.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, only debate and vote at first, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Health: "Reforming the Administrative Organisation of mental health services, Centres for the Experimental Experience of rare and complex diseases and other provisions".
