ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the specific agenda, special mention will be made of the memory of Mr Evangelos Bassiaku. Following my brief position on behalf of the Bureau of Parliament, I will take the floor with a few fellow Members, one of each parliamentary group, for three to four minutes, and one representative of the government, and then one minute's silence will be observed in the memory of our late colleague. Evangelos Bassiakos has set up Parliament's headquarters for nearly twenty-eight years. And that's all I think he's saying. Colleague of high parliamentary ethos, loyal to the principles of parliamentary democracy, fighter of the ideas of his prolongation and of the constitutional order, served both powers, legislative and executive, with responsibility and honesty. I personally had the luck of joining Vangelis all these years on the seats of the Greek Parliament, of becoming friends and of knowing firsthand how much the completely unfair, as was proved to be afterward, the involvement of his name in the sad case of Vatopedi. On behalf of the Bureau as a whole and in particular of the President of Parliament, we express our deepest sympathy to his wife, the child and the family of our late colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going in a row. On behalf of the Government, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Ioannis Tsironis, will speak. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u2	"To thee was perfect, he was defended for a father." When they told Hector that the omens are not good to fight for his homeland, he answered them with this phrase. Here, too, seems the greatness of our timeless culture, which we have the ability to see the things and the eyes of the opponents and not just in our own perspective. Eventually the Hector was lost in battle, but the immortality won it. We all know well that this great battle will once be lost. So, basically, we're passive. We receive from our parents and hand over to our children this land and the only eternity, after all, is this earth, this air, this earth, this culture and that language. And it is a great honour for all of us to be able to work for and deliver the baton. I personally had not met Vangelis Bassiaco - we only happened to compress these two years - but, finally, from the little I heard and from the little I read, I can say one. First of all, it worked. It wasn't one of those politicians who easily, as wind blows, change their minds, change their minds, change their minds. Because, after all, every idea is useful, it is enough, of course, to serve it consistently. There's no more idea. We may have different ideas, but at least in this effort and in this struggle for the homeland we know that waterproofs are blurred and the consequence is the one that counts. What is difficult is the absence. The absence is too difficult for those who live. It's very difficult for his wife, for his child, for his sister, for you colleagues who met him, for working with him. That is why I, personally, can only say that the deeper the pain, the greater the value of the man. Because, in the end, what remains as a loss, this pain for a man who is lost, is exactly what makes us feel like a void. So happy are those who some behind them hurt and the more painful they hurt, the more we can see that this man who left, deserved and is unpaid the gap he leaves. Lighten the ground that covers him. Heat condolences again on the part of the government in the family, his colleagues and his friends. I think that we and I, in particular, as Deputy Minister for Rural Development, are taking the spit from Vangelis and my predecessors to give it to my successors as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u3	For purely emotional charges, Mr. Constantine Tsiaras will be preceded. I apologise to Mrs Theopevetus. Mr. Chiara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, if the pain from loss is a function of supply, the gap left by Vangelis Bassiakos' in his special homeland, Boeotia, but also by the fact that he has served with courage for decades, is enormous. In his political life Vangelis Basiakos was consistent with his principles and values. He was honest and methodical, with a clear vision, without discounts and derogations. It was consistent. There was a plebiscite. His education and political stifle of the family tradition he was carrying were never allowed to plunder him on the cheap path of populism. From Thebes, a man with many interesting and deep knowledge of the agricultural challenges and problems faced by the Greek region, Vangelis Bassiakos was first elected to the national Parliament in 1989, while in 1992 he took office of the State Secretary of Agriculture. Bearing in mind European matters, Vaggelis served his home country as a regular member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the International Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe. In the Government of New Democracy in 2004, he took up the duties of the Minister for Rural Development and, of course, he was re-elected, as we all know, MP Boeotia in 2012, with passion for the interests of his country and its fellow citizens. Vaggelis Bassiacos dealt with dignity. He was repeatedly honoured with the trust of the Boeotians and honored his fellow citizens from the parliamentary and ministerial headquarters he served. Those who had the luck of meeting him and working with him in close proximity know that he was wronged by many, especially in a tense political period, without ever allowing himself to wrong anyone. He's had time to get justice. But he did not have time to justify the expectations created to all of us by the broadness of his knowledge and purity of his evenings. For Vangelis Bassiakos on the difficult days after his loss, much has already been written, for his honesty, for the uncompromising Europeanist, for the untiring servant of his resignation and his fellow citizens in Boeotia. Of course, much more will be written in our political history, valued by a positive figure for its presence in the political life of the place in two ministries and two prime ministers. The void that Vangelis Bassiakos leaves is unpaid for all of us, colleagues and partners, but more for his family, for Vicky's dearest wife, his precious son Thanasis and his sister Maria, a pillar of his political path. In these difficult times for the country, the greatest honor one can pay to the late Vangelis Bassiakos in and out of this Chamber is to follow his example, an example of political and personal ethos, dignity and honesty. Vangelis Bassiakos, leaving his family and friends as a reserve for his work, common experiences and experiences he had with us. These experiences and memories must be safeguarded, because they are essentially the follow-up to our presence. Let memory be eternal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u5	On behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group will speak, our colleague Mrs Theophftatus Aphrodite.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are commemorating the memory of our chosen colleague Evangelos Bassiakos, who has left very prematurely and suddenly. From the point of view of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and from me, I would like to express my warmest condolences to both the New Democracy Party and his family. Already in the last few days, those who have referred to Evangelos Bassiakos have dried both the quality and stability of the political course and the special gifting aspects of his personality. All of us colleagues who met him through his active involvement in parliamentary procedures, his involvement in committees and in international organisations, distinguished his political decency, his natural courtesy and scientific documentation. For these reasons, it is no accident that his fellow citizens from Boeotia have trusted him in the past thirty years to constantly represent them here at the National Representation. With the restoration of democracy in our country in 1974 and the establishment of the New Democracy he followed the course of his party consistently and with the pleasant and difficult ones, in response to the demanding positions he has taken over all these years. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living at a time when some instruments are trying to force us to be of good value, cheap for expensive. Evangelos Basiakos left behind a rich political and scientific work, expressed a special political culture, which is nowadays the subject. So if we want to honour his memory, we should assimilate these democratic lessons that he gave us with collective work, consistency and morality, values that contribute to the public speech and which we now have a great need. His memory is eternity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u7	Thank you. From the Golden Dawn Parliamentary Group, Mr Ioannis Sahinides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Golden Dawn, I express our sympathy to the family and its deceased. It's light to be the ground that's covering him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u9	So do we. From the PASOK Democrat Association - DIMAR, the party's parliamentary representative, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am really embarrassed to get to the Step. I never thought it would be time for me to take the floor to say good-bye on behalf of the Democratic Partnership, a friend of mine who left so sudden and so unexpectedly. We have common origin on my mother's side from the city of Thebes, so I had the opportunity before I met him here, when I was first elected in 2000, to have met as human beings and fellow lawyers. And I was impressed, because in addition to what was politically separated, he united us with a love for history, the political history of the place that Vangelis Bassiakos, combined with his experience, led him to have a history in his views of what is political, what is politics in Greece, what is the maliciousness of Greek politics and what separates us and we cannot even find them at the most difficult times. Our political adversity, ladies and gentlemen, has never exceeded the limits of decency because Vangelis was a very decent man and has not allowed, however disproved, to obtain traces of personal dissent the political dissent. His innate politeness has set him up for all these years since 1989 in this Chamber, and I therefore believe that the position of all colleagues has been the same. Ever since I found out, Vicky, my mind has been in you and Thanasis - Aristides. And I want you to tell him he must be very proud of his father. And what Vangelis leaves him is a great legacy that will accompany him all his life. From this step, ladies and gentlemen, I express my warmest condolences, in addition to Vicky and Thanasis - Aristides, and to all relevant and friends. And this Chamber, the National Representation, but also the New Democracy Party, must feel poorer today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u11	On behalf of the Communist Party of Greece, my colleague and F Vice-President of the Parliament, George Lambroulis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. On behalf of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, I would like to express our sincere condolences to the premature and unjust death of the MP of the New Democracy and former Minister of Evangelos Basiakos in his family and his party. We would like to note that from these positions Evangelos Bassiakos expressed his views, was at the same time open to discussing different positions on ideological and political issues, thus contributing to the political debate. With these brief thoughts once again, we would like to express our sincere condolences to his family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much. From the Group of Independent Greeks, Mr Konstantinos Katsikis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very honoured, on behalf of the Independent Greeks, to say good-bye to Mr Vaggelis Bassiakos so early. I consider it 'common' to refer to things that are thousands of miles from the road and its political presence. I just want to testify the distillate of my soul for a man who was seeking, working and struggling to be a man of value and not a man of success. And that's what I think was his great achievement. His value had to do with what he gave and not what he could receive. And all of us were honesty, seriousness, labour and modesty. I was lucky to meet him from the very first years of his parliamentary journey, when I began to smell politics through my late father's political office. Conservation, kindness, openness were some of the elements that characterized his daily service. After so many years of involvement with politics - and indeed with a lot of lead in the election campaigns - with terms of government posts and high party positions maintained the simplicity of the person on the next door. I had the opportunity to see this a few months ago when I joined the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Istanbul, both as members of the National Representation. The approach, its targeted positions, the general interest and its multi-faceted information worked constructively for Greek positions during the session. At the end of the meetings, our tours in the Kingdom helped me to get to know the man Vaggelis Bassiakos better. I knew the sensitivity with which he touched the national issues and the issues of lost homes, his deep historical knowledge, his education and his commitment to national values. But Vangelis was raped, quickly leaped from decay to eternity. His undefeated death left the country’s entire political world with its own people inexcusable tribulation. I would also like to add our silent prayer to that of his friends, associates, companions and his family, wishing that he had a good paradise for Vangelis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u15	From the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Georgiadis Marios, her Secretary, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. On behalf of the President of the Centro Association and all the members of our party's parliamentary group I express to both the family of Evangelos Bassiakos and the second family, that of the New Democracy, our deepest grief and our condolences for the loss of our dear to all of our fellow Members. He was lost so prematurely and so unjustly a skilled scientist, a wise family chief, a good father with ideas, interests, needs and, of course, plans for the future. I am younger in politics than the late, but I am well aware that Vangelis Bassiakos has never dealt with the political life of this place. It was an example of politicians with an ethos, with such a mild character, who didn't even have opponents. And he was always willing to help anyone who asked him. As mortal people we may never have the ability to understand these interventions and priorities of our creator. I'm sure Vaggelis Bassiakos will miss all his friends. But the void he'll leave to his family will never be covered. I sincerely hope that God will give the power to his own people so that in time they can overcome the collapse and suffering and be able to live with his memory as a presence. In closing, friend Vaggelis, I'd like to share and borrow your wife's words at the funeral. In many ways, he said: "Where are you, Vangelis, to see how many people have come here." Let me say in my turn: Where are you, Vangelis, to see a confiscated room with your colleagues say goodbye to you. Have a good trip, man!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u17	From the Potamium Parliamentary Group, Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Spyridon Lykoudis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u18	We say goodbye to the Greek Parliament today to an expensive colleague, a lovely man, a reverent to all politicians who suddenly left us, Vangelis Bassiakos. At a time when the generalised crisis in Greek society gave birth to rage and anger in the order of despair, unjustly and iso-popular, political and political spaces, the loss of a truly vulnerable politician takes even greater dimension. Vaggelis Bassiakos honoured the Greek Parliament with his morality, his interactiveness and modesty, as well as his hardship and consistency in defending the people of the toil in his region. For the politicians of the younger generations, it leaves to all of us seriousness and responsibility in the exercise of our parliamentary duties. Good-bye, our colleague!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, I would now ask you to keep a minute's silence in the memory of our late colleague Evangelos Bassiaku. [[In this respect, I should like to draw your attention to the fact that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks ……]] His memory is eternity! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] We're going to take a five-minute break to get out of the Chamber, the family and the colleagues of our late colleague. Immediately thereafter, Mr. Andreas Koutsoubas, who replaces Evangelos Bassiakos, will be on the agenda with the lifts of two immunities. Discontinue for five (5') minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. At this point we will take the oath of Mr Andreas Koutsouba, in place of the Evangelos Bassiakos who died. Mr Andreas Koutsoubas is called upon to come and give the oath before the representative of the Church. [[At this point the Member, Mr Andreas Koutsoubas, comes and gives the following oath:]] "I swear in the name of the Holy and Omousiasias and Indivisible Trinity to be loyal to the homeland and the democratic city, to obey the Constitution and the laws and to fulfill conscientiously my duties."
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u21	He's worthy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u22	At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent question in this House on Thursday 23 February 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 497/20-2-2017 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, about the explosive need for school accommodation in western Thessaloniki and especially in the Municipality of Cordelios - Evosmos. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 490/17-2-2017 by Mr Georgios Vlachos, Member of the Republic of Attica to the Minister of Finance, concerning the appropriations for excise duty on petroleum for agricultural use. 3. The Question No 492/17-2-2017 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the retention of part of the OPEKEPE grants due to a failure to pay a contribution to the General Organisation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (OECD). 4. The question by number 488/16-2-2017 of the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Incorporation PASOK - DIMAR Mr Michael Jeleighis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the problems in implementing Measure 11 of the Agricultural Development Programme (PAA) 2014-2020 in organic livestock farming. 5. The question raised by Mr Christos Katsotis with reference to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Question No 500/20-2-2017 by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Social Affairs and Social Solidarity on the delays in the payment of the unemployment benefit for seasonal workers. 6. The Question No 496/20-2-2017 by MP V' Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Culture and Sports about the findings of the Anonymous Company of Intellectual Property (ESPI). 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question raised by Mr Georgios Amyras at number 498/20-2-2017 about the 'SIEMENS' case. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 491/17-2-2017 by MP Kilkis of New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Finance about the end of a trade in small villages. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 493/17-2-2017 by MP Magnesia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou to the Minister of Finance about the public's dues to private individuals. 3. Question No 499/20-2-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the supply of plant protection medicinal products that cancels the collective tactics programme. 4. Mr Diamantos Manolakou, Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the protection of workers, insurance, pension rights of seafarers and provocative interventions by shipowners - government. 5. The Question No 337/13-1-2017 by the Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health regarding the scope of the application of telemedicine in Greece. 6. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the major problems and unfair charges of high insurance contributions. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy about the flooding of the Laconia Prefecture. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 89/5-10-2016 by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Health, concerning the completion and segregation of the Oncology Department of the Rhodes Hospital. 3. The Question No 89/5-10-2016 by Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health concerning the completion and segregation of the Oncology Department of the Rhodes Hospital. 4. Question No 2371/4-1-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the retrospective insurance of farmers with unprecedented workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Requests for waiver of immunity: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, etc. Athanasios Kavada and Helen of Alonitou. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report on 9-2-2017, according to which the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mr Athanasios Kavada should not withdraw immunity. The relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics announced its report on 9-2-2017, according to which the members of the Committee proposed by a majority that Mrs Helen Aylonitou should not withdraw immunity. In accordance with Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, the House does not enter the substance of the cases but only investigates whether the act in respect of which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the Members' political or parliamentary activity, or the lawfulness or harassment conceals political feasibility. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide by raising the hand or rest on the request of the Prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(b). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member or to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with a decision of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2005, we have agreed on applications for waiver of immunity that the House should decide by roll-call vote and by roll-call vote. The vote, in which each fellow Member will list his name, his constituency and the parliamentary group to which he belongs, will be registered in the respective Minutes. That is how we respond to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. After the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I have described. The first case concerns Mr Athanasio Kavada. The second concerns Mrs Eleni Aylonitos. Is there a Member of this Parliament who asks for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u24	I, Mr President, would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Cavadas has been called to the Step for five minutes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to express my deepest regret at the loss of Mr Vangellis Bassiaku. He was a politician with morality, consistency and dignity. He was a politician who decorated with his presence the New Democracy Parliamentary Group and the House and honoured the post the people of Boeotia trusted him. My warmest condolences to his family. To be his memory forever! Despite the difficulty of moments, in life there is all the time. So I should like to welcome Mr. Boeotias Andreas Koutsouba and wish him good power, which our prolongation and country needs. But let me come to the point of my waiver of immunity. First of all, I would like to say my respect and thank the Members of the Committee on Parliament's Ethics, who wanted to relieve me of the procedure for a case that in fact could not stand any criticism. In short, I will tell you that in 2012 I was a municipal councillor of the Municipality of Lefkada and the Municipal Council, among other things, determined by a unanimous decision, three canteen running places at Gialos beach in the Municipal Unit of Apollonio of the Municipality of Lefkada. These positions concerned municipal space and not public property, and therefore the procedure provided for in Law 2323/1995, on the basis of which there is no need to issue a tender notice, which is why we had received a positive recommendation from the municipality's Legal Service. In fact, there was an economic exchange for positions, which would be given to our fellow citizens who belonged to vulnerable groups, such as multiples, disabled people, etc., since, of course, they respected the standard. This decision was not accepted by a citizen and appealed to the courts against the entire municipal council. The messenger argues that no tender was made for the provision of canteen places on the beach in question, so that the municipality loses any revenue from the price of the auction. The above claim supports him in a ministerial decision annulled by the S.H.E. The point is that I am not the only one to blame, but the whole municipal council, all my former colleagues in the municipality. Now, because I was elected as a Member, I have the opportunity to get rid of the court proceedings. However, in the context of parity with my former colleagues on the municipal council and given that the case is not related to the removal of my parliamentary duties, I call for my immunity to be waived in order to be present in the court. It is also an action which does not have a legal basis. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Please accept my request that the citizens of Lefkada also see justice being granted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u27	Is the second request by a colleague asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Oh, no. Mrs Aylonitou is currently at the airport because she has to travel because of an unreserved obligation. That's why he's not present. I have to report it. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote on this item. A list has been drawn up with the names of colleagues for requesting the waiver of immunity. Every colleague will vote next to the Members' names on whom the waiver of immunity is sought. The person who votes in favour of the waiver of immunity takes note of his preference by the name of the Member and in the column 'NAI', that is to say, 'NAI' to the request of the prosecutor requesting the waiver of immunity. He who votes against the lifting of immunity notes next to the Member's name and to the 'NOV' column respectively 'NOV'. The voter will take note of it in the respective ballot column. Every Member of Parliament will be named, his constituency and the parliamentary group to which he belongs and will sign it, because the vote is rolled out in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure. Subsequently, with his name on the list of colleagues, he will deliver the ballot to colleagues Alexandros Meikopoulou from SYRIZA and Apostolos Vésiropoulos from New Democracy, who will sign it and announce that the MP has voted. After the end of the vote there will be a counting of the votes by the Members I have mentioned, as will be the result of the ballots, which will be recorded together with the protocol of vote in the Minutes of today's sitting. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u28	The House unanimously agreed. I would like to inform you that letters or fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, in which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the count, which will be followed. MEPs Petros Constantineas from SYRIZA and Vasileios Yoyakas from New Democracy are on the list. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they participated in the educational program of "Kissist" organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, nineteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 52nd General High School of Athens. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, before announcing the outcome, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Standing Committees on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice and Marketing and present their report to the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior "Additional measures for implementing the Rules of Procedure (EU, EURATOM) 1141/2014 on European political parties and institutions, measures to speed up the government work of the Ministry of Interior and other provisions". At this point I have the honour to inform the House of the outcome of a roll-call vote on the request for waiver of immunity from Members. A total of 190 Members voted. On the case of the Member, Mr Athanasios Kavada: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 48 Members voted. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the Commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that these measures are implemented in accordance with the They voted for 4 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected. [[The protocol and the roll-calls of the roll-call vote shall be recorded in the Minutes and shall be as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 50a and 50b]] In the case of Mrs Helen Aylonitou: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 49 Members voted. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the Commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that these measures are implemented in accordance with the They voted for 3 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-22-S1-commons.u33	With the agreement of the House at 13.50 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 23 February 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of Parliament's work (a) parliamentary scrutiny: discussion of topical questions; and (b) legislative work: only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all draft law of the Ministry of Interior: "Additional measures for the implementation of the Rules of Procedure (EU, Euratom) 1141/2014 on European political parties and institutions, measures to speed up the government work of the Ministry of Interior and other provisions", in accordance with the supplementary agenda distributed.
