ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question report on Thursday 26 January 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotas Vranzas to the Minister for Rural Development and Food about the Hellenization of products of animal origin. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 364/20-1-2017 by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Tourism, concerning the lack of secondary and specialised processing of arrival data, which creates a false and inaccurate picture of our tourism. 3. The Question No 367/20-1-2017 by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nicholas Michou to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the unacceptable displacement of 36,769 Greek children from nursery stations. 4. The Question No 373/23-1-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance on the armoring of electronic transactions. 5. The Question No 372/23-1-2017 by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Health about the problems of families and workers in special education services. 6. The 366/20-1-2017 topical question by Congressman I of the Central Association Mr.Ioannis Saridis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the restoration of injustice in the production of electricity from domestic photovoltaic systems. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 363/19-1-2017 of the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament and MP for the Athens I of Potamis Mr Spyridonos Lykoudis to the Minister of Economy and Development concerning the authorisation of sanitary shops. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 365/20-1-2017 by MP Achaias of New Democracy Mr Andreas Katsaniotis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the reopening of transitional sections of the TEI of Western Greece. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 368/20-1-2017 topical question by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the resurrected action of Turkish agents and their representatives in Thrace. 3. The 369/23-1-2017 topical question by MP Serres of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.MAR.Michael Jeleigh to the Minister of the Interior, on measures to be taken for the Subordinated Police Directorate of Serres. 4. The Question No 334/13-1-2017 by MP Arta of the New Democracy Mr Georgios Styriou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food concerning action measures to deal with avian influenza. 5. Under number 338/13-1-2017, a topical question by MP I Piraeus of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Nikolaos Kouzilou to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the prospects for the residence of the 28 islands that upgrades the national sovereignty and strengthens the sovereign rights of the country. 6. The Question No 337/13-1-2017 by the Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health regarding the scope of the application of telemedicine in Greece. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 341/16-1-2017 topical question by MP 2 Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Finance regarding the transfer of PPC users to companies of alternative electricity providers. 8. The Question No 332-12-1-2017 by Congressman Larisa of the River Mr. Konstantinos Barriotas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the completion of the projects in the Mezzogiorno of the Prefecture of Trikala. 9. The Question No 339/13-1-2017 by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Helen Zaroulia to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the terrorist attack with kalashnikov against men of MS. 10. The Question No 333/12-1-2017 by MP Achaias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Theodoros Papatheodorou to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on the financing of journalists and websites. 11. The Question No 343/16-1-2017 by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Stavros Tassos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the compensation to 100% of farmers and farmers of Lesvos for the great losses caused by snow and ice. 12. The 313/5-1-2017 topical question by Piraeus II of the Centro Association Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Health regarding the risk of children and adolescents staying without treatment. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 320/9-1-2017 topical question by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister of Economy and Development on the progress of the projects and studies on the 5th EPA (ESDP) in the Prefecture of Florina. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 89/5-10-2016 by the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, to the Minister of Health, concerning the completion and segregation of the Oncology Department of the Rhodes Hospital. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 89/5-10-2016 by Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister of Health concerning the completion and segregation of the Oncology Department of the Rhodes Hospital. 3. The question by number 91/5-10-2016 of the First Vice President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, New Democracy, Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of Migration Policy, concerning the program for the rental of apartments in refugees from the Athens Development and Tourism View Society (ETA). Ladies and gentlemen, before entering the special agenda, I have two communications to this House. The Committee of Inquiry into the Lending of political parties, as well as the owners of media companies from the banking institutions of the country, submits its findings, which will be recorded in the minutes of today's meeting. [[Due to the large volume of the finding, its text is not entered in this Practice and is in electronic form at the link http://www.hellenicparliament.gr/UserFiles/510129c4-d278-40e7-8009-e77fc230adef/ORDER%20EXFERENCE%20FORMITY%20FORMITY%20COMMUNITIES%2017.pdf]] I also have the honour to announce to the House a letter addressed to the President of Parliament: 'Mr President, We tell you that the Independent MEP, Mr. Jasson Fotillas, according to the provisions of Rule 16(2). 1 and 5 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, it accedes and is part of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group." There's the signatures of Mr. Mitsotakis and Mr. Fotila.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Requests for waiver of immunity: debate and decision, in accordance with Rule 62 of the Constitution and Rule 83 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on applications for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament, etc. Christou Papa and Konstantinos Barbarousis (a jurisprudence) and Evangelos Venizelos, Stavros Theodorakis, Alexandras Papapegias, Fotinis (Photinis) Gennimata and Dimitrios Koutsoubas (a bibliography). The report was announced by the relevant Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 16-1-2017, according to which the members of the Commission proposed, by a majority, that the waiver of the immunity of Mr Presidents should be lifted. Christou Papa and Constantine Barbaroussi. The report was also announced by the competent Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on 16-1-2017, according to which the members of the Commission proposed, by a majority, that they should not waive their immunity. Evangelos Venizelos, Stavros Theodorakis, Alexandras Papapegias, Photinis (Phos) Gennimata and Dimitrios Koutsoubas. Under Rule 83 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the House does not enter the substance of the cases, but only investigates whether the act in respect of which the waiver of immunity is sought is linked to the parliamentary activity of the Member, or the prosecution or prosecution or detention of the Member, conceals political feasibility. In accordance with Rule 83(7) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, Parliament shall also decide, by raising the hand or by reopening the request of the public prosecutor in accordance with the procedure referred to in Article 108(1)(2). The floor shall always be given, on request, to the Member to whom the request relates and to the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups or their alternates. I would remind you that, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 23 March 2005, we have accepted in respect of applications for waiver of immunity the House has decided by roll-call vote and by roll-call vote. The vote, in which each fellow Member will list his name, his constituency and the parliamentary group to which he belongs, will be recorded in the respective Minutes. That is how we respond to the provisions of Rule 83 of the Rules of Procedure, which requires a clear vote. After the debate on the cases of today's special agenda is concluded, we shall proceed to a roll-call vote, as I have described. The first case concerns, as I have said, Mr Christos Papapas and Mr Konstantinos Barbarousi of the Golden Dawn. The second case concerns colleagues and colleagues. Evangelos Venizelos, Stavros Theodorakis, Alexandra Papapegias, Fotini (Photi) Gennimata and Dimitrios Koutsoubas. The first request asks whether there is a colleague requesting, pursuant to Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, to speak. I've already been informed that they want to take the floor, both Mr. Poppas and Mr. Babarousis. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor for five minutes. [[Noise in the Chamber]] A little calm, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no end to the mechanism of the lifting of immunity and the abusive persecution of the political system, with good cooperation of executive and judicial authority, against the Members of the Golden Dawn. The political system enthusiasts the upward course of the popular nationalist movement, the Golden Dawn, and desperately tries to create stumbling blocks and frightens the Members of the Golden Dawn, unable to understand the transcendence of faith towards the homeland. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Listen, ladies and gentlemen, it's not a coffee shop here. Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we can finish at most in an hour, just as long as we're quiet. Apart from the practical, it is also a question of respect for any speaker who is in Stepma. Please. Please. Go on, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u5	So you cannot understand the transcendentity of the faith of the Greek nationalists towards their homeland, the faith in the ideas and the power of the will that we nationalists have, which can also move against mountains of resistance. You cannot have the party blocks left and right, red and blue, understand and understand that persecution against Golden Dawn is not only going through, not only do they scare, but they strengthen the movement, MPs, executives, friends and voters of the Golden Dawn. Today, therefore, we are discussing the request for the waiver of immunity provided by the Ice Board of Appeal for Members of the Golden Dawn, namely me and Mr Constantine Barbarousi. It has great interest in the reasoning in the case-file and speaks - listen! - to prosecute only the MPs and not the other protesters against Albanian provoking and defending the rights and security of the Greek state of Northern Epirus. So the Members will be prosecuted and not the others. This is the equality you are evangelizing, that is the constitution that you are supposed to defend. And as of September 2013, the case was filed, following the witness review, withdrew from some judiciary "rats", in order to add to the body of proceedings and persecutions with unexistent charges, legally and essentially, against the MPs of the movement. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll read a few words, not mine, and I'll tell you who they are: "However, all the Greek governments must know that the northern continental issue exists and that which is forbidden for ever is for any reason the renunciation of the sacred request. What would never have been allowed to be repeated for the Northern Continent is what - unfortunately speaking of speeches - happened with Cyprus in which the Union's refusal was written. As far as the North continent is concerned, the claim is sacred and inalienable, but the management of the matter, the way and time is a matter of government, it is a matter of international circumstances, it is a matter of history. But apart from the national claim, there is also a daily matter of urgency: the protection of the population of Northern Epirus, the protection of life, the honor and the property. At this point we have a duty to fight all the time. Our brothers and sisters ask the mother home only for continued loving support, because they live under the state of duty of tyranny and this affection we should grant them." These are words by George Papandreou on May 31, 1960, here, in this Chamber, from this Step, at a meeting of the Greek Parliament. These words clearly defined the sides of the North Continental Question, namely territorial claim and the protection of the population. This famous statement by George Papandreou, the 'citizen of democracy', as it is called, is absolutely in agreement with us and we are in this spirit. On 1 September 2013, I was at the Greek Albanian border for a political event, which took place for the fallen of the Greek army in the battles of August 1949 in the village of Vurbian. After the event taking place every year, on my own initiative, coaches, instead of continuing to leave the street of Vurbian - Athens, went to the Kakavia border on the Albanian border. We protested at the station as we protested. But let me ask how we protested. I'll read you a sworn witness test. I won't say the names for good reasons. The witness is a senior official. I file the sworn exam in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Christos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So it says: "On September 1st, 2013, about 15.35" came to Kakavia border station members of the Golden Dawn and shouted slogans in favour of Northern Epirus and its union with the mother country. I would point out that the above members of the Golden Dawn were around eighty people and, if I'm not mistaken, they came with two buses. They remained outside the customs and police bars for about half an hour to three quarters and then left quietly. They didn't enter the buildings or the customs and police corridors. They have created no problems and have not stopped circulation. No citizen was prevented because at that time there were no people passing through. Also, the operation of the Cakavias Customs was not hampered. Before the Customs Office was the police whose function was not blocked." Isn't that why we're not prosecuting? And the second witness, whom I have also given his statement in the Minutes, says about the same. I won't be long. And the second witness, who's a cop, is the head of the station, says: "The operation of our service has not been hampered. The traffic wasn't blocked. The above persons remained outside the bars, both of our service and of the customs area. Thirty minutes later they left quietly. There are other information notes that testify to my predictions." So this case went into the file. But then the so-called "golden-uplets" of the Athanasios derogatory circuit, Samaras, Doyakus and others, was recovered again. A prosecutor, who does not know what relationships he has and what role he is playing - perhaps the competitor Barbarousis knows more - and the case came back to the Greek Parliament. This has been done, I am sure - and I shall end, Mr President - as the witnesses describe it. It's nothing false. I was there. But I am telling you, unfortunately, that what had to be done was not done, that is, more protest. The sacred right to protest you left-wing left-wing defenders, who are taking a stand in favour of the occupations, which are taking a stand in favour of those who enter the Ministries, in favour of the Bolakides and all these forms of protest, the protest that was completely legitimate of you consider it to be a violation of relations between the countries of Greece and Albania. In any case, I told you what happened. And I'm telling you that I'm going back to the Cakavia customs station. I'm going with people. I'll go with coaches again. I know how to keep my promises. I do not change my views on the basis of the circumstances and of the personal interest. We nationalists - and I personally - can go to prison for our ideas, we can also make exiles, as some left-wing and now well-informed people have done and are no longer doing so. And we don't sign repentance statements, like some of us used to. I keep my promises, ladies and gentlemen. You've got it. I told the Ethics Committee that I would repeat the words of a Member of Parliament...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u6	And that's what we're closing down, Mr. Pappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u7	Slowly. This is a personal matter for me, Mr President. A little tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u8	Yeah, but I've given you double the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u9	Yes, I'm closing, Mr. President. So a Member of the Greek Parliament had made a statement at a television station today and was prosecuted by court with anti-racist law. In the Committee on Ethics, of course, you have all passed it 'oil' so that its immunity will not be waived. But for Michaeliakos, who had said at a political event of the Golden Dawn the slogan “Greece belongs to the Greeks”, all then you had voted to waive the immunity of the Secretary General of the Golden Dawn. I said, therefore, that I would repeat the same words that this Member said and repeated them, Mr President, from this step. Unfortunately, no prosecutor has been moved to initiate proceedings and to prosecute myself with anti-racist law and to see what you have to vote for. I shall conclude, Mr President, and say as far as the vote is concerned today that I wish you to vote in favour of the lifting of my immunity. I would ask, above all, the so-called 'right' ones, including the burglary of the PASOK. You in Right and PASOK overlook your tactics, the electoral tactic you have with the northern continental clubs and your MPs who go to events and dance songs "Delvinos and Tsamouria", "Ever Greek will generally be the Tepelini" etc. Cut them, you don't believe them. So, over and over and over and support the positions of the Golden Dawn and now vote in favour of my waiver of immunity. And on the so-called left, on the other system, on the other part of the precinct, the one that should normally be called "neo-liberal Left" but also the extremists....
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u10	You're indicted. Answer these.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u11	Don't interrupt, let's get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u12	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u13	Easy, easy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, it must be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u15	I'm not a defendant, there's a presumption of innocence. So I say to ignore your positions...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u16	Calm down! Well, Mr. Pappa, I also ask for your approval to delete the phrase from the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u17	Delete it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u18	Delete it, please and close it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u19	And the gentleman's phrase. So to you, the neoliberal left, I say leave the standing positions you had on NATO and so on. - the EEC and NATO - do not stand by the blockage of relations between two countries, Greece and Albania, you too, with the position of Golden Dawn and the vote in favour of the lifting of immunity. I now reveal to you, from the Minutes, that Mr Kourakis, the chairman of the Committee on Ethics, said specifically at the end - and this is what we are closing - which is of the greatest interest: 'Look at this, I accept the problem of protest, but the repetition of passions, etc. ........................................ While I was at the 'present' - 'present' - Kourakis would vote - 'after the speech', which was at the same wavelength as the current, 'Mr Papa', I am voting in favour of the lifting of immunity. Imagine, he says, "the impact it would have on the talks between Greece and Cyprus if the nationalists here and the nationalists on the other side made demonstrations". What are you saying, Mr. Kourakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Pappa, please complete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u22	Of course, the Bureau, in the belief that it expresses the overwhelming majority of this House, the democracy we have in Greece today, considers that neither one goes to prison nor is exile. Let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u23	Tell Samara that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u24	I did not ask your opinion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u25	We've been in jail for our ideas. Say that for yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u26	I did not ask your opinion. You won't tell me what the point of view is. Mr. Eliopulus, put your hand down and calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u27	Talk about Samara and Athanasios!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u28	Mr Barbarousis, you have the floor, if you wish. Put your hand down! Sit down! Sit down! Sit down for the third time! I call you to class and if you don't sit down, I'll go to the next step. Mr. Barbarousis, you have the floor. Will you speak from your position?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u29	Yes, Mr. President. We are accused, because we went to the border in Cakavia, protested and saddened your friends, Albanians and almost, he says, creating a diplomatic incident. The police, of course, also the customs officers who were there had a different view. More specifically, they swore that we did not create any problems, prevented anyone from leaving in peace. The Attorney's Attorney found that there was no predatory evidence against us and that the case had to go to the file. However, the Prosecutor of the Appeals Giorgos Silpis said the case would go to the archives for all the executives and members of the Golden Dawn that were there, except the two MPs. Apparently, the prosecutor either performed orders or is no remnants of Ali Pasha's seed, or he's no genocide like those racists who come and concentrate against our legal gatherings, because he's the greatest racist who hates his own race. So let's go to court. We don't have a problem. If that's the case, let's do it. Let the Greek people hear that the "false" he said and Patro-world will pass a trial by Greek MPs because they protested about the churches that were demolishing and demolishing the Albanians on our northern continent. If we were to be sad at your friends, the Albanians, I wish we could do it. I wish, indeed, that we be dangerous to your friendship. For me personally, as long as our Northern Continent is enslaved, war will apply and I don't want any friendship with them. Samaras brought them here with the "so I want", you fed them, you watered them, you give them Greek citizenship and Greek citizenship, you still give them the right to wear the honored uniform of the Greek soldier and the results we see. Three days ago, in the Evzone Center camp in Mesolonghi, seven well-deserved Albanians took pictures inside the camp, shaping the sign of Great Albania with their hands. The day before yesterday, gentlemen, the whole Messolong and the surrounding area was raised. And it wasn't from an earthquake. They were the bones of our ancestors that feed. They tremble the bones of those who preferred the heroic exit from falling into the hands of your Turkish-Kurkish friends. So let's go to court. We don't mind at all. We don't have a problem. As far as the waiver of my immunity is concerned, I also told you from the Step up there, and I will tell you this now: How much I care what you will vote in here and I will not even sit in your vote!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u30	Is there a colleague on the second request asking for the floor under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote on this item. A list has been drawn up with the names of colleagues for requesting the waiver of immunity. Every colleague will vote next to the Members' names on whom the waiver of immunity is sought. The person who votes in favour of the waiver of immunity takes note of his preference by the name of the Member and in the column 'NAI', that is to say, 'NAI' to the request of the prosecutor requesting the waiver of immunity. He who votes against the lifting of immunity notes next to the Member's name and to the 'NOV' column respectively 'NOV'. The voter will take note of it in the respective ballot column. Every Member of Parliament will be named, his constituency and the parliamentary group to which he belongs and will sign it, because the vote is rolled out in accordance with Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure. Subsequently, with his name on the list of colleagues, he will deliver the ballot to my fellow Members, Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis, from SYRIZA and Mr Apostolos Vésyropoulos from New Democracy - I would ask the two colleagues to take their place - who will sign it and announce that the MP has voted. After the end of the vote there will be a counting of the votes by the Members I have mentioned, as will be the result of the ballots, which will be recorded together with the protocol of vote in the Minutes of today's sitting. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u31	So the House unanimously agreed. I would like to inform you that letters or fax numbers have been sent to the Bureau, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House, in which they give their vote. These votes will be announced and taken into account in the following count. Parliamentarians Mr Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA and Mr Vassilis Yoyakas from New Democracy are on the list. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u32	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. The letters sent to the Bureau by colleagues under Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure will be recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned, and I would ask the voters to count on the votes and the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being held - unfortunately - from the top Western theories, after taking part in the 'Kapodist' training programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-one students and students and an educational attendant from the 9th General High School of Athens. As the only parliamentarian from Athens right now, I welcome you to the House. Let me inform you that you see the Chamber empty because there was a special sitting on immunity for Members of Parliament at the request of justice. The procedure is that Members whose immunity is being waived have the right to defend themselves, which has been done. And then the House voted with a clear vote. Each Member of Parliament, in his name on the ballot and in signing, decides 'yes' if he wants the immunity to be lifted, 'no' if he does not want 'the present', which is a neutral attitude. But you have reached the end of today's sitting and will only hear the announcement of the results. Still, welcome to the House! Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of a roll-call vote on the request for waiver of immunity from Members of Parliament. A total of 186 Members voted. On the case of MPs, Mr Christos Papa and Mr Konstantinos Barbarousis: In support of the lifting of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', 170 Members voted. 2 Members voted against the lifting of immunity. Vote "PARTS" 1 Member. They voted 'WHITE' 13 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore admissible for the waiver of their immunity. On the case of colleagues Evangelos Venizelos, Stavros Theodorakis, Alexandras Papapeigas, Fotinis (Phos) Genomemas, Dimitrios Koutsoubas: In favour of the waiver of immunity, i.e. 'NAH', he voted 1 Member. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to biological agents at They voted for 2 MPs. The request of the Public Prosecutor is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-25-S1-commons.u36	With the consent of the House at 13.32 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday 26 January 2017 at 9.30 p.m., on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
