ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 16/10/2017, UN minutes of Thursday 16 February 2017 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau, with regard to the resolution as a whole of the draft law: ‘National Register of Loaders, National Register of Private Social Care Entities and Other Provisions’.]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS As far as I know, nine topical questions will be discussed. We will begin with the first with number 464/13/10/2017, a topical question from the Chief of Officerial Response and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, concerning the increase of violence phenomena and the exacerbation of crime. The process will continue in response to the Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras. We shall follow the procedure that we followed last Friday, and sometimes, and there will be a relative comfort in the opinion report. What the Rules of Procedure say about first- and second-hand speeches will typically apply. Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Chief of Staff and Chairman of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u2	Mr. Tsipras, I'm glad you came to the House today. I hope to hear answers because the situation in the country is extremely serious. Ladies and gentlemen, I also had the opportunity in a previous debate on security matters to tell you that for our resignation, but I also believe that for the vast majority of Greek citizens, civil security is a very important value and freedom, of course, is something quite different from immunity. I remind you of two basic principles. First principle: The freedom of one stops where the other's freedom begins and the limits of individual freedom are defined by the law. Second principle: Civil security is an obligation of the rule of law, perhaps the most important obligation of every favoured state. It is a matter of dignity for citizens and a prerequisite for progress for the country. Anyone who's afraid is not really free. We say no to fear. We are here to remind you too, but also to everyone that the organised state has an obligation to guarantee the security, dignity and freedom of citizens, something which, unfortunately, is not happening today, because since the SYRIZA - ANEL have come to power, we have more violence and increased crime. The situation is getting worse all the time and, unfortunately, it is getting worse lately. The evidence, Mr. Tsipras, is relentless. In the first six months of 2016 we had 11% more robberies since 2015 and in the same time car and motorcycle thefts were more. They increased by 9.5%. I am tabling the relevant figures and tables, which show the tendency to reduce crime for four years and to increase it to the two years that you are running. [[At this point, the President of the New Democracy Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] These are the numbers, this is the statistic, and these numbers are not questionable, they are the official numbers, the official figures of the Greek Police. But anyway, each family has heard such a story or has to tell such a story. You put crime in everyday life and filled the news with broken images. I would just remind you of a few: urban transport vehicles are burning and vandalised. Five trolleys - five trolleys! - they've been completely destroyed only outside the polytechnic area in the last year. Ticket delivery or cancellation machines are destroyed and indiscriminately, whether they are at existing stations or new machines with the electronic ticket. Do you want numbers? Eighty validation machines have been destroyed in the past few months, while a few days ago - look out! - twenty-one ticket machines were stolen outside the campus at the painter's. Forty a gateway to exit has suffered great damage. Do you know how much each one costs? Five thousand euros! We are not spared by money at this time of the day! The playground of vandals on a state-of-the-art mechanism that inacts dangerously. Of course it's not just machines. Controllers are targeted and attacked even in their homes. The same is true for drivers who operate the routes in the sensitive areas. I mean, lawlessness is generalized and crime is spreading. And the worst of all is that this lawlessness begins and becomes normal. Most citizens don't even think the next burnt trolley. Of course, in universities, we are living in dangerous situations again. Student representatives are beaten by extremist, always aristocratic groups. And just the day before yesterday, Mr. Tsipras, a professor at Panteion University was beaten because he had the nerve to make observation to some young people who made graffiti in a public space. That was the mistake he fell into! And the next day, after going to the hospital with a broken head, he received threats to physical integrity in case he reveals the attack perpetrators. Of course, a few days ago there were serious episodes, where? In the courts! Among the members of the Golden Dawn and opposing groups. We are talking about images of lawlessness in the place where justice is being given. May I speak, ladies and gentlemen, about the Exarchia, about a historic district in the center of Athens, in which the situation has escaped all control? I speed up images and incidents: anarchists groups parade armed. The video goes online. Citizens are being prejudiced, beaten, because some people don't like what they say or just don't like their faces. Residents today - look out! - in the center of Athens they deprive ELTA services, as the operation of the ELTA store in Exarchia was temporarily suspended, due to attacks by workers there. Does this normally look like you? The robbery in the supermarkets in the region is a daily phenomenon. One store only robbed it six times. Of course, Mr Kegeroglu - I see you only as a representative of PASOK in the Chamber - your offices accept every three and a few attacks with stones, molotovs and recently with kalashnikovs. Not even the cage of MATs, which is stationed permanently in Harilau Trikoupi, is not enough to prevent these attacks. War weapons, kalashnikov, are used against policemen by terrorist organisations. And the area has evolved into something unbaptised for the Authorities, which means that the inhabitants of the Exarchates live today in a special ghetto in the center of Athens. And all this is done with the tolerance, with the government's responsibility. And let it stop, before it begins, the known specula, the specula that we, in New Democracy, have been disturbed by the freedom of Exarchates, because we are conservative and, well, you are progressive. The problem is not the particular nature of the region. We do not deal with the New Democracy with the way of life and choices of each other. We protect individual freedom and diversity. But the city and its people must be protected. It must be protected from drug trafficking, which is happening every day in Tosica, it must be protected against clearing up the accounts between gangs of criminals. And I don't think I need to tell you - I guess you know - that criminals and the new generation of terrorists have become one. The police tell you, you know, as you know very well, what the police say, there are a lot of yachts in Exarchia. But not only do nothing, the worst thing is that you don't even let the police do what they have to do. Unfortunately, the phenomenon is not confined to Exarchia alone. Similar phenomena exist in many other areas of Attica: in Zefri, in Acharnes, in Aspropyrgos. Areas such as Sophos, the New Life's settlement, the Newly built White Towers are converted into areas of lawlessness, areas where drug trafficking arises, thefts and other phenomena of small and large crime, for which, it seems, the police do not receive intervention orders. There the police department is tragically subordinated. I visited the police station in Menidi a few months ago, ladies and gentlemen. And I wonder, Minister: I wonder why in such a region with such high crime less than half the organic positions of the local police department are covered? You leave the inhabitants of these areas unprotected. They denounce that they can no longer move on the street at night. I wonder if in Greece you want the citizens to live. On all these issues we have tabled a number of questions to the relevant ministers as New Democracy. No answer is essential we haven't received. We were told that policing was not enough, but you told us that a committee - look, a committee - to study - the social conditions in the regions. You told us that you were drawing up a special policing plan, which is based on some kind of new conception aimed at a more effective approach to the citizens. That's what you've been telling us. I have no objection at first to make any committees you want, but until they end up somewhere, can the inhabitants of these regions finally live as human beings, Prime Minister? Because they don't live like people today. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So we ask you directly: can you protect the citizens and the property of the Greek people? Can you at last care for the peaceful residents of these regions who are now sinking into crime? Unfortunately, as on all other issues, Greece today is an inseparable country. The situation is not getting out of hand. The situation is getting out of hand. And he's escaped solely on your own responsibility. Or rather, it has escaped because responsibility has never been shown in your own tolerance and in your policy of tolerance. I have told you, and I have told you this again today: The distance between a molotov and a boogeyman from a kalashnikov is small, Mr Tsipras. And the theory of broken windows has been tested many times in many societies and has unfortunately been confirmed in practice. A broken window in a neighborhood is enough to bring the escalation of violence. Unfortunately - and this, perhaps, is the most tragic - in a country which has paid a very heavy tax, you are letting a new generation of terrorists be hatched. And this is due to two reasons: the first is your monumental incapacity. Unfortunately, it is the same everywhere, whether we talk about immigration or about health, in all areas where people are tested and suffering. The reality is that you have reduced, to serve your own ideas, the presence of police on the streets. The DELTA Group has been repealed. And that, even though he had provided very important services in the past. And there is no doubt that the city's image had improved for days of the previous government. The DIA Group has less presence than before. We commit that the DELLTA Group will reconstitute it, no matter how disturbing it is. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] On the one hand, we have monumental incapacity on the other hand - and that is why it is even more alarming - we have ideological obsessed with safety issues. I want to remind you that we are no longer living in the days of the Civil War or in the days of the junta. Greece is a democratic country at the heart of Europe. So stop twisting the present, undermine public order and provoke situations. There is no reason why a hatred must be maintained against the police, in the sense of security, in the sense of public order. And don't deny it because the facts are indisputable. Your first energy when you came to the government was to abolish Type III prisons of the highest security, prisons in all democratic countries. The only ones who were happy with this decision were the cruel criminals and terrorists. Your former Minister for Protection, Mr Panousis, has been mentioned several times in his targeting by SYRIZA officials who showed particular tolerance - to say so elegantly - in criminal matters. Do you want me to remind you what Mr. Panousis said or what the staff of your party's youth said about him? Of course, your Minister of Health, Mr. Xanthos, showed up the other day - that bothers you, doesn't it? - apologize to an anarchists for the non-leaving of Savva Xirus! That's what bothers you! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Why? Why did he say it in a private conversation? Or because he was recorded and leaked? Indeed, he supports this choice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u3	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u4	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u5	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u6	Aren't you a little ashamed of what you're doing?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u7	You are not a little ashamed of these matters!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u8	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u9	You must be ashamed of yourself! You must be ashamed of your staff...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u10	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u11	Be ashamed of your grasp, Mr. Lambrou, who had undertaken the negotiations with several prisoners in the Koridal. You must be ashamed of him! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from the New Democracy Ward]] And be ashamed of you and the Prime Minister for your Minister, Mr. Paradigopoulos, who, by the first law he brought to Parliament, has met almost all the demands of the terrorists. That's what you must be ashamed of. And who are all this burdening? You, Mr. Tsipras, personally. Who's covering all this politically? You, Mr. Tsipras. And I wonder if you've thought about what message you've given to other people, to citizens, when you place in your government people who have previously praised condemned terrorists and justify their robberies through unacceptable and unacceptable equations. Of course, as always happens in your days, the unprivileged. Because in Exarcheia, they don't have any glues left. Old Athenians are still inhabited in Exarchia today. In Zefri and Aspropyrgos the economic elite is not inhabited. And your failure is charged to the financially weaker, the elderly in the centre of Athens, our poorest fellow citizens, those who are unable today to move to another, safer area, the inhabitants of the degraded areas of Western Attica. As in the economy and security issues, the victims of your policy are our weakest fellow citizens, the ones you talked about in 2015 and then you took care to knee them off. So to finish, I do not want to hear theories today. I want to hear specific answers, Mr. Tsipras. How long will you continue to tolerate the parastate of Exarchates, excluding it from the laws of the Greek state? How long will you continue to care for the ghettos created in many parts of Attica, mainly in areas of western Athens? When will you finally show a will to bring in a structured plan to deal with increasing crime? When will you solve the hands of the police so that she can finally do her job? Finally, tell us, Mr. Tsipras, what you are. Are you Prime Minister or are you a provocator? And when will you look...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u12	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u13	I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u14	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u15	When will you look apathically at the situation you have caused in the country, with the same apathy as your Government is looking at every trolley that is burning? We will not, therefore, allow Greece to become an ungulate country and will not let fear prevail on the streets and squares. We believe in a free and open society. That means we say 'yes' to the law and 'no' to fear. The next government, the New Democracy government, will not only restore economic normality. It will also restore the sense of security and self-confidence of Greek citizens. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We want free, safe and decent citizens. Citizens with confidence in a Greece with confidence. You symbolize, Mr. Tsipras, a time of depression, dissolution and resignation. Fortunately, for your country, your season ends and soon Greece will rejoin a new era of freedom and confidence and the sooner this happens, the better it will be for our country! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they have previously participated in the "World Democracy Workshop" educational programme organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, twenty-five students and students and two educational attendants from the Ionian School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Alexis Tsipras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. It is obvious to all of us that Mr Mitsotakis chose a year after his election at the Headquarters of the New Democracy to table a timely question and the subject he chose for this topical question, but mainly from his presence here at the Step - while all Greek society is obviously dealing with the really topical issue that the negotiation is, while the Greek society is dealing with the real topical issue that is whether Mr Mitsotakis will at last have us answers to critical issues that concern the posting of Officerial opposition in view of the critical assessment, the reason why he went to secretly meet Mr. Soibelle in Berlin... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] ... but also his inability to answer about his party's sea loans, his inability to bring his "subject" to the House - how he invents another timely issue. Over the past few days, a very serious attempt has been made by some news reports to bring it up to time. I don't underestimate it as a matter. But it's not timely. It is a problem that we have been facing for many years, and it is about crime, which is about invasion. But it's time to say it. I shall therefore reply to Mr Mitsotakis with particulars, very specific figures. Before replying with the information, however, I would like to make a few comments. Evidently one of the many communists he has next to and trying to make his profile - really hard, really hard work! - he recommended that he show the agenda of the 'jumbo' in order to obtain a structured opposition line. After all, this is an agenda that is, you would say, the traditional agenda of the toughest right. Fear and danger to the economy, fear and danger to safety, fear and danger to national issues. In addition, he adopted this agenda and Mr Mitsotakis' predecessor, Mr Samaras, without any special success. I would like to say that this is the thin red line linking the New Democracy of Mr Mitsotakis, who appears as a so-called reformer, with the New Republic of Samaras: The policy of fear, but also the extreme right. Mr. Mitsotakis told us that it is very short the distance connecting the varopo with the kalashnikov. I would say that there is very little distance between the varopoula and the new Republic's parliamentary and ministerial headquarters, in the case of Mr Voridis! So we don't forget about this place. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] However, I am coming to answer the fundamental question you raised, Mr Mitsotakis, in your desperate attempt to create the widest impression that in the last two years there has been an outbreak of crime. I would like to tell you that these data have no basis for truth and that they are not confirmed by statistics. You tried to say something about increasing the robbery, but you compare things unparalleled, because you are obviously among the robberies and the petty, the stealing of mobile phones. Of course, I will tell you directly that you have come to the House today to make a war of impression and to say that the government is not willing to guarantee order and legitimacy. So I'll tell you openly that you're lying, Mr. Mitsotakis, and the evidence is flawing you. There is, of course, a question of crime. As long as there has been all the previous years, the years you have ruled, but there is no outbreak of crime in recent times, and of course there is no indifference on the part of the government, which you insinuate. On the contrary, there is an intense action by the police, which is seen daily in the newsroom, by dismantling crime circuits, by organized plans and by companies and very efficiently, but I imagine you are not so interested in this. What you are interested in is to create impressions, to say that the government leaves the hoodmen uncontrollable because of the left of idealism, to argue that the government does not predominate the issue of the security of citizens. Reading your question, but also listening to you talking from this Step, one believes that until that government took over the Exarcheia, it was probably a paradise, that there had never been episodes in Patisia, nor attacks on Charilaos Trikoupi, nor on Aspropyrgos, Zephyri, Menidi. You claim that all these events began on our day, that infraction and illegality at the place began in January 2015. I would therefore like to ask you directly to tell us what you, who this government suddenly stopped doing when it was elected and how, according to your claim, where there was complete social peace, it suddenly broke off infringing and explaining it to the Greek Police, which also publishes completely different figures, facts and statistics from what you claim, but without any essential evidence, unless you question the Greek Police's data. I would suggest that you do not even bother, because we are all aware that here you have come to set up a communication firework and tell us that for whatever window it breaks, it is left and SYRIZA, whether it is in the government or in the opposition, regardless of the fact that this practice of broken windows, particularly in times of social reactions and movement, only the Left is harming, regardless of whether or not this practice of broken windows has often been called into question for undermining peaceful mobilisations and for attacks against peaceful protesters in your days. What you are interested in is to charge to the Left and especially to the SYRIZA the responsibility of any such incident. Of course, I would like to ask myself about this, Mr Mitsotakis, which you spoke about twenty-two minutes and you referred to various events that have taken place and which have taken place all the previous years, events in Patisias, the burning of some trolleybuses or incidents around the Exarchates or in Charilaos Trikoupi. You didn't say anything about the fact that every three and a little hoodlers are attacking the home of Minister Flambury. You didn't have anything to say about that. Do you know why you didn't have anything to say about it? Maybe because you couldn't afford the same convenience to deliver the reciprocity. Mr Mitsoitakis, if I felt that you had come here for a serious and controversial parliamentary debate and not for a written impression, I would have told you that infringability really exists at the place. I was gonna tell you one more thing. It's not just Greece. There's all over the world. There is even in Germany, which you were the other day and which, as you well know, does not govern the Left and SYRIZA there. I would also say that it is a phenomenon of decades and has continued, regardless of who is in the government. But what has not always been on the ground in recent years - and that is our great difference - is our understanding of the role and the way the police plays, our perception of the repression. Our logic of dealing with infraction is absolute professionalism and efficiency in police operations. You didn't care much while you were in the government. And you were not interested in safeguarding the authority, dignity and self-respect, I would say, of the Police Corps. But that's what we're interested in. We are interested in having a European state police, effective and professional, a police force that will not hit by passers and will not kick 15-year-olds wearing cuffs. I believe that to a large extent we have achieved this. And we have achieved this mainly thanks to the excellent cooperation and professionalism shown by the leadership of the Greek Police. Now, if you consider effective policy only to overcome the limits and abuse of power, whether you are a hostage of the far right wing of your resignation or try to fish in the blurred waters of votes from the Golden Dawn or both together. But this debate, Mr Mitsotakis, does not concern us. For our own perception hooliganism is hooliganism. We don't care if some people burn buses because they lost their team or because they think they're supposedly hitting capitalism or just because they're getting rid of it. Treatment and measures must be the same. And surely addressing is not inertia and tolerance, but for you our difference is that it is not the same. It is another thing, for example, that violence in the field - for which I have not seen you have shown great sensitivity throughout the past period and now - and another thing about you is violence in the Exarcheus, because you want to load it with ideological content, because very simply violence in the courts, Mr Mitsotakis, you cannot use it politically. It is no coincidence that in your question you do not raise the issue of football violence, which had nowadays taken appalling proportions, but you never dared to touch the phenomenon. You didn't take the slightest measure. We had to come in here to deal with, stop the championship three times, throw penalties, even get the Anti-terrorist to act to break the circuits. So why don't you deal with this? Since you are so interested in dealing with violence, why didn't you do anything about field violence? Because you only care about the violence in which you can stick to some ideological retina. Football hooliganism don't touch him, you don't care, because the Left won't get stuck there, and also because there are great interests playing, with which you have proved yourself doing fine, Mr. Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We, therefore, are disturbed by all kinds of hooliganism, regardless of whether it invokes ideological motives, football motives or anything else. As far as weapons are concerned, it is, of course, terrorism, but as with your days and, yes, we are acting for their dismantling, as I would like to believe, it has been in your own days. I do not want to oppose this. But I want to tell you that we have results, but obviously you do not want to recognise these results. I will tell you, then, that during the two years 2015-2016 eight terrorist cases were arrested, culminating in the arrest of the leader of the terrorist organization "Revolutionary Race", which has been wanted since 2012. When you were arrested for terrorism, you went to twitter, Mr. Mitsotakis, and you congratulated the police. I remind you. But now that you want to save and well change the agenda, you pass over the facts, to set up the account of the abundant Greece. This attitude is not serious. I have to say that despite your desperate attempt to create a climate - and, of course, as I said at the outset, despite the attempt of friendly media, you have just tabled the question, to make great tributes to the violence in Exarcheia - and to create the record suddenly that the country has surrendered to the mercy of anarchism, your evidence is disgusting. I would therefore like to provide you with the comparative information, which comes from the Greek Police itself. Vehicle arson in the Excavations Area: Forty-three in 2010, sixty-eight in 2011, one in 2012, fifty-one in 2013, twenty-four in 2014. And then came this government that "dissolved everything"! Again twenty-four in 2015 and twenty in 2016. So tell me, where's the excitement... [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Okay, we can turn it over to the fun, obviously. When the evidence doesn't come out, we turn it into a joke, we make jokes. We didn't have, he says, cars to burn. When reality doubts you, you cannot say 'the worst for reality'. Admit you're coming here with wards to make impressions. That's all you are for impressions! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But I'm continuing with the evidence. Attacks on police targets in Exarchia: in 2011 forty-seven attacks, in 2012 fifty-one attacks, in 2013 twenty-six attacks, in 2014, nineteen attacks. Then, over the SYRIZA and ANEL co-governments, nineteen attacks in 2015 and nineteen again in 2016. Where's that outburst of the crime you're talking about? And, in any case, did you know that evidence? Why didn't you ask them for the Greek police to give them to you before you tabled this question? One more thing about the so-called 'abbey in Exarchia'. As long as I remember myself since the 1980s, I remember that in Exarches there have been tensions. I imagine you'll remember that too, you're a little older than me. I'm sure your other members like Mr. Voridis will remember, who also participated in these episodes sometimes. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In any case, however, the Exarcheia was in fact always an area which, like its inhabitants, was, not mainly from the incidents in the peripheral university schools, but mainly from the action of circuits and especially from the action of drug trafficking circuits. Of course, because I have experience, because I was living in a period of my life as a student in this area, I know that very well. Do you understand, Mr. Mitsotakis, when the police first came in to catch these drug-trafficking circuits in Exarchia? He came in last summer, in June 2016. When he made a business, he arrested fourteen people allegedly involved in drug circuits. No operation has taken place in your day to break the drug ring in Exarcheia. Home searches were carried out, drug seized, an entire circuit was dismantled, which was a state in the state and was acting almost openly in the Exarchy Square. Ask the residents of the region to confirm that. So I ask you: why did this operation not take place on your day, since you are so well in order, and we are in anarchy? So who do you come from today and ask for the change? See what has happened over the days of our government, even in the matter of what some people call the 'abbey of Excavations'. I continue with the data: On 31 January 2016 there was a dismantling of a criminal organisation for smuggling tobacco products, the arrest of twenty-seven people. On February 23 and 24, 2016, we had dismantled a criminal organization for arson, protest incidents, hooliganism, attacks on police officers with molotov drops, arresting five people. On May 17, 2016, we had dismantled a criminal organization for committing robberies andfts in houses, sixteen arrests and thirty-two cases. On July 11, 2016, we had the dislocation of a criminal drug trafficking organisation, fourteen people were arrested and thirty-four pounds of cannabis were seized. It's the operation I mentioned, within Exarchia, where thirty-four pounds of cannabis were confiscated. But not only in Exarches, but also outside Exarchies. On 29 September 2016, there was dismantling in the wider Athens region of another criminal organization, arresting six members and seizing a large amount of drugs and weapons. On 13 October 2016, a structured transnational criminal organisation was dismantled for traficking, arresting five people and identifying five people. On 25 and 26 November 2016, a criminal organisation in the same area was dismantled with a hundred forty-six members, of whom ninety-seven were arrested and large quantities of drugs were seized, large sums of money and robbery products. That's for you, isn't it? It's not! You don't insult us. The Greek police are offended. You insult these people who live in danger every day and do their job efficiently and professionally. I'd like to reply to you on the Minidium and Zephyri. There have been numerous police operations. Multiple circuits have been dismantled, active in drug trafficking and theft. Such operations, of course, were before us. I do not want to claim here that we have the first. But again, if we were to be able to talk seriously today - because I think you did not come for serious debate - I would say that the issue there is not just solved by police operations and mass arrests. There is a world there that first needs to be integrated socially, a world that for decades has been evicted into the margin and has absolutely no prospect of social integration, not even basic education. For this world crime would say that it is an easy choice, regardless of whether the majority of these people are trying to work and live honestly. But it is funny to claim that these phenomena have been phenomena for the last two years since we took over. So please, and I repeat this, you do not underestimate us, you underestimate these people, the officers and the simple policemen who are in danger every day when you manage to gain impression. And, of course, I would like to tell you that it is not an honor to claim that the police are not interfering in these areas. However, I would also like to give here the police data on western Athens. In West Attica two thousand nine hundred ninety-five cases were committed and three thousand four hundred and thirty-eight people were arrested in cases of serious and organised crime. And, in order to have the pan-Hellenic elements, I should like to tell you that, and if you need them to ask a next question, when you're in a difficult position, you'll want to get out of the deadlock again with security issues. Throughout Greece in 2015-2016 we had four hundred fourteen thousand arrests of people for homicide, robberies, thefts, burglaries, drugs, fraud and forgery. Six hundred and eighty-eighty-three major criminal coils were seized, 12.5 tonnes of cannabis, seven hundred-seven pounds of heroin, two hundred and ten pounds of cocaine, ten thousand cannabis trees and six hundred and fifty-seat weapons, and about eighty thousand serious cases of common and organised crime were detected. These results, Mr Mitsotakis, are results for which some policemen have put their lives at risk. So you are insulting and questioning when you come here to Parliament and say that the country is in the mercy of anarchy. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] That's all about data and figures, I hope we're done. And now, Mr Mitsotakis, let me also deal with the essential issue of the substantive answers, why did you come here today to table this question. And let me, since you have asked me not so much a timely question, I would ask you before I come down from the Step, to ask you, in order to be able to answer me, a really timely question, to ask you a really timely question, not a question from the friendly news reports of the last few days, a question that concerns the timeliness and topicality of the last few days is the negotiation. So tell us, Mr Mitsotakis, exactly what you went to do in Germany a few days before the critical Eurogroup. What exactly did you discuss behind closed doors with Mr. Symble so secretly and secretly that you didn't even want to give the public a picture? You told us - your circles and the announcements of the New Democracy Press Office - that you went there to present, says, for seventy-five minutes your proposal to exit the crisis. And I ask you: did you have seventy-five minutes to Mr. Shoeble, to us here in the Greek people, do you not have five minutes to present it to us to us about the exit of the crisis? [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] And because, Mr. Mitsotakis, no one was glorified for hiding, do not think that it will come to good at such a critical time for the place, do not take a position and constantly criticise it safely. So today I give you a chance, take a stand and tell us clearly. Do you agree with the International Monetary Fund's requirements for EUR 4 billion measures after the end of the programme? Do you recognize or not the positive course of the Greek economy and the elements of the Community and EUROSTAT, which prove that the economy has been overpaid, that we have returned to positive growth and therefore no further adjustment is needed? Or do you also identify yourself in this regard with the incomprehensibility of any serious economists' positions and objections of the International Monetary Fund? And finally, do you continue to insist that the Greek Government, which seeks to protect Greek society, is responsible for the delays, not the International Monetary Fund with its irrational demands? These are, in fact, topical questions right and we expect straight and clear answers from you, Mr Mitsotakis, and not meetings behind closed doors and criticism from the safe. Safe criticism is an irresponsible attitude at this critical moment when the place passes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and have been informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, sixty students and students and four educational sessions of the Drama Music Gymnasium. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Now is the speech by the Chief of Staff and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mitsotakis. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u19	Mr Tsipras, you insulted me because I asked you a timely question, which you did not consider so timely, because, as you said, the entire Greek society today is dealing with the course of the negotiation. And to some extent you're right. But I imagine that the first person to deal with the course of the negotiation is your Finance Minister, who found the time last night, to watch a football match in a football suite.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u20	Please calm down, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u21	So be careful, Mr. Tsipras, who are you accusing of selective relationships with players in football when your own ministers in public view are with them, especially when these factors also have loose ends with the Greek State. So I would ask you to be a little more careful. Like also a friendly encouragement, Mr Tsipras, for what it is worth, because someone obviously advised you in the latest appearances, to speak of my face rather with degrading remarks and quite ironically. You know, other political criticism and irony.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u22	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u23	Be quiet, gentlemen. Mr. Panjah, please. Please do not interfere. Mr. Mitsotakis, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u24	When, Mr Tsipras, you fall short of fifteen points in the polls, I would recommend that you be a little more careful when making suggestions in the Civic Opposition. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I understand you've come into a difficult position, but your irony won't get you out of the deadlock. I will reply briefly to the questions you have raised on the problem of safety. I must tell you, Mr Tsipras, that you did not convince me with your answers. You have not convinced me that you have a structured plan to deal with crime and that you were able to list one of the police operations, rather it makes me suspect that there are few and not many, Mr Tsipras. You have not convinced me that you have a plan to deal with the exacerbation of the small and medium-sized violence experienced by all Greek citizens today. You have attempted to present a picture of a city that does not respond to reality. You have not said a word about the fact that there is a systematic attempt to attack public transport, for which I have given concrete evidence. Of course, I would like to remind you that I did not exercise my criticism of the Exarcheia alone, but I referred to the situation which prevails in the matter of public order throughout Athens. And, of course, you did not say anything about your legislative initiatives in the first half of 2015, when you and the relevant Minister rushed, to meet all the demands of the terrorists, by legislating in this very Chamber to meet their basic demands. That's why you said no word. I understand that it is very difficult for you, but you must understand today, Mr Tsipras, through the impeccable protected bouquet of the Great Maximos, from which you do not often come out, that citizens feel unsafe today, Mr Tsipras. They feel more insecure than they felt two years ago. And, yes, the apparent presence of the police through the DELTA and DIAIAH teams acts dissuasively, especially for small and medium-sized infringements. This is something I hope you will finally be able to understand and not be confined to reading the information provided to you by your competent Minister, which, in our view, does not correspond to reality. However, they certainly do not respond to what Greek citizens are experiencing and feeling, which today feel much more unprotected and much more exposed to small and medium-sized crime than they felt two years ago. But now, since you have asked me about topicality, as you have set it. In other words, the negotiations. Since we are given the opportunity to meet today in this House, let us therefore talk about these issues, Mr Tsipras. You have put the country back on a very dangerous and downhill path. Where you want to take her, you only know it. One thing is certain, Mr Tsipras, that an assessment that should have been closed just a year ago, in February 2016, has not been closed today. And, of course, these consequences bring black thoughts, but they are causing, Mr Tsipras, and an impact on the real economy. How do you explain the fact that within forty-five days we have leaked EUR 2.5 billion from the banking system, despite the fact that we still have capital controls? Unfortunately, no one trusts you, and the citizens, with their fresh memory in the first half of 2015, are making sure they react sharply to any uncertainty treaty. You brought back the "black cloud" of the drachma and GDP of the fourth quarter of 2016 decreased by 0.4% compared to the corresponding quarter of 2015, penalising a desperate effort made by the few forces that have remained in the economy for growth. And, of course, I will also explain some economic indicators to you to see the enormous damage which your own policy of delay has caused to the real economy. Consumer confidence retreated to 67,8 points in January 2017. The PMI order indicator has fallen back to 48,3, which is the worst performance in the last 12 months. The decline in unemployment has stopped. The information ‘ERGANIS’ for January 2017 is disappointing. Even what you yourself said is extremely important, quantitative relaxation, your ministers go out today and say: "It's okay if we don't do it, people aren't lost." Isn't that what Mr. Stathakis told us, Mr. Tsipras? Correct me if I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u25	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u26	What's the matter? Is it okay, Mr. Tsipras? Don't forget that we're asking and you're answering this procedure. Unless you've reversed the role of Prime Minister and Chief of Opposition. Don't worry, soon this will come too. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So, Mr. Tsipras, are we going to get into quantitative relaxation in March 2017, or is this objective which is absolutely necessary in order to settle the situation in the economy, has it gone for a walk? You talk to us all the time about the Commission's assessments. So I'm telling you, Mr. Tsipras, I'd like them to be verified. But don't tell us. We have been telling you for too long that the potential of the real economy is far greater than your own potential, Mr Tsipras, and that at some point your continued failure must stop becoming a failure of the country. You repeat half-truths all the time. You know, half the truths are gathered, they're worse than the greatest lie. Because all forecasts of economic progress in 2017, Mr Tsipras, have one condition. That the evaluation should already have been closed and that the climate will not be destabilised in the economy and that, of course, the necessary changes and reforms that the country needs will finally move forward. Do you do anything about all this, Mr. Tsipras? Oh, no. And not only are you delaying but you are undermining the very course of the reforms. In fact, since we have the opportunity to have a little more vibrant dialogue today, what do you think about the signing of your Greek MPs' question? Do you agree? What do you really think of that investment? Do you think it's a useful investment, which should be done? Will it create jobs or is it a necessary evil, which has been imposed on you by the troika and which will be undermined at every opportunity in order to satisfy your left-wing fantasies? What most Members believe I know about it. I want to know what you really think about this investment. Do you want her or do you really want her, Mr. Tsipras? Because I fear that, behind the face of supposed compliance with structural requirements, an unrepentant ideologist enemy of private initiative and enemy of productive investment is finally hiding. These are the scripts you give. As we speak of the Commission's estimates, if I accept that the Commission's estimates of which you have established, were and are correct for 2017, I imagine you will also accept, that the Commission's 2014 assessments of the economic progress in 2015 and 2016 were also correct, Mr Tsipras. Isn't that right? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What, then, did these assessments say? They said 2.9% growth for 2015 and 3.7% growth for 2016. And what did we finally have? We had a recession in 2015, limiting growth in 2016. And what was the final result, Mr. Tsipras? Let me tell you. We had 20 million lost GDP. How much does the rope cost at the hanger's house, Mr. Tsipras? It only costs $20 billion in lost GDP. I really am surprised that you referred to my meeting with Mr. Shoeble. But the most interesting thing is that you called it a secret meeting. A secret was your meeting in Rochild, Mr. Tsipras. This is the secret meeting. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Let's agree on the words a little. The Prime Minister takes the Prime Minister's aircraft, goes to Paris without announcing anything, is not accompanied by the responsible ones, he only announces the meeting after he has learned all the Greek that this journey took place in Paris and tells us that you met with Rochild. Why exactly did you meet and who did you see? I saw Mr. Shoeble and I'll tell you what I told him. Who exactly did you see in Rochild? Do you think it would be reasonable for the Prime Minister of the country to go on his own without being accompanied by officials, and what, Mr Tsipras, should we negotiate with a bank with which there is no agreement? This is, then, the secret journey for which you must answer. And since you will then be given the opportunity, I think that not only we, but also the entire Greek people, are very much looking forward to your explanations. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You see, when you get away from the written text and talk about secret meetings - because you didn't have that in the text - you have to commit errors sometimes, Mr. Tsipras. I would recommend that you remain more committed to what is written by your writers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u27	Alas!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u28	Let's go to the meeting with Mrs. Merkel and Mr. Shoeble. So let me remind you that Mr. Shoeble had met him as leader of the opposition, and as Prime Minister you ran every three minutes, you went to Mrs. Merkel, the same Mrs. Merkel you said: 'Go back, Mr. Shoeble. Go back, Mademoiselle Merkel." That's what you said. Isn't that right? So we don't forget. ‘Go back’ and now you're running. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But there is a great difference between us. There is a big difference, Mr Tsipras, that I speak the same language abroad and inside. This is something hard to understand, but you know, so the political credibility is finally built and it will take a lot of effort, unfortunately, to correct the image of the country abroad after the damage you have done. So what do I say abroad? What did I say to Mrs. Merkel? What did I say to Mr. Shoeble? What do I say to the Greek people? I imagine you've got a chance right now and then in your free time, to watch my public positions as well. You will certainly see my speech in Thessaloniki, so that you do not say that we speak different things within and outside Greece. So what do we say? Yes, the country needs smaller primary surpluses than 3.5%. In order to claim the smaller primary surpluses, we must be credible in reforms, because if we are not credible in reforms, we will be constantly asked for more primary surpluses. So I told Mr Shoeble and Mrs Merkel what I'm saying in public. Greece needs more budget air than it has and the one to which you have enclosed us with your agreement for primary surpluses of 3.5% for ten years. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But I said something else, I said it publicly, and I said it in private, and I have no problem revealing it here in the National Parliament. Any reference to the drachma must end. This statement was not only made in Greece, I also made it in Berlin to hear it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So at the time when I made this statement, you continue to tolerate your parliamentary representative opening up a drachma issue. That's our difference, Mr. Tsipras. I closed the drachma. Greece belongs to the Eurozone and will do everything it needs to stay in the Eurozone. Did you call your Parliamentary Representative to the class when he opened a drachma issue with such great comfort? Of course, I am very impressed by the fact - I cannot comment on it, since you spoke about means and interests - that one of your warmest supporters in the press, Mr. Kouris is a fanatical dragon's fiercer. How do you explain that, Mr. Tsipras, really? How do you explain it? So, let's be a little more careful next time when you're talking about interests and complexity, because the drachma orchestra, you know, keeps stumbling and messing up, because it's probably the conductor who's hiding. So take your place today and commit yourself. And collect your staff, too, because every time they come out and shake a drachma, the spreads go up, the deposits leave the banks and some companies go bankrupt because they are drowned by the lack of liquidity. Well, the situation is very serious, Mr. Tsipras, to deal with it with so much lightness. You have again raised and raised the issue of the IMF at all times. You also put yourself here at some point, Mr Tsipras, because you were the ones who sent letters to the International Monetary Fund to participate in the programme and you are constantly leaking that you would like to leave it. The reality, Mr Tsipras, is that the delay has a great deal of cost and this cost are being paid today and the Greek citizens will pay for it. And you ask us today: 'Do you want to or do you not want to take any further measures? Who are you finally with?’ You have led us to the dilemma 'forward and backward stream' and then you say: 'What am I supposed to do now? Should I jump into the cliff or fall into the stream?" But the question, Mr Tsipras, which we are asking you is why we have reached this point. Because once again you have learned absolutely nothing. You are constantly repeating the same mistake. Your first semester experiments cost us 100 billion euros. The first time you've come to governance has been traumatic for the economy, and the delay in our first assessment has cost us Mr. Katrugalos' insurance, the cutter, the superstition. I wonder: How much this delay will cost again in the country? I read various leaks, Mr Tsipras, and I really say that I am annoyed as a Greek citizen by European officials and are told that the evaluation is not like the wine that we are waiting for is getting better. It is a shame that this is happening - for the country, Mr Tsipras, not for you personally, unfortunately - to face us with such a sense of irony. You've got a lot of responsibility because we got this far. So I ask you directly. I answered the questions. Now you'll answer mine, too. Did they need the measures they are asking us for today, if the evaluation was closing in February 2016? Answer directly. Did they need these measures if the assessment was to be closed in February 2016? Is it or isn't the price of delay? A small technical detail I shall mention, as it is worthwhile for those involved in these issues: why did you not table, Mr Tsipras, and did not vote for the medium-term programme when the third programme was put into effect? You have been delayed two years and through the medium term you are pressing the most extreme voices to claim additional measures for 2019 and 2020. So why didn't you vote for it in the medium term? Secondly, give us an answer, since I can't see Mr. Chakalotto here. He probably didn't make it back from his soccer searches! Have we done or haven't we done a third of what it takes to close the evaluation? Is this true or isn't it? How many loose ends are there? Thirdly, is your declaration that the assessment should be closed as soon as possible? I have here a dozen statements about how the evaluation would be closed, already closed in December, or should finally be closed in January. You've been saying the same thing since September. You yourself said from this step forward that the evaluation must be carried out at all events on 5 December. And Juliarakis - nor do I see him here - said something, which I want you to comment on: 'Better worse deal now than later'. Did he say that or didn't Mr. Juliarakis say that, Mr. Tsipras? He said it. I expect you to comment on it, because time is costly. Your Minister understands that. And if we don't close the evaluation now, what will the consequences be? I want you to guarantee here, Mr Tsipras, what happens when the evaluation is closed. I would like to begin by saying that the New Democracy tells you to close the evaluation in the best possible way as soon as possible and do not distort our officials' statements. So I say this to you: if the evaluation is finally closed, Mr Tsipras, have you ensured that we have access to quantitative relaxation? Have you ensured that, together with the closure of the assessment, there will also be a solution, a roadmap for medium-term debt measures, or will the assessment be closed by additional measures, which will bear your signature without even having the benefit of quantitative relaxation? And you dare ask if we want to close the review or go to elections. After we have said so clearly, we have told you too many times: you have the sole responsibility for the negotiation and the sole responsibility for the delays. So don't look, Mr. Tsipras, for corporations and accomplices. He didn't stop you from calling for elections to close the negotiation. Isn't that right? You're the ones negotiating. You were prevented by the game you're playing until today, the fake sluts, the supposed negotiation, the conversations with the components. Your objective is obviously the same: massage in the parliamentary group to finally vote for the measures that you will bring, which you have fought with so much trouble and with so much sweat and have tried to bring additional measures of EUR 3.6 billion, which no one asked us three months ago! That's the reality. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I'm hanging up. All for power, Mr. Tsipras. You're destroying the country because you can't rule it. The sooner you leave, the better it will be for Greek citizens and for the future of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much. The debate will be closed with the Prime Minister's denunciation. It has been given full comfort, precisely because the agenda has been widened and I think it is going smoothly. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Mitsotakis, your presence was, at least, sad today. It is regrettable that the Chief of Officerial Response is not only trying to evade, not to take a clear stand on the critical question of days in relation to the irrational demands of the lenders, but to present the picture of a miserable one, which is really incarcerated, the great effort made by the Greek Government not to load the burdens on the Greek people, to fail, so that he himself then came to say safely: "I myself who asked for an election before and said not to close the assessment - just to fall - but, at the same time, I was telling you to close it instantly, in order to take measures, I am the same person now saying that you have closed it with great burdens on the Greek people." It's a tactical irresponsible one. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] You'll sit down and listen carefully now. You won't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u31	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u32	You will not escape the answers you will get before the Greek people. Mr Mitsotakis will get answers today for this disgraceful presence here in the Step of the House, but also in Berlin a few days before the crucial negotiation. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Of the safe policy of irresponsibility for the place and for the large social majority, that is all you have to produce as a contribution. You come here and you accuse us that we, he says, are the ones who charge the Greek people surpluses. You think he's a fool to the Greek people? She doesn't remember what you signed? More than 4,5% of them you signed. We, 4.5%, made it 3.5%, and that means 20 billion euros more budget space for the three years. Of course you come here and say that the second assessment had to be closed since February 2016. Make sure you don't remember the first shutdown in May 2016. How would the second close in February 2016, while the first close in May 2016? [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Stop it. Let me finish. And above all, you do not remember that in May 2016 for the first assessment, when the "usually suspects" questioned with you the performance of the Greek economy for 2016, 2017 and 2018 and predicted that the cutter would be activated, that we would not catch the surpluses, that we would not have a return to growth, that we were asked again for EUR 3.6 billion of GDP - just the same - extra austerity measures then you would not take a position, whether we should accept them or not. Once again, you have criticised yourself: 'Close, close!','receive', or ask for elections. It was you. Of course not everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u33	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u34	Of course not everyone. Mr. Mitsotakis assisted by the most aggressive ones in the party, the most extreme ones, as well as some of the publishing interests that put him before this dance, just as soon as he was elected President, because the only thing they wanted was to save their debts, their loans and themselves. [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] Because, indeed, there were members of the Conservative Party who had another view, that what is important at the critical times for the place is not a stand of irresponsibility and that we should watch the government fail, but see how it will be possible for the social majority that was looted on your own days, Mr Mitsotakis. You cannot ignore the fact that for five years, from 2010 to 2015, 25% public wealth has shrinked over your own days. You are looking today with an agonizing - and indeed - to find evidence that the Greek economy is not going well, even now that EUROSTAT comes out, and it shows that we have had 0.3% growth, while the forecasts were 0.3% recession for 2016. Even now that we have the results of 2016 for the primary surplus, which instead of 0.5% that was the target, we have more than 2% surplus, when you and the interests that they support you have written vulgar titles that the cutter will be activated in 2017, you come to find with anguish evidence that the economy is not going well. You refer to data that you once again present as you wish, because in the fourth quarter of 2016 we had an increase in growth rates compared to the corresponding quarter of 2015, higher than when the crisis occurred in the country. In any case, I would say this to you. Your opposition and seriousness are exhausted in making jokes about the presence of the Treasury Minister in a football match, as if anyone who is in constant tension is forbidden to watch a football match. But you didn't stop there. You also left misguidedly, because it was in the official seat and watched the football match with the President of PAOK. What do you mean? Do you have anything to say? Why don't you say it directly? Unless what you have to account for him - and that's where I'll agree with you - is that Mr. Chakalotos is gantemi and yesterday PAOK lost 3-0! [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] This thing is, I'll agree with you. Everything else is misguided and a sign of inability to set a serious argument in your account. But I am coming, Mr Mitsotakis, to the next points you have raised. You said that the potential is greater - all right, we have growth - of the Greek economy than we manage. Really, since they're so much bigger, why didn't you use them when you were government? Why did you five years have plunged us into the recession, made us crazy about taxes, and the Greek people lost 25% of their GDP and cuts in pensions all the time? Why did you leave the funds in 2015 empty? Why, while we were going to have a surplus, have we had much smaller, essentially empty funds and have led to this adventure? So why didn't you make it? I'll be right there. You have obviously not responded directly once again to the crucial issue that I raised to you about your view, the position of the New Democracy in relation to the measures and you know why you have not responded? Because your line raves it to the Greek people, your most popular Vice-President, Mr. Georgiadis. Here he is, be a good man! She's laughing at her. So he goes out on the windows and says what you, in your written words, can't say behind the lines. And he went out, and said "elections, not to close the evaluation, for what must be done is to drop the government". That's your line. Then he said one more thing, which, of course, is the truth. I will not say the known proverb "from whom you learn the truth," but that is the truth. [[Laughers from the wing of SYRIZA]] The truth, therefore, that Mr Georgiadis said on remote windows, was that 'we and so much of what the lenders and Symble would do in order to close the evaluation'. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Well, if the Greek people have the image of exactly what you would do, if we had the misfortune in these critical times about the place you were in governance. Let's go down. You mentioned, Mr Mitsotakis and the subject of the Greek. Mr Mitsotakis, respect for archaeological and environmental conditions is a condition not to fail an investment, but to achieve an investment. This investment is of a particular symbolic and essential nature, it must proceed. That is my answer right: we must proceed quickly, if we can get the works started in 2017. However, it is a prerequisite for this investment to begin to comply with the procedures laid down by the Constitution and by the law. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would like to tell you that we have also had examples of your own efforts to invest which, precisely because you wrote in your old shoes provided for, have never proceeded, such as the Star, who broke down thanks to our own efforts and thanks to the fact that we made a renegotiation and brought things within the legal framework and proceeded with the investment. In any case, if you came here to plead for me and the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group for questions, I would ask you to see your own question about the "stop of the nation", which you have collected. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Let's go down. You had...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u35	Quiet, please! Mr. Triantafylide, please! Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u36	You have had, Mr Mitsotakis, the unfortunate inspiration today to invoke from the Step of the House, the well-known misery invoked by your officials in the media in relation to a stop over, that is, a attitude I have made from Lisbon to Athens, in Paris, on a planned trip, not secretly - it is not a voyage, when the French Government is aware, when the Greek Embassy is aware - in order to meet some investors. Of course, if that was what your Prime Minister Mr Samaras once did, he would be the man who works in his free time to bring investments in Greece. When I do it, it's either misery, because I'm going to walk my children to Disneyland, as you were going to the right - to the left the misery of your own parafisy and paralysed or, of course, when this was disguised misguided, because you were setting up a whole media scandal, but with your statements you also asked for passenger lists and went out and said your most popular Vice President that there was nowhere, but anywhere with investors and I'm lying...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u38	Because a clean sky of lightning is not afraid and there was nothing to hide and I gave all of my programme to Paris, you changed the trophy and, of course, I did not see it being using the Prime Minister's aircraft to take a vacation, but the trophy was that the meetings were suspicious. So I want to tell you what these suspicious meetings were. You referred here to the meeting with the Rothschild. Let me tell you exactly what the suspect is. What's the suspect? Decision of the Public Debt Management Agency before I go...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u39	Decision? Deposit it!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u40	Sure. Don't give me that now. You'll hear them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u41	Quiet! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u42	First of all, you owe me to testify. Because if I start now to ask you to deposit your "subjects" and maritime loans, you will not even have dawn here. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Don't tell me to testify!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u43	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u44	So whatever you want me to testify, I will testify, Mr Mitsotakis. But don't scratch yourself in the cup of chop. Don't do that. Really, don't. It won't do you any good. Let's go down. So there was a decision to work together, because to get a country out of the market, it obviously needs to be able to consult with shapes that know how, in order to make the best possible conditions for it to come out on the market. It's not a simple thing to get out on the market. I would remind you, therefore, that the previous governments had received a corresponding advisor to the 'LAZARD'. It was ten times more precise for the Greek State than the corresponding contract, which we negotiated - and we are now moving - with 'ROTHCHILD'. The reason for the meeting was obviously, despite the misery some have launched to the right and left, it was to discuss and shape the terms with which the country will come out in good time and at a good interest rate on the markets. So you come, Mr Mitsotakis, and once again - and that is something I would not advise you to do so - you speak personally to mention and repeat the same misery. So to close this story, I take it back to you. I in Paris, Mr. Mitsotakis, went and stayed in a hotel. I didn't stay at Voltaire's house. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I challenge you, if you have the honesty, and after you ask me to submit things to the House and to the public, to present your "before" publicly, because if you do not submit it tomorrow and wait in March, it means that you have something to hide, Mr. Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] What do you have to hide? If you are a clean sky that is shy, tomorrow morning to make a public statement on the "subjects" rather than on me with supposedly secret meetings in Paris! Let's go down. What you did in the past few days, in relation to your meeting, with your presence in Berlin, was - and I will say it directly - a misery. Why was it a misery? You went out and said you'd wear the shirt of National Greece. Eventually, however, the shirt of national Greece doesn't fit you and you once again wore the lenders' shirt of the IMF. And you came out at the most critical time of the negotiation, to make public statements from Berlin that Greece has responsibility for the delays, when that is not what anyone dares to say in the European field. Only the IMF says so is CDU extremists.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u46	And why is it that Greece has the responsibility for the delays and not the ones who put in place irrational demands? You came here today and you reiterated the mole that says that we have implemented only 30% of the second evaluation. Obviously, you did not hear Mr. Tsakalotou's answer...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u47	Chaakatos says that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u48	Stop it. I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u49	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u50	Obviously, you did not hear Mr Tsakalotou's answer, which was very clear and said that 70% has been agreed and that from this 70%, which has been agreed, 35% has already been implemented and legislated. The other 35% will obviously be implemented along the way. You know from evaluations. First the evaluation is closed and then the 'prior actions' and the'miletones' are implemented. We've learned all this now. [[Noise - protests from the New Democracy Wing]] Then they'll be implemented. Don't give up on that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u51	Be quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u52	So you come down to us, while we have implemented 35% of the agreement, and we have agreed 75%, because we do not close 25%. This 25% you know very well that it has to do with the excessive requirements for measures, which do not justify either Eurostat's data or the Greek economy's return to the surplus of 2.2% of 2016, nor the development of 0.3% of 2016 nor - much more - the forecasts of both the IMF and the Commission for 2.5% and 3% growth in 2017 and 2018. And just because there are these predictions and you know very well that it is the last shell, you know very well that once we get him and him, without any additional burdens on the Greek society, you won't have an argument. What are you gonna say? Elections? Elections? Elections? They'll get tired and the people who listen to you. What are you gonna say? You didn't say it openly today for elections. You whispered it a little. And because you know that you are in a real strategic deadlock, go there in Berlin to create a climate at the expense of the government, when the Greek Government is making the great effort for the benefit of the Greek people. Do you think that will be positively credited by the Greek people? To close, Mr. Mitsotakis, I will say this. I would not speak so hard about sport, if I did not listen yesterday to the spokesman for the New Democracy, shortly after this meeting, which you said is confidential and you do not leak what was said, to state clearly that, "If it does not close on the 20th month, we will table a motion of censure to the Government." And I challenge you, if that is your objective, if your aim was to tell them, 'Stop shutting down and we will throw them down', to put forward a motion of censure. Motion of censure now! [[Applause from the wings of SYRIZA and ANEL]] If you have honesty, testify to a motion of censure! You will see, once again, how you are sick, how united we are and how determined we are to get the country out of the crisis with society upright.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u53	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u54	I am sorry, Mr President of the New Democracy, you have no say. And last Friday I explained - and I hope I do not have to say it next time, because the Prime Minister has started and is coming and there are live discussions - that the regulation on how these debates are being held is very specific. All the things that had happened in the past, either in the extreme or in the recent, had this rule, namely that the Prime Minister closes. Understand? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u55	Will you respond, Mr President? I'm asking why the Prime Minister left. Isn't it a personal matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u56	I'm here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u57	Where are you going? Sit down, boy! Sit down! Sit down!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u58	No, "my boy" to the Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Rochild! Sit down, Mr. Rotschild!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u60	Running's gone. Shame on you! Isn't it a personal matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u61	It's disgraceful! It's disgraceful what you're doing!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down to continue the process. The debate on the current question to the Prime Minister has been concluded. Before entering the other topical questions scheduled for debate, I have the honour of announcing to the House the updates bulletin on Monday 20 February 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Kilkis of New Democracy Mr George Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Culture and Sport on the maintenance and upgrading of the National Stage of Kilkis. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Magnesia of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Panagiotis Iliopoulou to the Minister of Finance about the public's mammoth debts to private individuals. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 473/13-2-2017, the current question by MP II of the New Democracy Republic, Mrs.Akaterini Papakostas - Ironropoulou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the payment of contributions from the free traders. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance about the further gradual removal of capital controls. 3. The Question No 458/7-2-2017 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthakis to the Ministers for Health and Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on works contracts in hospitals and the circumvention of the right to maternity. 4. The Question No 404/30-1-2017 by MP Carditsa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Chrysula Katsavria - Siropoulou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the drafting of a national plan to support cotton farming. 5. The Question No 413/30-1-2017 by MP Arta, New Democracy, George Stylios, to the Minister of Health, concerning the non-payment of cleanliness staff from the General Hospital of Arta. 6. The Question No 399/27-1-2017 by the New Democracy MP, Jason Fotella, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, concerning the delay in the project to extend the Peninsula Canal to Western Achaia. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 365/20-1-2017 by MP Achaias of New Democracy Mr Andreas Katsaniotis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the reopening of transitional sections of the TEI of Western Greece. 8. The question asked by MP I of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr Antoniou Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport about the abuse of the name “Macedonia” in sports organisations. 9. The question by No. 387/24-1-2017, by MP II of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Panagiotarou to the Minister of Finance, on the legislative arrangement for extending approved expenses beyond hospitals. 10. The Question No 389/24-1-2017 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Moraitis to the Minister of Health on the payment of workers cleaners to the services of the General Hospital of Artas. 11. The Question No 408/30-1-2017 by Mr Ioannis Giokas, Member of the Attica Party of Greece, to the Minister of Health, concerning the serious problems of families and workers in special education services. 12. The question by No. 402/27-1-2017, by MEP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Health, concerning the reduction of the cost of diagnostic tests for breast cancer. 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The 313/5-1-2017 topical question by Piraeus II of the Centro Association Mr.Theodoras Megalonikou to the Minister of Health regarding the risk of children and adolescents staying without treatment. Next is the second with number 477/4-2-2017, a top-level question from the Parliamentary Corfu Coalition of the Radical Left, Mr. Fotinis Vakis to the Minister of Tourism, on public tourism education in Corfu. The Minister of Tourism will answer Mr. Elena Koudoura. Here, Mrs. Vakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of this topical question is the structures of public tourism education in Corfu. As you know, by Law 4109/2013, the legal person of public law "Association of Tourism Education and Training" - OTEK - and its powers were transferred to the Ministry of Tourism. The abolition of the OTEC has therefore resulted in the disorganization and dismantling of public tourism education, as far as structures that were subject to the organisation are concerned. In Corfu, OTEK operated a Institute for Vocational Training - IEK - and a professional School - as a boarding school. The IEK was trained for the specialty of cooking and EPAS for the specialties of hotel and food services, cooking and confectionery. Today and after the abolition of professional schools, IKK Tourism operates in Corfu, only with the specialities of the technical tourist and hosting business - a section that started its operation in the educational period 2015-2016 - and the technical cooking art. However, it is no longer possible to train in the specialty of confectionery, although there is a relevant specialty in the IKKs of the Ministry of Tourism, that is, bakery and pastry techniques, etc. In addition, the number of students admitted for the specialty of cooking art - chef fell for the 2016-2017 educational period to twenty-five, from fifty people who were in 2015-2016. The Tour Schools were also subject to the OTEK, including Corfu. Since they have to accept new students since 2010, their need for reopening has become increasingly urgent. I would also like to point out that for Corfu - the majority of whose inhabitants are directly or indirectly involved in the tourism sector - it becomes necessary to run a post-training department, namely training, for those who are already working in tourist professions or for the seasonal unemployed, who, as you can see, have only an empirical knowledge of their work. So on the basis of this, I ask you, Minister, the following: In the context of the Ministry of the Upgrade of Public Tourism Education, do you intend to increase the number of students admitted to the IEC tourist professions Corfu and introduce the specialty of the technical baker - confectionery? Will it also be possible to operate a post-training department in Corfu? Finally, will Corfu Tour School be reopened in the training period 2017-2018? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Vaki. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, MP and IV Vice-President of Parliament, Nikitas Kaklamanis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] When we took over the tourism portfolio in 2015, we received public tourism education - as you quite rightly said - significantly downgraded on the main cause of the abolition of the OTEK Agency in January 2013. As for the tour schools, they have already been suspended since 2010. They were also abolished - and without a study, I would say - and the European Commission with the Touristica parts which they had. In our design, therefore, we immediately integrated the upgrading of our training courses, namely the eight public IEKs of both ASEANs in Rhodes and Crete. We have discussed with all the stakeholders and asked for the proposals of the training centres themselves, as well as the tourism departments of all the parties, but also the Members who, on the initiative of our own, invited us to attend a meeting in order to take part in their proposals. We have also set up a working group on the preparation of all these proposals and with a view to resolving the school's chronological problems with a view to upgrading them, but also to drawing up an integrated and comprehensive proposal for public tourism. It should, however, be stressed, unfortunately, that the commitments of the past have been an obstacle so that in 2016 we cannot achieve our objectives. In particular, these commitments concerned the important limitations, the approvals of recruitment of staff arising from Law 4093/2012 and the continuously reduced number of recruitments of educational staff to meet the needs of all of our educational units and, of course, our Ministry, which was a huge obstacle to the staffing of our training courses, resulting in the inability to increase importers. However, with the new establishment plan of the Ministry, which we are completing these days, we are ensuring teachers' seats in order to staff and strengthen our training in order to be able to support also the increase of importers and the introduction of new skills. We have tried and hoped that we will secure all the funds for the reopening of a tour school in Athens, unfortunately, first in 2017 and the operation of post-training departments. In my dentistry, I'll tell you more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mrs. Vakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u67	With your tolerance, Mr President, for a moment more. Madam President, first of all I would like to thank you very much for your reply. I fully understand that, because of budgetary stability, it is not possible at the present time to increase the positions of teachers and students for IKK tourism as a whole. However, what we are asking - and let me two minutes - is the fairest distribution of the existing number. And I would like to explain that, for each training period, the number of students admitted is in line with the educational posts of the country's IKK. For 2016-2017, the number of eight hourly teachers was predicted for IKK Corfu, which, as you know, is primarily tourist area, while for Rhodes and Heraklion - also traditional tourist areas - were predicted - and rightly - thirteen places of teachers for each IKK. As regards the students to be entered: For IKK Corfu, a total of 50 posts were provided for the training period 2016-2017. For example, for the IKK tourism of Rhodes and Heraklion, the corresponding number was a hundred and twenty - five places for each city, for the Argos 100 places and for the Galaxy sixty. In particular, in 2015-2016 IKT pastry divisions operated three, in Anavysssos, Heraklion and Thessaloniki. For the period 2016-2017, three were also operating in Anavyssos, Heraklion and Rhodes. Therefore, areas in the IECs which are part of a confectionery could be rotated by an educational period. As for the need to increase now the number of students admitted to IEK Corfu, the applications' data also speak for themselves: For the 2015-2016 educational year eighty people applied for the Technical Tourist Units section, which could only be accepted by twenty-five people. For the same department, eighty-five people applied for the educational year 2016-2017. With regard to the technical cooking section, for the educational year 2015-2016 the applications were a hundred sixty-nine for fifty positions and they were reduced to twenty-five positions for the educational year 2016-2017. In fact, for the 2016-2017 educational year, applications reached seventy-two. In other words, only 14% of those who applied for import were finally able to attend the department. It is worth noting that while in 2010 only 10% of the trainees were residents of Corfu, in 2016 this figure was 90%. On the local request made for IKK Corfu, in order to operate the educational year 2017-2018 two classes of cooking art with twenty-five students each, two sections of technical tourists and one section of pastry art, the number of teachers needs to rise to ten of the eight so far. In addition, two administrative staff are needed to enable the afternoon departments to function for the period 2017-2018. In this case students will rise to a hundred and twenty-five persons, as in the other large tourist areas with IKK tourism and in particular ten teachers less than the other two cities, Heraklion and Rhodes. I would like to close here, also with reference to the important position of tourism for the economy of the Ionian islands, but also for the whole territory. For the Ionian Islands region, the nights and direct revenues of tourism are 12% and 11% of the corresponding figures for the country. However, the direct contribution of tourism to local economy GDP reaches 50% compared to 8% at country level. In addition, the contribution of tourism to employment amounts to 17% on the Ionian islands compared with 8.5% on the ground. I would like to add to that the extremely important element of islands, from which the Ionian Islands cannot be excluded. We know that this government considers the Ionian islands to be an island complex and does not ignore the specific obligations of the state resulting from this recognition. We fully understand that it is not possible to increase the overall position of teachers for the country's IKK. However, we are sure that you have the intention, the willingness to move forward in a fairer distribution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, my colleague. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u69	You are absolutely right, my colleague, that there is a huge demand specifically for tourists in the professions, since in 2015 and 2016 we had a historical record of arrivals, excellent initiatives concerning investments that are also going on, I would say, investing. We also advise young people, who do not know what they will do in the future, to deal with tourism, because our country can really offer excellent services, very high quality and great development in the tourist part. Upgrading tourism education for us is a key axis of our national tourism policy. It is our immediate priority for 2017 and we are in constant cooperation with all the relevant ministries. First of all, for the reopening of the tour school we are pleased to announce - as I said before - that the tour school will be reopened in Athens in 2017. We have already set up a five-member scientific committee responsible for the issues of the tour schools of the Ministry of Tourism, and we have finally secured the necessary funds and the necessary educational and administrative staff. As I told you in my prototype, there were commitments that did not allow us to do so. Now we've secured it. We will do our utmost, in cooperation with the relevant ministries again, to reopen the rest of the tour schools, which we have already anticipated in the new one, in the new establishment plan that we are working on and completed. Finally, we are in cooperation with each teacher, but also with the Ministry of Education, and we have taken into account all the suggestions about the qualifications offered, always in the light of the number of teachers. And since we increase these positions with the new establishment plan, there can also be provision for an increase in importers and new specialities. With Corfu - we talked - we couldn't make this increase because it was limited. On the question of post-training, we say that legislation is already being promoted, because that was the problem of funding, by the national part of the Public Investment Programme for the years 2017-2018 and 2019, which had never been foreseen. With regard to the training and retraining of workers, the seasonal unemployed and the unemployed in the tourism sector, with a view to modernising, upgrading the services provided and strengthening competitiveness in the tourism sector, we will do our best to have an integrated proposal for education. That is why we did the working party, which is why we have the committees. It's very important to me that the tour school starts. Unfortunately, EPAs have been abolished. We can't bring them back. The EEK must be strengthened. We must therefore see an integrated proposal so that we can be proud of our tourism education, not something fragmentary, which will last, as over the years, and which will continue to keep tourist education down. In 2017, we will have completed it. It is important for me, because you know very well that we are working together in the ministry, that we have all the proposals that we expect from all the parties, from the tourism sector and the Members of Parliament, because we want to strengthen this integrated proposal that we have and that we are in cooperation with the relevant ministries. Very soon there will be our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, too, Minister. Subsequent to the first question under number 472/13-2-2017 of the Second Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Athens, Neo Democrat I, Nikita Kaklamani, to the Minister of the Interior, on the state of the Area of Mars and on measures to upgrade it. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Nikolaos Toskas. Mr. Kaklamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am surprised with your presence here today, not because you are present - you are one of the regular ministers and I have a picture as President-in-Office - but because you had to be the Minister of the Interior. You are concerned with the field of Mars at one point. The many points included in my question are not in your jurisdiction. That's what I meant, not that you're not entitled to be here. In order not to embarrass my colleague, Mr Lykoudi, I will not speak from breasts, but as I have written them on a paper. So the reason why I tabled this timely question is because, after one report and two written answers I have received, you have been content with the formal wording of the opinions of the Region of Attica and the Municipality of Athens. However, although the Area of Mars belongs to the region, the problem of its abandonment has taken such dimensions, which is a reproach for the centre of the capital. In recent years, unfortunately, as all the residents have acknowledged, this site has been abandoned in its fate both by the relevant region, by the municipality and by the government, and as a result the day after that it has decayed and become an outbreak of violation. In the first phase, Minister, there is no need for many things, not large funds or magical solutions, to give back a human image to the park. The competent bodies are unable - not to say indifferent - to do the self-evident thing so that the park is essentially clean, light and safe for the residents. The abandonment of the park has caused damage to the lighting and drinking systems, drought, total destruction of sports areas, extensive damage to the children's joys, destruction of the buildings found in them. That, for a year and a half now, I ask with repeated questions. And I'm asking for self-evident. So, will the entire space at last be enclosed around the altar of the Field of Mars? Will the entrances close at night, as they do at the National Garden, and that's why the National Garden is protected? Is there going to be a regular police presence? And it's a happy juncture that the municipal police returned to the Municipality of Athens, that you men and women, who don't spare you, should be involved in patrols to take care of the park. In my dentistry, Minister, I will develop the rest. I don't want to take more time. It was about you, the last part, about criminal offense. Since the last answer you sent me so far, people have taken pictures of me, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes. You can't imagine what's inside these photos, which are taken last week. You can't imagine. And some I can't even describe them for reasons of shame. You understand what I mean. It's about child prostitution, where there's a mess of day and night. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr. Kaklamani. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kaklamani, first of all you know that I am replacing the Minister of the Interior as the Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u74	I didn't say you weren't entitled.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u75	I get it. You know more than all of us here the status of the Mars Field. The Minister for the Interior shall be irresponsible for any intervention in the field of the Mars. The area of Mars belongs to the region and the ownership, of course, to the Greek state. With regard to the transfer of space from the region to the Municipality of Athens, which is your first question, the question concerns these two bodies of local government and the public body, of course, which owns ownership. Although I am not entitled to speak on behalf of the region, but because the region has informed us in the light of your question, several recent actions have been taken in terms of improving the situation in the park. I am not one of those who would say that everything is perfect there and there are no unacceptable symptoms or cleanliness problems or other problems in one of these few parks that have been left in our town. But - from what the region has been telling us and from what we see - several interventions have been made lately. I shall refer to what concerns me and affect me. The policing has proceeded from a company hired from the region and we have worked together several times. I am talking about meetings with Mrs Kyprianidou, the Vice-President with whom we have worked together several times in order to improve policing and cooperate with the Greek Police with the security of the region. We've been pushing the policing lately. This park, however, is not fully insured, so that people don't enter. There's a fence, which has been reinforced lately by what I've been informed. But there are still problems and we will be stepping up our efforts in this respect. From there on, the interventions that have been made in the park, which of course I have recorded here, concern the region, and I do not want to go into the countryside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kaklamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u77	Minister, at least you were honest and understood what my introductory remark was about waiting for the Minister of the Interior to be in your place. You're in the end for this. After the other problems have been solved, let us say "now, Mr. Toska, along with ELAS and the Municipality of Athens, protect it". Watch out. I would like to suggest to you today - because the questions are not just about getting answers, but about having the opposition position - to take the initiative - and I would ask you to take this to Mr Balafa, because I think he has the responsibility, I will tell him too - to hold a meeting of the relevant ministries, the district and the Municipality of Athens. First of all, the property regime must be solved, in the sense of essential responsibility, because it typically belongs to the region - it has always belonged to the old prefecture, hence 11 million were spent on genomes to be covered. It was European resources, but it was EUR 11 million. So to be transferred to the Municipality of Athens, as the National Garden was transferred over my days, of course with its dowry must follow the transfer, because maintenance costs are too great. Therefore, the Government or the region must grant the transfer by an amount which covers at least 50% of the costs. Otherwise, nothing will change because the owner's sign will change. So after that happens, then we'll go to the next one. I lived as mayor and had taken the initiative in collaboration with Mr Skouros, who was then prefect of Athens. We had prepared a delivery protocol to the Municipality of Athens and the prefecture would then give money, because there was still no periphery. We went to start the fence. The professional economists in the region who did not want for ecological reasons, but wanted the altar for other things to be cleared up because we went to fence it. Because saving the grove is what I'm telling you. If it is not enclosed around - around the entrances, like the National Garden, that is to say, with the sun opening and with sunset closing, the entire police will put in - which you cannot have three hundred sixty-five days a year - the situation will not change. Don't we all know that in the last few months there have been three deaths there? Aren't you aware that there is an Afghan ghetto in terms of drug trafficking? Don't you know they've been out of the old Green Park? I'm opening a little parentheses for professional ecologists. They had to close the "Green Park" and the summer altar "Aliki" where families went there was no offense because there was light and people until late. Now even on Mavromatian street they go to sleep at the entrance doors of the apartments and the tenants are afraid to enter their homes. If you pass through the Mavromania, you'll see they've got a railing in the entrances. Is it possible for this thing to exist in the center of Athens? I repeat that I am pleased and congratulate you on being honest and not trying to give another picture. I know you're starting to send the DIA teams, but if it's not closed, Minister, what can they do? You can't send all DIA's engines to the altar. In a previous reply, you showed me some results. As far as crime is concerned, you said that it has been reduced by 5%, and regarding the drugs law, or rather lawlessness, there is a 10% reduction. I do not think that this is to be proud of the fact that crime has been reduced in the last six months by 5%. Not even in the day the residents can pass. Especially the students who go to Panhellenic to be sported are now accompanied by the parents, because they are attacked and taken by the cell phone and everything else they have on them. This is what is happening literally in the center of Athens. Please take this initiative - I address you because you are here in front of me - in order to gather the co-legislative ministries, the district and the municipality and to find a solution for the salt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u79	Mr Kaklamani, you first know what action has been taken in the field of policing, especially from the Hive Police Department, which is doing everything that can with too many excursions. Within 2016 alone - to mention a number - 1,457 people have been indicted. For drugs, 243 people were controlled and 40 were brought in. There's been a pretty big and intensive effort from the police and the Hive Police Department in this area. This does not mean that the problems are over and that the security area has been covered. I would point out again - and you have made it quite clear - that it is a clear matter for the local authorities in the region and the municipality of Athens to agree to any transfer or change of use. From there on, I will convey your views to the Minister and we will try and help improve this area which, as we know, is one of the few left in Athens. It is a constant effort and I hope that there will be a better result in the region. However, the region has recently made too many efforts and I urge that we do not reduce these efforts. You didn't cut them down. Anyway, there has been a lot of regional effort to improve the space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Minister. Eleventh question will be discussed under number 457/7-2-2017 in the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Home Affairs on the permanentisation of the five-year obligation Firefighters. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u81	Mr Minister, yesterday there was a very long debate on this matter. You tabled the amendment and voted on it. You have not accepted our amendment. It will be wondered if this question is up-to-date now, since this whole arrangement has been made yesterday. We believe that the question is topical and the timeliness of the matter is linked to the confirmation that there has been from yesterday's conclusion of your proposal for estimates of the government's attitude to firefighters over the entire period, trying to cover up its intentions. We say, of course, that responsibilities belong to the former Government of New Democracy and PASOK, which, in all previous years, abolished organic positions and created subsidiary positions, five-year or contract positions. However, Minister, you also maintained this unacceptable status of the three different industrial relations in the Fire Corps. Yesterday you made four counts of three that were up to today. What did you do the last time, Minister? You have ashes in the eyes of firefighters, you have covered your intentions to maintain the status of this haircut, as we write in the topical question - so we are confirming - you have taken advantage of the decision of the Second-State Board of Crisis of the Crystal Headquarters, which decided which of the five-year-old firefighters meet the requirements for accession to fire personnel and in an art way, as we write, Minister, you have presented it as permanentisation of the five-year obligation firefighters. Again in the timely question, Mr Minister, we say that it seems that the government has no intention of permanentising firefighters for five years, but not even renewing their five-year term, because you have been to renew three years and you say that this will be permanentised without another procedure. These developments are saying that they give rise to huge problems. Already the concern of fire extinguishers is very great. We again insist with the timely question, Minister, if there is indeed any other thought to the government, in addition to yesterday's amendment, which shows the government's intentions, for those who are not in the hands of those who have been judged capable of the Firehouse. What about them? What about the contractors, the seasonals, who are left outside? Until now, Minister, there is no service decision to renew their term of office. That is what we would like your answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, Mr Kattotis, yesterday there was an extensive debate on this issue. The issue of fire extinguishers in all categories you know is a huge distortion, which comes from a distance. The previous governments of the New Democracy and PASOK not only created these distortions for the purpose of collecting party votes, not only did they harm these people, but they also created such situations that bring us into a very difficult position today under the control, budgetary and other conditions that we are currently experiencing. I do not want to mention what has happened over previous governments, because there is continuity in this place and we do not want to give ammunition to other circles that do not want the interests of the country. But we are coming now and we are obliged to give a solution to these people. It may not be the solution that meets 100% of their expectations and what the law provided for, but nothing has been done since the implementation of this law since 2011 and in the years ahead. No presidential decrees had been implemented and nothing had been done. We started the process of implementing the law, but we were faced with difficulties that have to do with the institutions as well. From there on we need a constant effort - and we do so - to ensure these people. We have given them this transitional phase not as temporary, but to meet the current needs until it is clarified or to achieve what they want. From there on we are trying to create normalisation conditions - I say again - in very distorted situations that have arisen. Why is it so far? We all know very well how firefighters entered this House. From time to time they became five-year-olds, short-term contractors became five-year-olds, five-year-olds became officers and then officers. Switching clean. From the previous year they began to enter with full - time tests, but a small number. We must alleviate the situation and the distortions that have been inherited from the previous governments. That is why we had to bring this transitional provision that does not satisfy us at 100%, but nothing could be done now. The proposal and the amendment tabled by the JRC yesterday - we discussed it in yesterday's debate - are good thoughts. I wish we could bring additional staff and use additional staff in civil protection, but unfortunately, it cannot be implemented under the present conditions, and that is why it is not adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u85	Yesterday we referred to our amendment, Mr Minister, you were not here, of course. Since you said that our amendment is not in line with the demands of the five-year and contractors, I must tell you that it is universal performance by these workers, because it only solves their problem. Yours is still complicating it. All the organisations requested yesterday not to accept your amendment because it does not address the problem. I imagine that this message they sent to us was sent to the other parties, regardless of the attitude they took. But, Minister, what do we say in our amendment? We say that the four thousand organic posts that have been abolished must be reconstituted. It is very important, very sensitive and has to do with human lives, with the property of our people. The Fire Corps, this service we all remember and expose it to such situations, be deceived, reduce its staff, or be in uncertainty and insecurity. So the homogenisation of this staff, which you have been saying for years, needs to be done, must go ahead. And this can go hand in hand with the re-establishment of the four thousand organic positions and, of course, with the effort, which we also show in our amendment, to make use of other organic positions of the Ministry of the Interior on civil protection, which is also part of the Firehouse itself. It's part of their activity. So why don't you move on to such a solution that really faces the problem and there will be no such situation, which negatively affects the Fire Corps and its effectiveness? And the more that still exists, the less efficient, worse, with negative results for the people and their property. There's a government responsibility. Apart from the previous governments that shaped this environment, the work anomaly, you maintain it and the amendment you made yesterday. That is why we insist, Minister, that you better study our amendment and all the forms that may exist so that the question of fire extinguishers can be dealt with definitively. But you did not answer today: The rest of the two thousand ninety-three years of service will be done? When will there be a renewal of their term of office? And secondly, will the seasonals be re-entered this year? You did not say that in the protology, and we would like to hear it in your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u87	Mr Katsotis, first of all, my impression is that in the amendment you say that these firefighters will be involved in civil protection, which they do not want, but they wanted to become normal, full-time firefighters. I'm getting past this. I wish we had - and I would be the happiest man in this ministry - the opportunity to take more people, to give more people to civil protection, the municipalities, the regions, where necessary, and to meet the many needs. Because climate change actually imposes requirements, creates needs, which must be met. We are striving for activation and pressure, if you want, of European circles in order to provide funds for these needs. Because, badly lies, the South, the southern regions of Europe are affected by natural disasters, precisely because of the change in climate conditions. But that's what we can do right now. We cannot create more positions, even though it would be the best we could hear. From there on, the homogenisation you've said is a good wish for the Fire Corps. However, it is huge that the distortions created over time, with too many categories of workers, within the Firehouse. I have already stated this in this area that I do not think there is any other public space with so many distortions, such as the Fire Corps, because it was used exactly as a party mechanism. Homogenisation cannot take place in the sense of total homogenisation. As far as seasonal employees are concerned, our planning is to implement the programme as we have been, and in that direction we are moving forward. Finally, with regard to firefighters, who do not belong to the category of yesterday's amendment, about six hundred people, there has been a renewal of the five-year term. It has been signed, the matter has been closed for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u88	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u89	The last few days.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u90	You didn't tell us that, you didn't show it yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u91	I'll give you the document.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, the Member, Mr Ioannis Maniatis, is requesting a short-day absence abroad for the period 20 February to 21 February 2017, on account of his participation, as a representative of the Democratic Association, in the context of Ecofin at the dinner of the Finance Ministers of the Euro-Socialist governments and parties in Brussels. In addition, the MP Georgios Koumoutsakos is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad for the period 19 February to 20 February 2017, due to party obligations. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u93	The House therefore approved the requested authorisations. Next, the thirteenth, with number 382/23-1-2017, is a topical question for the second question by MP I Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, Minister for the Interior, concerning the plan to weaken Macedonia's police and firepower. The Deputy Minister of Interior will answer Mr. Toskas. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we had tabled two questions, 8659, 28-9-2016 and 2238 on 23-12-2016. Both had the following question, if there is a subjugation of the police force in the Metropolitan Unit of Thessaloniki. Following the failure of your reply, which we received in writing, since we considered that it was unsatisfactory and substantiated, we proceeded to this timely question, where you are now asking whether a plan for weakening the police and firepower in the region of Macedonia is being implemented and on what basis do you think it is necessary to proceed with the implementation of this plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Saridis, I would also like to make a comment on ethical issues. Your question is: 'Are you implementing a plan to weaken the Macedonian police and firepower?' Well, now I think we cannot enter such a debate on whether we are implementing a weakening plan, that is, if we sabotage - that is what you say to me in a few words. So please be more careful about your questions. You have reported and asked several questions on this matter. And because, if I'm not mistaken, you're a topographer - correct me - so you know from numbers, I'll refer to numbers and nothing more. General Police Directorate of Thessaloniki: organic force of five thousand seventeen, existing four thousand nine hundred eighty-nine. Western Macedonia: Organic power of a thousand ten hundred and twenty-three, there are thousands of eight hundred and seventy-three. Central Macedonia: Organic power of two thousand hundred and thirty-four, there are two thousand eight hundred forty-five. Eastern Macedonia - Thrace: an organic force of two thousand nine hundred twelve, existing two thousand seven hundred sixty-three. Kavala: organic force four hundred seventeen, existing four hundred fifteen. Drama: organic force four hundred eighty-four, existing four hundred thirty-five. In the case of firefighting, eighty-three permanent general duties are provided for in central Macedonia and thirty-five special duties are provided for, and there are a thousand forty-one permanent general duties, thirty-six special duties and five-sixty-five five firefighting five-years. In the Regional Fire Command of Western Macedonia, there are two hundred five serving two hundred and thirty-six general duties and one hundred and ninety-three firefighters five years of obligation. In eastern Macedonia there are hundreds of fifty ones and there are seventy permanent officials of general duty and a hundred five firefighters of five years' obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u98	Minister, I will try to justify my question in three minutes, which the Rules of Procedure give me to answer, as far as I have to understand, to assess and argue on your position. The truth is, Minister, that I have not understood and yet have not answered: is there a sub-commitment, yes or no? You give me numbers, but answer: is there a hypotension, yes or no? In order for me to understand it, for the citizens to understand it, for the Mayor of Naples to understand it, Mr. Danielides, who has sent paper to the Prime Minister's office yesterday, must also be in your office - here it is and I shall submit it to Parliament's minutes - where he speaks of a lack of policing and an increase in in infractions. The mayor of Naples - Thessaloniki Skeets and other mayors. To be able to understand, Minister, if there's any sub-delegation. You answered question number 2238 on 23-12-2016 and told me: "On the occasion of your question, it is known that as far as the staffing needs these are concerned they are decided by the head of the Greek Police, who can extract or move temporary police officers, special guards, etc., according to needs." I want you to explain to me what the needs were for which they were removed from the metropolitan unit of Thessaloniki to go to the addresses of the north and south Aegean? Who considered these needs to be greater than the needs of central Macedonia? The people who left and got distracted, let's take it as if they were going for a certain period of time. Does the perpetuality of these extracts justify the needs we have? Is that the staff who left and was seconded were the overriding staff of the metropolitan unit of Thessaloniki? The ninety-nine firefighters, Mr. Minister, who came down to Athens to serve the airports, were they also redundant personnel of the Thessaloniki Fire Corps? In the same reply, Minister, you turn to me and tell me that the Lower Transition Council is the only one in the first fortnight of January each year, assessing the service needs, drawing up relevant tables of empty organic positions. Organic positions define us as service needs? So, this meeting last January 2016 had anticipated an increase in refugee flows? He predicted that central Macedonia would be filled with ten or fifteen camps, with refugee camps?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u99	How do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u100	Minister, I'm asking again: is the police force responsible? Secondly, with what criteria and with what procedure can the Minister judge, although there is a problem of subsistence, but not in numbers, which may have come out three, four or five years ago? Now what's going on? Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u101	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u102	I will make another observation about the intensity of your voice. You probably don't understand numbers. And we have to tell the truth. Where were the fifteen camps around Thessaloniki? I don't know how much you saw. Did you not understand the current needs in the northern Aegean with the migratory flows? I repeat: Needs come out based on the calculations of the Chief of Staff of the Greek Police. These needs, of course, come out of the calculations relating to the state of each prefecture. The county of Thessaloniki, for good reasons, has much more police and firefighters than is predicted. From there on, there is the best distribution that can be made and there are movements of police where there are need. We have stressed this on several occasions. If you don't accept the numbers, then I'm sorry. I only speak with numbers and reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u103	Before we go to the next time question to be discussed, I will read the timely questions that will not be discussed today. The second, with number 483/14-2-2017, timely second question by the Independent Member of Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on "the involvement of the State Committees and Justice and the new jury of Andreas Martin from Korydalopoulos", will not be discussed and deferred due to an obstruction (asthenia) of the Deputy Minister of Justice, Mr. Papaggiopoulou. The fourth question under number 482/14-2-2017 of the first cycle of the MP Iraklios of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEGROGlou Vassiliou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the extension of the right to full insurance for workers, the unemployed and the professionals, will not be discussed and deferred due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Mr Petropoulos, because he will be in Crete. The fifth, under number 480/14-2-2017, top-level question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the permits of substitute teachers, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister, Mr. Gavroglou, and on the grounds of a workload. The third, with number 447/6-2-2017, a top-circuit question for the Athens Parliamentary II, Mr Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Finance, on the "meeting of the Prime Minister with representatives of the investment bank Rothschild", will not be discussed and deferred due to a workload of Mr. Juliarakis. The sixth question, under number 452/6-2-2017, is the second question of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn, Ilias Kashiri to the Minister of Finance, concerning the "Tsipras - investment bank Rothschild and the involvement of the Rothschild family in the economic life of Greece", will not be discussed due to a workload of Mr. Juliarakis. The fifth question, under number 345/16-1-2017, of the second question of the Athens MP, Mr. Spyridonos - Adonidos Georgiadis, to the Minister of Finance, on the mismanagement issues in the Greek Defence Systems (ESA), will not be discussed due to a workload of Mr. Tsakalotos. The eighth under number 414/30-1-2017, a topical question by the MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the information about the stage of the process of implementing the investment at the former airport of Greece, will not be discussed due to a workload of Mr. Tsakalotos. The twelfth with number 409/30-1-2017 a timely question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance on the sale of the "NATIONAL SAFALISTIC" will not be discussed due to a workload of Mr. Tsakalotos. Fourteenth, with number 400/27-1-2017, a topical question for Z's Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy of Athens, Mr. Spyridonos Lykoudis, to the Minister of Finance, concerning untreated properties for which the public pays high rents, will also not be discussed due to a workload of Mr. Tsakalotos. The third, with number 479/14-2-2017, first question by Evia MEP - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the burden of marine ecosystems in the Mediterranean with radioactive waste, is not being discussed due to the impediment of Minister Socrates Famelos. And finally, the tenth Question No 348/16-1-2017 by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMMAR Mr.Ioannis Manatis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the resumption of the extension of the management plan for vegetarians that directly jeopardises the viability of the Greek seas, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the honourable Member. Confirmation of the reasons you have heard is given by the Secretary of Government, Mrs Kalogerou. We are now moving on to two questions which will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Evangelos Apostle. The fourth question under number 448/6-2-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Dimitrios Kyriazides, will be discussed now with the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the compensation of potato growers of the Lefkada of Lower Nicholopio in the Prefecture of Drama. Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am coming back to the question of the total absence of state care for those affected by the harmful fungus, for the potatoes farmers in Lower Neropoly. I must once again transfer the indignation, despair and, above all, the desperation of these farmers, who experience government mockery to the greatest extent. As I noted in November and in my question in November, where I did not receive an answer, potato growers are asked to go through without any aid, assistance or support from the central government, the Ministry and ELGA, without income and state aid, with land which is excluded and with proven inability to buy the appropriate varieties. They are called upon to manage a situation for which they are not responsible. Not only that, but the Ministry of Rural Development does not seem to be sensibly aware of the problem, despite the opposing public assurances by the government that the resolution of the problem will be launched by extending the allowances of the ELGA, which - notable - were never given. In view of the above, and because the reply of the State Secretary for Rural Development has not been received, please, Mr Minister, to answer us how and when the farmers affected will be relieved. Will ELGA insurance cover throughout the plant production, as promised by the Ministry, be extended to cover these damages as well? If so, when? In the end, will your ministry find a way to strengthen or compensate our people? When and how, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u105	Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Comrade, I'll tell you again. I understand both your anxiety and the problem that these potato producers do have. However, let me once again tell you that the specific damages, the fungiological risks, are not included in the insurance risks of the ELGA. There is no insurance cover, that is. How can there be insurance cover? If we are doing proportionate studies - because we have been in this process now - for many risks that had not been foreseen so far, to see how through this process in the next phase, I would say, it can be possible for insurance farmers to receive equivalent compensation. But here we have a problem and, as you can see, it can only be dealt with by one procedure. This procedure is the one they know in the rural area. It is the de minimis process, an aid that requires two things: firstly, to draw on a dossier that the damage that exists and, most importantly, that the budgetary conditions of the country allow such aid - even if it is a prerequisite for the approval of the European Commission to be granted. I, so that we can close this issue, will make an effort in this direction. I do not promise that the corresponding de minimis will be guaranteed from state resources. I want to be clear. So he'll be ready and we'll see. Because the problem has already been sorted out. After a study in Benaicio two pathogens have been found, which are resistant to this fungus. But there is one particular thing. We must speak only of potatoes, which will be edible, not of potatoes which can be grown in other regions. This is a very sensitive issue. There's a co-operation with the Benacio Phytopathological Institute. We are going to do everything we can, frankly, confess to you, to make sure that we deal with the damage in particular.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Cryazides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, I am not satisfied with your reply because it is the third year I am returning, unfortunately, on the same subject and, indeed, on a particular area, which you understand very well. We don't have big farmers up there on the leaffield. We must - let me say - pay them where they live. We have two and a half thousand acres right in this quarantine. Small farmers are all, who have twenty, thirty acres, the most fifty. Imagine that most of them own all their property in this space. So three years are - if you want - in a situation not despair but inability to survive. We'll have to understand that. It is not possible that the state does not come to support them. I had to resort to the European Commissioner. What's he answering? And you in your 2015 answer, what do you say? What you said today. "We really understand the problem that exists in the region. Indeed, we are asking for and are preparing to extend the insurance cover from the point of view of ELGA throughout plant production, so that these damages may also be covered. At this point I cannot tell you anything." Since then it has been twenty-six thousand hours, Minister, and we have no answer, no position. On the contrary, what do you say to us, but what does the European Commissioner say to us? It says: 'However, under the first pillar of the CFP a possible measure could be activated by the Member States. What could be triggered is the introduction of financial resources, which could especially be envisaged for these situations, in order to address the whole issue.’ He continues: "Legal tools, therefore, possible under the current legal regime, which could be institutionalised to mitigate the situation, exist. However, these both require an initiative from the competent Greek authorities." You have not taken any such initiative, Minister, to deal with it. Now what are you telling us? You're telling us that budgets don't allow that. But it's a matter of survival. It is no longer a matter of budget in such a region. In fact, the Minister for Development is present here too. I believe that you understand that there should be similar programmes in specific areas. However, no procedure has been initiated. You tell us about Benacio, that they can be found - or found - two types that can be cultivated. You know, a acre to be cultivated under these conditions that you said you wanted two thousand euros. Is that possible? Unless you allow them to sow something else in order - if you like - to produce such a production, I mean something illegal. Minister, we have our compatriots who are experiencing special situations in areas, as you know, especially the frost, and we do not know what will happen this year. We can't leave them abandoned there. I expect a positive response so that they can survive at one point. Indeed, you yourself have said so yourself - it is not possible to compensate for the whole, although you should. It was applied by our side in the two years of New Democracy's governance. There's been one way to get even a compulsive compensation. Why don't you do it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, since they participated in the educational program "Keroes", nineteen students and students and two teachers from the 1st High School of Ano Liosia. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, what the Commissioner has said to you is that there are measures which can be used, a certain level of damage which is mentioned at the Regional Unity level. We are not talking about major damages such as this that can be covered by this measure. Indeed, in this case, the only possibility that there can be is a small, as I have said, de minimis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u111	But there is, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u112	There will be. Twenty, twenty-five days ago, all of Greece's livestock was plunged into snow. There, you realize that there must be help. It is not a matter that we are not concerned with. We're concerned. I repeat. But don't hide. It's the peculiarities, the budgets, that I can't commit...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u113	It's not right now. It's been three years.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u114	...and to tell you that I have consulted with the Minister of Finance that there will be two, three, four million to pay for this aid. We'll make an effort. I can't tell you anything else. Since the ELGA side cannot, because the ELGA works exclusively in the form of compensation, so we cannot go there. So where? Only in this process. There's no one else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u115	For how long? Tell us a while to take a breath.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u116	We have the will and we'll see. If the budgets are allowed above all, we will do something.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u117	Because Mr. Apostle is his man for this, I say an idea now, Minister: so primary surplus we have achieved, for two million now is the issue? Go to Mr. Tsakalotos and tell him "We get two million from the primary surplus, which we have overcovered," he says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u118	So you agree, Mr President, that the primary surplus of using it for social measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u119	According to what the government says, I give you an idea, since the Minister of Finance says so, and because I know that you are his human being. I thought it was a lot of millions. We move on to the ninth with the ninth number 415/31-1-2017 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Complex of PASOK - DIMARKKKKOS KEgeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the deferral of the notices of the Agricultural Development Programme. Mr. Kegeroglu, dear Queen, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, to a question and debate that we had here in Parliament last spring, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development had assured me that the Rural Development Programme will have been fully or largely activated since September 2016. To date, we note that in addition to the programme for young farmers, there is a great delay in the pre-publishment and the issue of calls for the other measures and actions, which you know very well that they are absolutely essential to all people working in the agri-food sector in our country, producers, processing companies, etc. Of course, we may be preparing and being close, and I would first like you to inform us and answer what programming is available for the actions of the Rural Development Programme. For example, this particular measure of interest to many people, 4.2.1, where information is that in your office the project from the relevant departments and you are almost ready to sign it, when will it be signed? I'm just saying that. Of course, you need to see a subject that has arisen - and I do not mention it in the question - with the organic farming and livestock programme, where there is a window that will cause enormous problems, Minister, and it is, once we have a separate programme for young farmers and for old people, the safe date for an old or new date. In the way you made the invitation on January 27th, and because the contracts of companies, according to the Ministry of Finance, can be registered in the DU and after three months, the date is not safe and so there will be virtual - just to say - "baptism" of old and young farmers if you do not take any measures. I want you to tell me if anyone else has identified this problem. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u121	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u122	Colleague, the Agricultural Development Programme 2014-2020 was approved in December 2015, essentially a year ago. To start implementing the Programme, in order not only to start paying for projects from the previous one, but above all to approach the great intersection, I would say, which we have brought to the ground by giving 37% of the Rural Development Programme to regional selfgovernment, some procedures were needed. These procedures were done and indeed were done in such a way that they really facilitated the absorption of the Programme for 2016, but, above all, they enabled us to make payments properly. So in 2016, first year of implementation, we had 657 million public spending, which reached 16% of total absorption. It was one of the best years. As far as the tenders were concerned in 2016, we were indeed committed that by the autumn, at the end of the year, we would have announced one and a half billion measures. We had the first call for the payment and payment of the aid measure for producers in mountainous disadvantaged areas, known as a compensation of EUR 244 million. There was a call for the measure of young farmers to help renew the agricultural population of 241 million public expenditure. More than fifteen thousand farmers have already responded. The relevant applications have been submitted. There was a joint invitation with the Operational Fisheries and Maritime Programme, the well-known Leader Programme, which concerns measures with local actions. It is about 322 million. Of course, notices for the measure of organic farming and livestock total public expenditure of EUR 443 million have already been issued at the beginning of 2017. This measure is very important to have a shift towards organic products. It is true that problems have been identified. We had a meeting the other day to solve them, and we finally came to the conclusion that these minor problems that have been presented will be dealt with. We have, of course, again adopted another measure concerning the training of young farmers. I would tell you that this whole is more than 1.5 billion. Of course, we are immediately planning what you have referred to. It concerns the processing of agricultural products, a measure of 170 million. We already have it in my office, as you really say, but we have a problem there with the information system. It's a matter of one or two days. We'll make it public. We'll publish it. There are issues relating to agri-environment measures planned. I would say to you that what we are particularly interested in is to see how we are going to publish improvement plans, soon, because by looking at the possibility of introducing young farmers, this must definitely be linked to similar improvement plans.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u123	Finish, Minister. The other things you can tell in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u124	I'm done, Mr. President. What I want to tell you is that we've already been in a process. From there on, in my dentistry, I can tell you more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u125	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have what you said last week, in fact, that we will have a statement on important measure 4.2.1 on processing, which can really give an impetus. However, I come back to the point I raised with organic farming and livestock farming to tell you that, according to my information, there are provision for a separate amount of some 33 million for new organic farmers and 160 million for the old. The rules must be clear, so that we do not lead to a rivalry and, of course, if necessary, to increase one or the other line, to do so. However, if we do not have virtual participation, for example in the programme for old organic farmers or young farmers, just because they do not get the money for the sector in question. So I would say that there is a need for an amendment to the invitation and a safe date from which it was previously considered old. Of course, what would be important is that he has grown. It is an old man who has cultivated even one acre or that has even ten animals included in organic farming programmes. As soon as this issue has been raised, I think you will see it. Of course, you told us about absorption in 2016. Look, absorption in 2016 without a new project is not absorption. This concerns payments of old debts and liabilities. Let's get this straight. The new programme has only been put forward for young farmers. I hope that there will be quick results for it to be completed. I don't know if the final results have been published and how they are progressing. Well, there's a delay. You recognized her, too. We need to be more active and above all to see what those points can, because of bureaucracy or for any other reason, lead back the programme, for which the previous government has worked, and of course you have also put your touches on it. I do not know if it was drums or strangles and we have been late for a year for approval, but in any case we now have it in our hands as a country and it is a key area that we hope will help with recovery. Let's not slow it down. And of course, we also have a negative environment to deal with the tax and insurance situation of farmers - let us not talk about it today, because it is a big chapter - but what I would like you to see, and in fact, is the new problem that has arisen with the suspension of forest maps. Look at the problem with the suspension of forest maps, because it can develop into a huge problem both for aid to farmers themselves and for many others. Let's face it while it's early. I think that a debate in the Committee on Production and Trade on this matter would be useful in particular. It would also help the Ministry of Rural Development, but the responsibility I think is the Ministry of the Environment, so that they can take action to deal with the problems. Today, I have seen a newspaper which has a headline: 'The forest maps are cutting off'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u127	All right, Mr. Kegeroglu, let's not open this. It is a huge issue, let us not blame it on a timely question. Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u128	First of all, I am pleased to say that you said that we did something about the Rural Development Programme too. That's good. I would also like to say that we are trying to deal with the new programme in a specific way with the aim of helping the rural area. That is why I told you that it was our decision to give 37.5% -38% of the programme in the region, because we do want to work with them to catch, as we say, the money place. There is already another intervention. We have tried to ensure that we do not make available all the money, because there are problems which arise, such as the one concerning organic farming and livestock farming. We'll solve it. But even if we cannot solve it, we have resources and they are not wrong. There is no way that a proper distribution will not take place. We must all really help by having, I would say, and a promise in the light of the mid-term review that we will be given greater flexibility in transferring funds from one measure to another. It is very important and it is good, especially when you want to implement a specific policy. We'll find them. We have a route ahead of us. I believe that we will be able to use resources as efficiently as possible. As far as the big issue you raised on forest maps is concerned, I would stress that farmers will not be charged with losing any area from the choices they already have as rights or, of course, there will be no impact on the other issue that you raise and which is related to ownership. It is a process which is under way at the level of government's consultation. We'll have before us to call it a glorious field.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Minister. It is simply a matter of forest maps not only for farmers, it concerns hundreds of thousands of compatriots. Next is the seventh under number 451/6-2-2017 topical question by MP II Athens of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdus to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on parental equality and the conscientiousness of children. Mr. Contonis will answer. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on 24 June 2016 I contacted Mr. Paradigopoulos and asked him whether he was going to do something about a matter that is actually acquired - not in legal provisions, but in implementation - tragic consequences and tragic proportions for parents, fathers. Then there was an attempt to revise Family Law. We had exchanged arguments with Mr. Paradise. He had accepted the absolute seriousness of the matter and told me that he would try to bring it as soon as possible. I asked him, because this is simpler than the thorny subject of the change of family law, to isolate the arrangements for the conspiracy of children and bring them to Parliament. He told me that he doesn't want to do this, but he would soon bring in the draft law. I was back on 17 October, Mr President - you were in the Chair - and he told me that he would bring the arrangements here in December. It didn't happen, it was reshaped. You came and I read in the papers about the prospect of change, but I didn't see that change. So I ask you now if you will move on. I think you have no reason - you are also a lawyer - not to make this specific legislative intervention, even though we have a positive view of what you could do in this respect and do not reflect on this optimism from the fact that you have given us two reasons to think that there is a problem with you in matters of impartiality. The first was on the question of parties' economics, which, when you said 'and now on the matter of justice', was like saying 'and now to me'. I have made a relevant criticism to you at that time. The second was related to the pricing of medicines and the "NOVARTIS", where it is clear that you do not know and whether your pricing policy was compared to the policy we conducted in 2010, 2011, 2012, your arguments against you are overwhelming. This next week you will see that I will bring them to the House and with great intensity. Please, therefore, - and it is my last sentence - give us your intentions on the subject of conscientiousness and if you can hold a short vote on the relevant legislative initiative in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u131	Mr. Contonis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u132	Mr President, I shall refer exclusively to the very serious issue raised by my colleague. I'm going to override the other reports. It is not at present and I do not think, by the way, that, as it happened, we could throw out words about unrelated issues. What I said about other issues, I mean them. Whenever you wish, I am at your disposal to discuss both the 'NOVARTIS' and the parties' finances. As regards the issue you have raised, I would like to say before I reply that I am very disappointed at the pace at which the legislators are moving. There is a long delay - not all - in a number of cases - in the performance of the project requested. There are continuous extensions to their work. As serious as matters are, these must at some point be handled and answered. In this sense, I would like to tell you that Mr Paradropoulos had rightly not answered you on the substance of the matter, because he did not have the text of the Committee on Legal Affairs, as I have. Mr President, I will tell you something more today, because I have a different approach to this matter. First of all, I want to make it clear that there are two distinct legal concepts in the Civil Code, which are referred to in Articles 1510, parental care and 1518, diligence. Parental care is exercised by both parents and includes the right to representation, the right to the management of property, the child and custody. When there is a problem and we have a divorce, diligence can only be exercised by one of the two spouses, because it is precisely the case, such as the place of residence of the child, such as his education and education, such as his rearing, such as the supervision that he has to have since two people decide to separate. In return, the law and the Civil Code give the husband or wife, the one alienating from diligence, the right to communication. Such matters are regulated by the spouses either consensually in the consensual divorce procedure or by a judicial decision when there is a dispute. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I need some time, Mr. President. Therefore, I think it is clear here that there can be no conscientiousness on individual diligence issues. Instead, parental care and after divorce as to the first two arms I mentioned to you, both spouses continue to practice it together. I would like to point out to you that most of the time - it is overwhelming - neither of the spouses nor the other spouses are opposed to parental care alone. Dispute or consensus often, as we have too many consensual divorces, is exhausted in regulating diligence and communication. So what you said about tragic proportions is not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u133	Isn't that so?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u134	No, it is not because under the code, based on the provisions of family law, there is a balance between all these situations, which arise through a decision by two people to separate. Whether they divide up consensually and form the custody field themselves, that is to say, agree that the husband will also exercise custody, or in the event of dispute the court decides. In order not to abuse, I would like to say one last thing to keep in mind that in the past years there has been a judicial practice, diligence in the cases of divorces in disputes involving mothers. But, Mr President, the case-law of the last ten years, not only in the first instances, but also in the Ice Bay, has come to a different approach: if we exclude the period of infancy - where the child really needs his mother more and it is more appropriate to exercise custody - the Greek courts give custody to the father. In fact, I'm telling you again that it's not just judgments of the primary courts or courts of appeals, but it's also the Ice Bay. There is a large number of such decisions. If anything needs to be done, Mr President, I will come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u135	You have the dentistry. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building, twenty-two students and students and two educational attendants from the 3rd Trikalon School. Welcome to the House. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u136	As far as I am concerned, Mr Minister, the drugs, because you said a phrase, very gladly next week, to bring it here. We have taken initiatives as a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u137	I don't think there's a reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u138	Let go, let go. But I told you - you are the Minister of Justice - because of some of your statements that showed that you do not have the matter. That's good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u139	That's what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u140	I'm talking. You don't talk. Don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u141	Don't blame the very serious question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u142	Today I had a timely question to the Prime Minister who did not come for a second time, and last week he said things that were particularly unfounded, not to say any other word. However, we have come here today on another issue and something positive may arise, although I am curious about your position, not when you say about the legislative committees - I have experience, so it is often, not always, but sometimes the problems that are created during the work that they do are many - but on the subject. I repeat my question to Mr Paradise and to you: Can you remove from the rest of the effort of the Preparatory Committee and bring to your draft law a matter of special regulation? That is the first question. Secondly, you raised issues which, if one of those who suffer from the problem listened to, would be uneasy, because I did not speak to you about the Civil Code. I tried to tell you that the legal arrangements had no problem. Application has a problem. You are telling me about the application of the kindergarten distinction and later on. At infancy these problems are created by decisions, not by the provision. Another interpretation would not lead to these problems. It's tragic. Children are being taken advantage of to create problems at another level regarding interpersonal relationships between a disintegrated marriage partnership and children pay for it, infants. From the whole theory, throughout the world - both in the European Union and in the United States - it is clear that children, especially infancy, need both parents. It must be evenly upbringing them. This is probably not a given, and you may be seeing it in another way. I supported my hope in your legal experience. Because we have too many such cases all lawyers know that here there is a need for a solution. The need for a solution does not dictate that we should make a general reference to a regulation, no matter how the judge can interpret it. The law has to be defined by its clarity and by interpretation, so that it leaves no room for mistakes. Because I have been working on this for years, people are in contact with me who are suffering now that we are both talking. That is why I said that there is a need to separate this issue from the whole matter. Nor do I want to present to you the scientific texts I have here. You know it. Even if you don't know them, your department has them and they'll supply them to you, the committee has them. I didn't come to make the smart guy here, Mr. Contony. I came to tell you if we could help find a solution. If you wish - and I conclude with this - you can bring the matter to a next meeting of the Standing Committee on your own initiative in order to have a debate on the basis of the committee's information. I would say that it is more trying to bring these two regulations together in your next draft law, and if the debate in the Standing Commission creates you the assurance that my point of view is fair, you should keep it in law. If it turns out you're right, then remove it. However, I can assure you that I am absolutely right about what I say and you have the legal capacity to understand it and to resolve it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u143	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u144	Mr President, I am pleased that we need to speak legally.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u145	Yes, but we should understand the non-legislative ones as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u146	I will say it in such a way, Mr President, that everyone will understand it. After all, legal science, when it comes to substance and in depth, is one of the most understandable. Mr. Comrade, be careful. As I have said, diligence includes certain operational rights. One of them is the right of one of the two parents to have the child with him and to live with him. Tell me, how can this thing be broken up with what you say "consciousness"? Mr President, 'consistency', in my opinion, and not only the provisions of the code but also the reality, cannot be achieved. It is for this reason that the legislator partially balances the diligence that gives one parent - or, I say, parents agree to have it - with the right to communication, precisely because he does not want the child to be deprived of the presence of the other spouse or wife. Watch out. We are now entering a place where, as far as we've been fighting lawyers, we've seen it against coron. These are the severe disputes between spouses on other issues, which do not concern children, and are extinct in disputes about custody, parental care and so on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u147	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u148	As far as parental care is concerned, I would once again say that parental care is exercised jointly, unless a court decides otherwise. However, with regard to diligence, diligence is resolved by an application for interim measures and by an action, in accordance with the specific procedure which is relatively quickly completed. If, Mr President, there are such irresponsible parents who, for example, because of assets and acquisitions, are against children, then it is one reason for the court to intervene and remove both diligence from both of them. There are cases like this. This is judged by the judges. Or a judge may judge whether a husband treats a child as a siege ram in order to obtain financial compensation or anything else in relation to the husband with whom he has divorced. This all comes into the judgement of the courts. I am telling you again that the courts with great attention to the issues of the management of children and their future and their lives decide in a way that is responsible and, I would say, very seriously. I told you that case-law, as has been shaped in recent years, has been in the opposite direction. It has been shaped in the direction that the child may also take the father and there are such examples. You keep in mind that the child, since growing up and having an objective picture of the real world, has the right of the judge to call and ask for his opinion with which parent of the two wants to stay. So it's not as tragic as you mentioned it. Unfortunately, tragically they are made by irresponsible husbands who break up in this way and do not preside over the interests of their children. I'm afraid so. What you told me, I'm not going to do it. I'll see the views of the Legislative Committee. You realised that my view is not positive towards changing the provisions of the Civil Code. But first I'll see the views of the Committee on Legal Affairs and then I'll be placed. I have no intention of distractingly bringing in provisions for a piece of the Civil Code, which is one of the strongest, most modern and best-written.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u149	When's he coming?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u150	I hope that the work of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights will be completed. An extension has been given at least until March, I think, and hopefully I have a plan. I am telling you again, however, that these provisions of the Civil Code on Family Law, I think, completely outweigh a problem of past court years, which unilaterally gave mother custody. This has in practice been lifted and overturned. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u151	We have reached the last but not last in terms of interest, a timely question, which concerns many thousands of Greeks. I am pleased that a serious colleague will present it and that a new Minister will answer it. Minister, because, as far as I'm concerned, you are more technocratic and less political, I hope your answers will be circus and clear. It is the 15th under number 454/7-2-2017 topical question by the Independent MP from Athens Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister of Economy and Development Mr. Municipality of Papadimitri, on the urgent need to regulate housing loans in a Swiss franc. Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr President, as well as the Minister for his presence. This is a very well-known subject. At the time of amnesia, the banks recommended that borrowers take the loans into a Swiss franc. Of course, the Swiss franc was inexistent, it was only a book entry, and the banks gained from the conversion of currencies, both in disbursement of capital and in the collection of instalments. However, no care has been taken to provide for borrowers for exchange rate and exchange rate risks. Then he helped get a loan in Swiss francs. But today, with the change in the rate - which has almost equalised 1 francs to 1 euro - the response is impossible, unjust and particularly burdensome, because people are paying as much as they can to meet the crisis conditions, but unfortunately they cannot respond to the reduction of capital, because the capital is kept unforgettable without knowing the amount that will end up. The European Union has taken this into account and introduced Directive 2014/17, which we have recently done with Greek internal legislation with No 4438. Unfortunately, Minister - and I have to say this - the Ministry of Development has supported, on a number of occasions, two or three years after the problem has arisen - and there are too many Members' questions and even the topical ones - that this directive did not allow retroactive effect. Because the directive, as introduced in the legislation, also obliges creditors to notify, but also to be included in contracts, on the basis of which, if the exchange rate is more than 20%, it entitles the borrower to decide on the currency on the basis of which the loan will be repaid and no longer take over the exchange rate risk or, in any case, has been informed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Greece didn't do that. The Ministry of Development with a bad - let me say - interpreted accepted the non-retroactive application of the directive. It did not, however, take into account the fact that the directive applies to the future. The European Union has not received any provision for the past, but domestic legislation can at any time. Mrs Papanatsiou in the debate in the House, and after my own pressure she said that we will soon have to regulate these issues, which are very difficult for the borrowers. We have the evaluation in front of us. If, therefore, the evaluation is closed without regulating the issue of loans in a Swiss franc, people are being brought to ruin. I will explain this in particular in my dentistry. I would therefore ask that, Mr President, a regulation on the exchange rate be adopted in time too. Judicial decisions have said a good deal - which we all know - let the Ministry also know - that, based on the principle of justice, the rate of disbursement of the loan should be the rate of payment, because the banks have taken their money, they have already won by converting the currencies. Second matter. If that is not possible, the second proposal I make with my question is to set a maximum rate of EUR 1/1,20 with a Swiss franc so that the rules of the game are clear. If I do not hear the argument that the banks will be destroyed, I will propose either a long-term amortisation of any uncertainties - if they arise and, in my opinion, do not arise - because they have been collected by the conversion of currencies - or, in any event, to include this in the concept of deferral of tax obligations - which we are discussing in the assessment - and to close this issue. Otherwise, seventy thousand families will be blooded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u153	In view of the interest of the subject, I have allowed the honourable Member to speak a little longer. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Karras, as you know, the government as a whole and our Ministry have introduced a number of measures on red loans, which have yielded some fruit, as, on the basis of the Bank of Greece's report, in 2016, their growth rate has been significantly reduced. Of course, we are also expecting a further reduction following the growth of the economy. A special category is, as you mentioned, housing loans which have been entered into with a Swiss currency clause, because, due to the exchange rate change, many borrowers have been in a particularly adverse position since they have found their debts to be increased to a very large extent. The European Union directive to which you refer, 2014/17, actually enables borrowers below, as you have also said in a foreign currency, where there is a fluctuation of more than 20% between the total amount due and the amount in force when the contract is concluded, to be converted into an alternative currency. From the directive itself, as you also said, there is no room for regulation with retroactive effect to take over the loan contracts already concluded. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Economy, and in particular the General Secretariat of Trade and Consumer Protection, are closely following judicial decisions on this issue. We know that individual borrowers and borrowers who have filed complaints have been entitled to justice at first instance. However, as you know, we can legislate on the basis of court rulings, which are not based on specific and individual cases of the case in question, but on the basis of actions by borrowers, who collectively bring actions. In these cases, the reasoning of the decisions is based on facts covering a large number of borrowers. Judicial judgments state, as we have seen so far, that the conduct of the banks concerned a large number of borrowers. So we are monitoring the legal developments in this respect and we expect the decisions which will justify borrowers irrevocably and finally on the basis of their group actions, decisions which have already been discussed and pending in the second instance as soon as they are published in application of them. We will then impose specific behaviours on credit institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, the Minister's position is interesting. I will, however, note a few points of correspondence. Indeed, many, whether by individual or collective actions, appeal. The result of the case is, in principle, only those parties. Whether to come to legislate or to adopt a decision under consumer protection legislation is in line with another point. It should be accepted by the state, so that the state act can be legal, that the borrower who went to get a small house is also an investor in the sense that he won the conversion of currencies. But he's not an investor. He never thought about speculation at this point. He thought of the cheapest interest rate at that time. There is also a second issue, which is urgent and very important, and that is why I have tabled the timely question, because there have been too many of my best colleagues before me and the President has followed it in a series of questions. What's bothering me? I am concerned that the borrower in a Swiss franc cannot appeal to Katseli Law, Law No.3869, and seek protection for his home, for this reason: Katseli Law first requires acceptance of the amount of the debt, so it is a confession within the court and after the arrangement. Therefore, since the issue of exchange rate will not have been settled, it does not, but it is charged, it is charged. Every day, then, we go to burdens without being solved. Another matter. Within a few minutes, Minister, and I would ask you to stand up to this, they will work - they are already authorised by the Bank of Greece - to acquire and manage housing - consumer loans and it is easy for the banks to give packages to a Swiss franc. My question and anguish is: This transfer or management that will always be provided with unrealised capital and due due interest or margin of banks. However, since the conversion, which will be due and fair, will have already doubled the capital. There's no good money left, and it's gonna pay, you know, two times the borrower. My proposal is this, and I say it with all kinds of good faith. There is no possibility of an out-of-court settlement, because, from what we learn in evaluation with the institutions, there is only a matter of extrajudicial conciliation on business or business loans. It is therefore a one-way legal protection. The borrower in a Swiss franc must go twice to court, once he will go to court to determine his parity and when he has finalised - what you said, Minister - after three or five years, to be able to appeal to the Katselis law, so he will have lost his home - I tell you with every certainty - or he will have lost his life still with such dangers. You have the power. Look it up with the banks, they haven't been damaged. Set it up now. The European Union directive does not prohibit internal legislation from having retroactive effect. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Let me remind you of something else. There's no constitutional emblem. Because, having accepted that the courts can set the rate of repayment, why can't Parliament or legislation? Finally, I say this: we will find this situation in the judiciary to wait for the judgements of the courts. I never make provision for a second-degree court ruling. Excuse me an experience of decades, Minister. I personally never make provision for a second-degree court ruling. We will then say "you know, Mr. borrower, you owed a hundred, now you owe a hundred fifty", but also to recognise him an equal rate within the interactive time, which he cannot meet today's conditions, he burdens his loan and is red and he appears to pay more than he really has to pay. I would therefore ask you, in good faith, to sit down and find the right legislative solution. There is possibility, there is European legislation. Cyprus has regulated it, if you want me to refer to it, and other countries have regulated it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u157	Finish it, Mr. Carras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u158	Concentrate the legislation, torture it, see what's best for the country. We don't have time, Minister. If the review closes, we're done. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u159	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr President. What I want to answer is that borrowers who have borrowed in foreign currencies, if they are natural persons - and this housing loan was to finance the first home market - can benefit from the favourable provisions of the Katseli Act, 3869, and seek legal settlement of their debt. But they must be natural persons. You referred to companies in the management of red loans or housing loans. These companies can do nothing different than the banks. That's in the bill. Finally, you referred to the extrajudicial mechanism, which is, of course, only business. If the loan had been made by risk capital, of course it can also enter the extrajudicial mechanism. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, if I may only have one word with your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u164	Be careful, the Kaceli Act says for acceptance of the amount due. It does not allow the currencies to be converted previously. It's gonna be a trap. Watch out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u165	You were clear about the Katseli law. The Minister will see. Apparently, he's got this kind of information that was different from his viewpoint from the Ministry's services. In conclusion, however, I believe that the Minister, who has heard from you, will take care of them. Otherwise, you can bring a proposal for a law, which I think many colleagues will endorse. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. I wish you a good weekend and, Minister, bring good news until Monday. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-02-17-S1-commons.u166	With the consent of the House at 14.10 p.m., the sitting on Monday, February 20, 2017, at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
