ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Ladies and gentlemen, at this moment in our first meeting, a few hours after his death, I would like, as President-in-Office, to interpret the feelings of all of us, to say that we are happy to say goodbye to Constantine Mitsotakis, one of the great protagonists of the country's political life, a politician who has been sealed with his strong presence by the Greek Parliament and political developments for decades. Goodbye, President! I would also like to say that with a special agenda, a political memorial will be set in the memory of the late Prime Minister Constantine Mitsotakis. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS We begin with our second question with number 866/22-5-2017, the first question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the New Democracy, Mrs. Catherine Papakostas - Ironropoulou to the Minister of Health, concerning the inclusion of innovative and orphan drugs in the Greek System of Compensation. The Minister will answer Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to ask you not to charge my time the little report I would like to make on the death of Constantine Mitsotakis. There was, as you said, a political personality that sealed - that is the right verb - for many decades the political history of our country. His action created strong feelings of urbi et orbi and also sealed a very long and critical political period of the country. "The mentality is a small thing that makes a difference," said Churchill, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The beggar was just that. I express my condolences to the family. Allow me now, Mr President, in my time, to raise a very serious issue, such as the inclusion of innovative and orphan drugs in the Greek System of Compensation. I have to tell the Bureau that my topical and urgent question was tabled long before the regulation came into force. In fact, it is regulated by Article 89 of Law 4472/2017 of the issue, namely, that we are discussing here today, the launch of innovative medicines in the Greek System of Compensation. That is where we need to see how, when the Member brings up some of these issues in their time, they should be discussed, in order to prevent the legalisation of matters. Because here, for example, I would like to say this to the Minister: the government majority has now legislated on a matter that is really crucial and for which he really needed to legislate. That's where we agree. The question is this: If we had asked it under the procedure of the current questions or within the Committee on Social Affairs, for example, we could have put the questions, which I would like to ask after the legislature, and in particular Article 89, in relation to, for example, whether the procedure under Article 89 of the Act replaces the obligation to set up a Greek health technology assessment mechanism. So the way you legislated is forbidden in this case, to get into the process of creating a Greek evaluation mechanism? That is the first question. The second question is this: And, be careful, one theme raises a new problem. What's that? The significant delay I see in the approval of medicines and their entry into the Greek System of Compensation, in particular, for patients who are long- suffering or with diseases, who are rarely ill because of their dependent relationship with other countries of the European Union. For the time to which the competent bodies calculate is presumed to be between two and four years. The delay is too long. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The last thing I want to say - and I am closing down with that, Mr President - is that today there is a positive list, where the drugs are generally listed. Is there a risk - and we should have spoken about this before - that, for example, medicines that are currently compensated by the EEAS and by the social security institutions to come out of this positive list? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u4	Mrs Papacostas, I think this is a timely question, because indeed the issue of medicines, pharmaceuticals and criteria, with which the public system compensates for the new, particularly expensive and innovative drugs, is a very important political issue. First of all, we have a current model of functioning for this system, which, in our view, is problematic. The intervention, which took place at the Memorandum of Understanding, after a period of complete immunity, of the so-called 'part' of the previous decade, which blew the drug expenditure and from 0.9% of GDP, was followed by an intervention that was absolutely isotopic and horizontal, with a focus mainly on lowering the prices of generic drugs. This past six-year pharmaceutical policy has created multiple market distortions and we know it. There is a tendency to withdraw cheap but effective medicines and a tendency to replace them with a new on-board much more expensive. Clearly we have said that by closing the evaluation we, as a coordinate state, must again put the framework of this policy and the architecture of pharmaceutical policy again for discussion with lenders. There, obviously, I think that political dialogue will also be useful, possibly also the political consensus that can emerge through this House. This regulation, which has been passed in the recent law, in the multi-project, under Article 89, was a regulation agreed with lenders, so that we can be absolutely honest and accurate. What he has done is he has taken a very unclear one and - let me say - a perforated criterion, which has existed so far and strengthened it a little more. In other words, we now say that in order to compensate for a drug and to join the positive compensation list, it will go through two filters: one is the external filter with reference to countries in Europe that compensate it. Here the regulation says that at least nine countries in Europe must be compensated for in two-thirds of them, namely six, and half of them having a reliable HTA system, namely three of them. That is what we consider to be the first external filter. Then a second filter is for the first time the integration of HTA criteria. And I reply to that in your question that, obviously, we are not in favour of that, even if we consider that we have taken a small step with the previous law. Now, firstly, the legalisation of an ETA committee in the country is pending, and secondly, the creation of an evaluation body for health technologies and particularly pharmaceutical innovation, which we have the Memorandum of Obligation to complete by the end of the year. So the direction is, from now on, limiting external criteria and strengthening objectively scientific criteria, which assess and prescribe a medicine to compensate for whether it covers non-existent treatments today, i.e. if it responds to uncovered medical needs, if it has a therapeutic added value, if it is based on reliable clinical data and, also, whether it has a positive cost-effectiveness ratio. These are the four main criteria, which we have legislated on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u5	Minister, in your dentistry, the rest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, I am ending with this. We've done enough scripts, and we've run the medications that were approved in the past few years. The picture, which has been projected by some of the industry, that with the introduction of these criteria it will be delayed, that there will be difficulty in accessing pharmaceutical innovation, that there will be huge delays in the approval of medicines in the country, that we will have Grexit from the medicines, as has been said and written in a very extreme way in some newspapers, or that we will have pharmaceutical poorness of the Greek people, it has nothing to do with reality. We believe that, with these criteria, it is ensured that medicines, which also serious countries in Europe, are compensated, are effective, have a truly measurable clinical benefit for patients and improve their quality of life, can be compensated. Of course, there is also a question of negotiating their prices, to which I shall refer in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, thirty-two students and students and five educational attendants from the Municipal School of Upper Mitrus Serres. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Also, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, thirty-five students and students and a professor from the Law School of the National Kapodistrian University of Athens. The House welcomes them. Dear friends, we welcome you to the Greek Parliament. I would like to tell you that at this time you are monitoring the parliamentary control procedure. Colleagues from various parties ask Ministers on matters of interest and the Minister responsible for these matters answers their question. The current question of the New Democracy MP, Mr Papakostas, is under way. She's finished her prototype. He has first been answered by the Minister of Health, Mr. Xanthos. It's about drugs. It follows Mrs Papacosta's second language, so that the Minister may be seconded. My colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. However, my question, Minister, did not include this kind of criticism, which you described as insurmountable. To distinguish them, my question is specific on a specific basis and I expect concrete answers. So what's written or called, it's none of my business. I'm saying that to make a distinction. I asked you specific questions and, Mr President, allow me to add, on the basis of the President-in-Office's prototype and the following questions, which were raised after your first answer: The first is that it is reassuring, of course, that the countries of the European Union and which have the mechanism for evaluating health technologies will in any case compensate us. But at the same time, it is alarming - or I will not say alarming - because I do not want to create concern, away from me such behaviour - or rather problematic the fact that there are different medical needs, Mr President. Each country has different medical needs. So at the general principle in the umbrella, namely, of the European Union, by saying now - the Ministry of Health in our country - that these will be covered, even though we do not have a Greek mechanism for assessing health technologies and we will be covered by Europe, the answer is: 'We have different medical needs'. For example, in the Mediterranean anemia that was rightly excluded, there are other cases of this type, where we have different medical needs, which the patients will be asked to deal with, and which will be found beforehand if we do not regulate it here. So one parameter is the different medical needs. The second parameter is what will happen in those medicines where there is no generic drug. It's a second void. It's a second question. Because it's good if there's generics. But if there are no, what happens in this case? Again, patients will be called upon to face the weight of the legislative gap in the arrangement that has already come. And here, we must quickly find an answer which gives a solution to the problem for the benefit of the patients. The third thing I want to say is that as you know at one time - not to always tell you - and since I had an opportunity to do a term of about one year in the Ministry of Health, you find that expensive is cheap. And expensive is cheap, in this sense. It should not prevail in the decisions of the political leadership at all times in the sense of costs as a single criterion and as a single condition. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. For example, weight should be given to the benefits that an innovative medicine may have in the medium to long term, even if it is more expensive than another. Finally, I should like to say, Mr President, that I will close, the meaning and philosophy of my question is whether we succeed with legislation, that all citizens have access to it, and that is how we show respect for the patient and his agony, whether he is well or improve the quality of his life. My last question is, if you have finally started or intend to initiate a procedure for creating a Greek health assessment mechanism and if so, how long do you think this will be possible? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Papakosta. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u10	In the latter I will answer, so that it can be quite clear. I think I've answered it in my prototype. We have now taken the first step in this law. We put in HTA criteria. What we are talking about at the moment - and we have also asked for technical support from the WHO to build the HTA committee - is the precursor's shape that will make the evaluation of pharmaceutical innovation. I believe that in June we will have the regulation ready, so that we can legislate. And we have an obligation by the end of the year to have legislated the full framework for the functioning of this body, according to the standards of the European health assessment bodies. This will, in any case, go hand in hand and we think that it will be a major reform of the pharmaceutical policy, which has the logic of structural measures rather than horizontal interventions. The question of the cost of medical care and how this can be combined with the right of citizens to have access, particularly to expensive medicines, is a matter which is not just a concern for our country but for the whole world. It concerns Europe and the meetings of health ministers, because these costs are increasing. On average, it is considered that pharmaceutical innovation increases around 7.5-10% a year public spending on medicinal products around the world and the current system has been confessed by everyone to be unsustainable. To tackle this, three levels need intervention: one is to have reliable control mechanisms such as HTA. The second is to have reliable prescription control mechanisms, i.e. with therapeutic protocols and others that you know. And there is a systematic effort at this time to integrate more protocols and, as we say, not to allow them to be circumvented. The third and most important is that there should be mechanisms for negotiating accessible and sustainable prices for health systems. That's where a great deal of effort is being made. We have activated the EEAS Negotiating Committee, which has a positive conclusion, which will be approved by the EEAS Management Board on hepatitis C medicines in these days. I think that when we are ready, we will announce its results and that will be very important. We have also shielded the functioning of this committee by the previous law. You know very well that we have taken as transnational cooperation, coordination and partnership initiatives with other countries in particular in the European South. Recently in Malta there has been a declaration by six countries. Greece, Cyprus, Italy, Malta, Spain and Portugal. Another three countries of Europe have made use of this agreement. Ireland, Romania and Slovakia. This is how we try to strengthen the negotiating power of countries with small markets to large companies and thus achieve prices sustainable for health systems, ensuring what you have rightly stressed, the right of patients to have access to pharmaceutical innovation and new effective medicines, which are circulated. As far as orphan drugs are concerned, it is a very special issue. It was excluded, as you have seen, from the outside filter. So far IFET has been making a very big effort, and the majority of cases meet the needs. There is no difficulty in introducing and accessing patients with chronic diseases to medicines which are circulating and compensated in other countries of Europe. We are not one of the last countries, Mrs Papakostas, to compensate for these drugs. I would say that for Greece's financial data, we are a country that is very sensitive and very prepared to meet the needs of the citizens. That is what we will continue to do in the next period.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministers of Finance, Home Affairs, National Defence, Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Administrative Reconstruction, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, the Deputy Minister of Interior and the Deputy Minister of Finance, tabled a draft law entitled ‘Adapting Greek legislation to the provisions of Directive (EU) 2015/2376 and other provisions’. The above draft law has been classified by the Government as urgent. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Also, the Ministers for Rural Development and Food, Foreign, Economic and Justice, Transparency and Human Rights tabled today, 29-5-2017, a draft law entitled ‘Definition of the Amended Agreement establishing the General Committee for Fisheries for the Mediterranean’, which is also referred to the relevant Standing Committee. Next is the third with number 701/6-4-2017, a topical question for the second Piraeus II cycle of the Association of Centres, Mr.Theodoras Megalo-Economist to the Minister of Health, concerning the closure of the local hospitals "House - Haravais" from the 2nd Health Area of Attica. Here, Mrs. Big Economics, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, once again I see that the timely question I had tabled on 6 April is almost two months later. It's almost not timely. But let's move on. This has happened to my other questions. I would like to refer to the closure of the medical services which the 2nd RSD, which also belongs to my region, without a warning. Without being notified, all of a sudden on the 3rd of April, these doctorates, the local "Netherlands-World" Keratsini, served the citizens for sixty years. It was very well known medical services. They went daily for their illnesses, for their problems citizens. And all of a sudden, as I said, the 2nd Ministry of Foreign Affairs closed the practice of Dawn on 3 April. But they know it's a highly laboured area. People are experiencing the most difficult situation, they cannot and are told to go to a more remote area where access is more difficult. I ask you, Minister, what do you intend to do? So, who suddenly made the decision to close the medical office? What do you intend to do? Is there any chance that you'll re-examine it so they can reopen it? You've made sure you're doing medical treatments to which they're going to relocate. But why is the rush to shut down the medicine before it becomes the metaphor, so the world will be served? I see you have a great deal of study to do, but can you explain to us what you intend to do? How will these people serve? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u14	Ms. Big Economics, let me start by saying that the image you present is not accurate. It has not booked the local medical office of Plenipotentiary - Courtesy. It's not closed. The truth is, however, that it is a local medical office very subordinated. He has only one general doctor, a dentist and a nurse. The idea, therefore, that the 2nd Ministry and the Ministry - obviously - agrees - is that this local health office should develop as part of the new primary care model that we will develop in a local health unit, in a TOMY and have the staff provided for by these structures, i.e. having four family doctors, a family pediatrician, two nurses, two health visitors, a social worker and - I think - a total of 12 people. So this is going to happen in the second half of 2017. An invitation will be made, because it is a programme funded by the ESRB, very soon in June, these posts will be covered, and in essence, in 2017, we will have an important upgrade of the care provided in this area. In total, the Municipality of Keratini - Drapetsonas is expected to acquire six such structures, which will add over sixty and seventy staff, working for primary care, beyond the Drapetsonas Health Center, which is a very well organized and trained health centre. The idea that existed, therefore, was to strengthen the particular local unit of the "National Day" the operation of this well-organised health centre, which also has laboratories, has radiological and microbiological and too many other specialities, to keep the dentistry, even in the context of the operation of the local health unit, TOMY, as I said before, which is not intended to have a dentistry. But we don't want to trouble people. It is good, since the dentist is already in operation and there is a dentist, stay there and offer the services. We believe that this combination of six new structures to be developed in the municipality and the upgrading and good functioning of the Drapetsona Health Center ensures that adequate care is taken in a field, such as primary health care, which let me say that it was completely deorganised after Law 4238/2014, the mass exit of three thousand qualified doctors from the system and the complete abandonment that has been in previous years. We are making an effort to upgrade the functioning of these structures and to develop new, more decentralised structures that will have a reasonable outwards, family care and, above all, preventive intervention in the community.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Minister. Mrs. Big Economics, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u16	Minister, you said you didn't close the local medical office. I have a letter from the Ministry of Health and the Vice-President of Piraeus from the club "The Progress". I'll testify her to see her. It refers to the closure of local offices on Monday 3 April 2017.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u17	It's not closed. These three people, the few people continue to work there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u18	This is where the local clubs sign.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u19	It's just inadequate staffing...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u20	Good. The clubs in the area...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u21	Minister, because these are not written in the Minutes, it makes no sense. Don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u22	Nobleness, however, and the Dawn are far from being sent to them now. So why would this study close before the other center is stationed? You say they'll be transferred. But it's too far to go. Basically, this worked for sixty years. It was a service. Why don't you run the existing one with missing doctors until the other one is ready? Now you leave them unexposed. You say only the dentist will be left. But why didn't you send to the existing one until the staff you mentioned in June? It is coming out as early as April and we arrive in June, but I do not see anything as optimistic and important as it is to serve them. It is an area that is downgraded and I stress that it has financial problems. I've also talked to the region's leaders, the mayors, the residents, and they say they're in trouble. I don't think they're lying that they're not serving, when they've been serving for sixty years. Let's manage the already existing thing with some doctors - pathologists, etc., as you say - until the other one is ready to serve them. Now you've left them exposed. I am sorry to tell you, but these complaints have been made and I have been told to put them to you where you are responsible. You tell me there'll only be a dentist. But how many people need a dentist? Most people need pathologists and other specialties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, my colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u24	Ms. Big Economics, maybe I wasn't very clear and understandable. I said: The structure has not been closed and will not be closed. It will barely evolve into a local health unit. Until this happens, that is to say, the staffing I told you before, ten to twelve people, with about five doctors and other health professionals, the today three people who work there, who are an inadequate staffing and obviously can only offer an incomplete care, will continue to remain there. There is no question of stopping this structure, although we believe that it is insufficient. I'd like to tell you something, there's only a date for that for the dentist. The system of electronic appointment of the 2nd RCD was not even integrated into the operation of the specific general doctor who is serving there. Therefore, the structure remains, evolves and adds five other decentralised structures, local health units, with a specific population of approximately ten to twelve thousand each. Of course, we also have a reliable health centre, the Drapetson Health Centre, which will support at second level, with laboratory infrastructure and with additional skills, much more the functioning of these structures. This is therefore a matter of upgrading and not of deterioration. That is what I want it to be quite clear. We have a landscape in primary care very problematic today and you are right to do and highlight its gaps and weaknesses. Our efforts are therefore, in 2017, in the second half of 2017, to make a significant improvement in the service and care of citizens in this area, where, unfortunately, citizens are suffering and are mainly being financially burdened. As we have said, from this disorganisation of the public health system in previous years there has been the phenomenon of passive privatisation of the system. In other words, people started paying more money than their pocket to have the necessary services. We want to reverse this because we believe that at this time of the crisis, the austerity, the poverty of society, there is a need to strengthen the public health system. This is what we do with the new model, using European resources and investing in the health system, creating more primary health care structures and hiring more than three thousand doctors and other health personnel. It will, in my opinion, be a very great intervention to upgrade the National Health System in the next few years, and this will also be expressed in this area, where these areas have been selected on the basis of a criterion, as you have said, of poverty, unemployment, low GDP per head, and more generally socio-economic deprivation of citizens. People's districts have been selected, where there really is a world that has difficulty in addressing, as in the past, the private sector and paying for an increased cost of care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Minister. Next is the discussion of the fourth under number 761/254/2017 on the second time question by the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister for Health, on the subject: "Will an official application be submitted to Patras for the relocation of the European Medicines Agency?". Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, I would also like to ask you, as you have done well with my colleague Mrs Papacostas, to allow me before you start counting time, a few words to say about Constantine Mitsotakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u27	Of course, as long as we don't get far, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u28	The last of the traditional policies has left, which have marked the political history of our country in the last century. The route of Constantine Mitsotakis for six decades reveals a separate political personality, whether it agrees or disagrees. This is a confessed truth. I would like here today, from the seat of the House, to express all those who followed him on the difficult road, to those difficult struggles at the frontal conflict that he had with the forces of corruption. I would like to say that we will remember and honor the memory of the former Prime Minister, the Honorary President of the New Republic for his offer and disturbing political path. Mr President, I have been his own choice, and by his own decision I entered the 1989 victory lists, which he arrived to get 48%, and I have been here since, at the seat of the Parliament, as a representative of the Achaea constituency. To close, I would like to say a great thank you to the House, from the House that he loved so much, who served her and honoured her. I would like to say to him: 'Mr President, thank you for everything. If we could hear you when we should, we might have saved a lot of what our people and our homeland today." To Kyriakos, Dora and his family, I and the Christian Democratic Party of Greece want to express our sincere condolences. Now I come to the topical question. Minister, your choice has given us - and to me personally, but I believe in both the Greeks and Greeks who are following the work of this House today - great joy because you have set out what criteria of the decisions of today's political leadership and the Ministry of Health, especially those of the Ministries with this very great value that they have always had, let alone the period of crisis and austerity, as you have said. Minister, following the United Kingdom's decision to leave the European Union, the European Medicines Agency, as you know, must relocate to another country - member of the European Union and in accordance with the legal status of the European Union, the European Commission will decide the criteria of the new city. The Heads of State will then meet to vote for the final successor city. I note, so that we know why these countries are taking the line to get the anointment, Mr President. This European Medicines Agency, which approves and controls the safety of medicinal products throughout the European Union, employs some nine hundred employees. In other words, only by the payroll of these people is the level of money that travels monthly in their host city. It is therefore necessary to mobilise directly the competent ministers so that a city that can first support the size of such a body can be put as a candidate. From journalistic sources a lot has been published in the press, as it appears from winter that the government has knowledge and displayed mobility. In March, however, we learned from a reply from the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs to a question from the speaker that the Attica Region was proposed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Undoubtedly, in planning the final selection of the city that is being proposed, it has to play a role, Minister - and I stop here, as the rest is in my denture - a set of criteria like what you said just before about Keratsini. Is there anyone in this Chamber - and also outside this Chamber - who does not know that the de-industrialised Western co-chairman, the city of Patras, has been first faced with this crisis and is she experiencing this great nightmare of unemployment and underdevelopment? Minister, I am glad that you are here today and I am waiting to hear - because you have not answered then - if it is true that you have made a decision to strengthen the Athenian state even further. If that is the case, you have to tell us which criteria you have decided on. Who did you consult with? Did you tell the district managers? Was it a conversation? Did it become a public debate? I look forward to your answer with interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u30	Indeed, after Brexit has opened a debate on where they will be hosted, in which countries in Europe, organisations which have been in existence so far in the United Kingdom. It is also right that there is an increasing international interest in hosting these organisations, because I think everyone understands the enormous legal and development importance they have for each country. For the European Pharmacopoeia Agency, Coreper, twenty of the twenty-eight European countries, including our country, have already expressed interest. We're in the process of compiling the file. We are in agreement with the European Pharmacopoeia Agency. We will also have a margin by the end of July for the file to be filed. There are already bilateral contacts and meetings with other countries that have also expressed interest. We have agreed that there should be a set of criteria which will make the final choice from the Commission. These criteria will be discussed at the next Council of Ministers, which will be held in Luxembourg in mid-June. Obviously, our country will also try to strengthen its position by presenting criteria relating to Europe's regional development, but also to infrastructure that can ensure a smooth transition to this body, because it is a very critical vehicle for both innovation in pharmaceuticals in Europe and for checking the quality of medicines and, above all, for meeting the need for Europe's citizens to have easy access to new medicines. So I think we can prepare a remarkable dossier as a country. But I want you to bear in mind the following: firstly, the central management of the matter is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Deputy Minister, the Foreign Minister, Mr Katrugalos. He has the initiative for the movement policy and the Ministry of Health as a supplementary helps, with his supervised bodies and his services, this claim. Secondly, you should be aware that a very dominant criterion is the easy access of citizens, workers and, of course, those who are dealing with it in a country. In this sense, I think it would be very problematic to add, beyond moving to the central airport in the country, to add and move to the inland, which adds time, travel costs and so on. In this sense, I think that the idea of decentralising this claim outside Athens is probably weakening our negotiating power. I believe that there are also building infrastructures in Lefkanos. I imagine that there will be similar in Patras, as in other parts of Greece. But, my dear fellow Member, unfortunately, at this stage and for such a serious European organisation, we cannot make criteria - let me say - closely, national type - that is to say, dealing with unemployment or poverty in the country. They must be criteria that can be compared with very strong candidacies, such as Dublin, such as Brussels, such as Copenhagen, such as Madrid, Rome, towns, which have very easy access to air connections, tactics and so forth, which will facilitate the operation of this body.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, I have to say that I am fucked because I thought that, if the Minister comes here, I would say, he should come here to put a self-government! Because today everyone sees us. Apart from Parliament's channel, today all Western Greek channels are telling me that they show this meeting. I do not feel at all sorry for my fellow Members of SYRIZA in western Greece because they are in bed. I don't feel sorry for them at all, even though they will hear from them today. What? The government doesn't know. Because if I understood well, it says: Yes, Athens is. Forget the rest! What did the Minister tell us? We have an airport, Minister. We have a port. We've got all the infrastructures. I and the President-in-Office think that for many years we have been members of the Council of Europe. To get to Strasbourg, ask us every month how many kilometres and how many transportation we were changing. So don't give me that. The city, Patras, the western co-chair, has no backwardness in infrastructure, in buildings, whatever you want. As for the rest, I imagine I'll break open doors. Because if we did not have closed industrial units since the 1980s, if we did not have this poverty - unemployment is sadly suffering in the region - you can see, Mr President, that it could not be easily possible, so I would say, political power, whose sensitivity, in particular, has made them think it could be more friendly and attractive. I am sorry, however, because unfortunately, Mr President, we are living one of the same. It says, "It is the responsibility of Mr Katrugalou." Is Mr. Katrugalos alone? On this matter, Karugalos decides, not the government? I know I can't do much, except yell as much as I can inside or outside the House. And when I ask if he listens to Maximus, it turns out that most of the time he doesn't listen to Maximus. But we won't stop. Today the Minister came and gave us the opportunity to hear that again Greece is only Athens. The other Greece in the region does not exist in the designs of this government either. Yes, sir! That's great! From today, then, we will continue this struggle, because we feel that we do not show anything that is of interest to my country, my special homeland. No, that's not the criteria. The criteria of the choice of Patras can withstand any of the cities said by the Minister. And I'm sorry, because she has this picture for the city or because she doesn't know the infrastructure Patra has. I will come back with a question to the Prime Minister, hoping that - before it is too late, because after a month it will be too late - he will take the situation into his hands. Because it's not Georgiou Katrugalou, it's a government case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Nicolopoulou, I think you're approaching the wrong thing. We have a very serious claim, for which our country must make a huge effort, put forward a complete file and put forward its comparative advantages to claim this very serious candidacy. That's not for granted. In other words, we do not have approved the hospitality of this organization from our country and we are opening a debate on where to place it...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u35	Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Nicolopoulou, I listened carefully. Please, too!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u37	Are you telling us who you talked to?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Colleague, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u39	I would like to ask a question, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u40	We have a process and you know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u41	Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u42	As an old parliamentarian you must respect the procedure. Thank you, Mr. Nicholas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u43	Who did you talk to, Minister? Did you consult? Did you ask for proposals? Tell us who you talked to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u44	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u45	Well, I'm saying we don't have the candidacy in our pocket right now, and we're opening a debate about where we're gonna put it. We are trying to strengthen the country's negotiating arguments against far more powerful candidacies, as I have told you before, hosting organisations that have experience, which have transport infrastructure, which have networks of support much more organised than ours. In our view, therefore, the government is obviously responsible for this, and I said that Mr Katrugalos, I did not say that he decided on his own - and in consultation with the Ministry of Health and the Government as a whole - that this can be supported better by Athens. That's the whole point. We can't do this here...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u46	Did you talk to someone? Answer that, too. Did you talk to anyone?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u47	Please very much. There could be corresponding to your objections and other regions of the country...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u48	That's right. Did you talk to anyone?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u49	...and from Thessaloniki and from Crete and from Ioannina and from Larissa and from everywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u50	Did you talk to anyone? Who did you talk to? With God?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Nicolopoulos, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u52	Listen...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u53	Tell us who you talked to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u54	Minister, if you finish, this dialogue will also end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u55	Did you talk to the people? With the regions? Who did you talk to?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u56	Please very much. I think now that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u57	No, tell us who you talked to!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u58	Look, now. Apparently...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Nicolopoulos, please. You made a very nice presentation of your question. Now let the answer be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u60	Obviously, he has the responsibility of the government. Listen, please, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u61	Is he making fun of us now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u62	Localization contest can be easily done in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u63	All right, all right!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u64	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u65	That's right, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u66	Who did you talk to?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u67	Localism contest can be done by everyone in here. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u68	Who did you talk to?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Comrade!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u70	I say to you that we are going to put together a serious dossier in order to claim this candidacy seriously.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u71	And that doesn't offend the region?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u72	This type of approach, in my view, is not serious and you know it. And I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u73	The Bureau is trying to...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u74	But please! Will you fix the file first and then the city?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Nicolopoulos, I'm trying mildly to carry out the process. Please. Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minutes of Wednesday 29 March 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether they have been ratified.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u76	The Minutes of Wednesday 29 March 2017 were therefore validated. Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth question under number 872/23-5-2017 of the Greek Communist Party, Mr. Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To reopen the Integrated Personal Management System for Personnel Management A/State and B/State Education (OPSYD) for those who have not been able to do so", will not be discussed as a result of a failure by the Member in question. They will also not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the relevant ministers and will be redefined for discussion the following topical questions: The first with number 871/23-5-2017 a top-level question for the first cycle of Congressman I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros Triantafylides, to the Minister of National Defence, on "First Camp Kodra Kalamarias - East Thessaloniki: Showing the area in an ultra-local park". The Minister of National Defence Mr. Panos Kammenos is on an official visit to Rhodes. The third, with number 868/23-5-2017, top-level question by MP Argolidas of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the activation of the decision on pilot study of the Association for Economic Control (ZOE) Argos. The Minister for the Environment and Energy is outside Athens. The first under number 867/22-5-2017 topical question by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister for Environment and Energy, on "Total and not partial relocation of the community of Achlada in the Prefecture of Florina". The Minister for the Environment and Energy is outside Athens. The second question, under number 873/23-5-2017, on the operation of the Refugee Refugee Centre in Lavrio, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister. The Minister for Migration Policy, Mr Ioannis Mousalas, on account of a workload, cannot be present. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Before we close the meeting, I would remind you that the scheduled debate has been postponed for the time being under question 26/15-2017. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-05-29-S1-commons.u77	With the consent of the House at 19.00 the sitting for Thursday, June 1, 2017, at 9.30, on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
