ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The meeting's on. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's 12-1-2017 authorisation, the Minutes of its PRACTICE Sessions of Thursday 12 January 2017 concerning the vote on all: (a) the proposal: "To amend the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament - Part Parliamentary Party (Volumes 106 A' 24-6 1987) and Part II (Volume II" (Volume II'/104-1977), as applicable" and (b) the draft law: "Delete the Memorandum of Understanding for Cooperation in Tourism between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Arab Republic of Egypt and other provisions".]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before entering the debate on the one timely question to be debated, I have the honour of announcing to the House the topical and urgent debate on Monday 16 January 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 321/9-1-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Konstantinos Javara, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, concerning the suspension of the professional activity of the members of the Government. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 330/10-1-2017 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis on the staffing of the twelve regional airports of the Greek-German consortium Fraport S.A. with the fire department personnel. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 322/9-1-2017 of the Member of Parliament of the Republic of New Democracy, Mr Mavroudi Voridis, to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the "mortem attack of a gang against the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs - NLFK ATTI of Thessaloniki". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 331/10-1-2017 topical question by MP 2 Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Vardalis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the problem of the workers of the supermarket "Afios Karypidi S.A.". 3. Mr Diamantos Manolakos, Minister for Economy and Development, on the "Greek Sugar Industry (EBZ)" question by No 309/4-1-2017. 4. The 329/10-1-2017 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister for Migration Policy, concerning measures by refugees and migrants from the brutality. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on improving the conditions for the granting of benefits to uninsured overages. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Attica of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Friday Christophilopoulos to the Minister of Finance about the Special Tax on Consumption in wine. Ladies and gentlemen, to be included in the Minutes, I must tell you that today it will not be debated due to the unsuccessful obligations of the Minister responsible, Mr Moussala, and that it will be redefined for discussion the second, number 329/10-1-2017, a topical question for the second-cycle question by the Member of Parliament, Mr Christos Katsotis, on measures to protect refugees and migrants from the bourgeoisie. Also, the first one under number 319/9-1-2017, the first question of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Evros Anastasios State to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the degradation - abolishing the Tychros Border Guard Department in Evros, will not be asked because of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Nicholas Toska. Cause: He'll be out of Athens. It will be redefined for discussion. The second, with number 327/10-1-2017, is a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMMAR. Mr Vassiliou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Economy and Development, on the need for sustainable regulation of red housing loans, will not be called for as a result of the impediment of the Minister for Economy and Development Mr Dimitrios Papadimitriou. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. It will be redefined for discussion. The third, with number 328/10-1-2017, a top-stage question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education for Research and Religious Affairs, on the education of refugees, will not be asked because of the impediment of the Minister of Education Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. Cause: workload. It will be redefined for discussion. The fourth under number 325/9-1-2017 topical question for the first cycle of MP in Thessaloniki, Mr.Ioannis Saridis, to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the approval of a medium-term business plan for the Port Authority of Thessaloniki (O.L.I.TH).Mr Panagiotis Kourublis will not be demanded as a result of an impediment by the Minister for Maritime Affairs. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. It will be redefined for discussion. Finally, the first question under number 320/9-1-2017 of the new Republic MP Florina, Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis, on the progress of the projects and studies on the 5th EPA (ESDP) in Florina, will not be asked because of an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Alexandros Haritsis. Cause: unsuccessful liabilities. It will be redefined for discussion. For all these reasons, there is also the letter accompanying the Secretary of Government, Mr Kalogeros, confirming what you have heard. Finally, there is a letter to the President of the Greek Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Voutsi, which reads as follows: Mr President, I would like to inform you in writing that I will not be in the Potamian Parliamentary Group in future, while remaining an independent MEP. Ilhan Ahmet, MP Rhodope.’ [[The above letter reads as follows:]] Changing p. To put the page on.8 Changing p.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, how many people have left on the river now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u3	I don't remember how many people they are. My services say there are seven Members left. We shall begin with the one and only, as I said, a question which will be answered by the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr Nikolaos Pappas. It is the third with No 324/9-1-2017 topical question from the Independent MEP, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on the activation - the exercise of the duties of the new members of the National Radio Broadcasting Council (EPC). It goes without saying that the time I put it is symbolic. There will be tolerance, but not to start a "Maximus" show, Mr Nicolopoulos! Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, we are on our own, but three separate here today. I wanted, first of all, to welcome the new member to the group of independents. Turns out, I did a good bike and the last time I quit the Samara government, but this time, as the number is growing and growing. I'm sorry to hear Mr. Theodorakis, but according to his works! Mr President, I wanted you to allow me today - because I have no other means of security than this statement before you and here at the National Representation - to say that in recent days, because of these questions like today, I have received certain threats, telephone calls and letters. I'm not saying it 'cause I'm gonna go back, but I'm saying it, 'cause I'm not running around with cops. Our compatriots see me with a duck. But as I said in time for the Prime Minister - where I did not make a good bike when I had the pleasure and honour for the first time to be launched again by Mr Tsipras - I repeat today: it cannot be pimpediency threatening Members. On Monday, I have been invited for what we have heard and learned in the Prosecutors' Committee of Inquiry, to testify for Mr Alfouzo. Yesterday I sent an extrajudicial to ALPHA, Mr. Nearmenias and others, because they attempted to murder me and anyone else. Minister, I do not think we should live again after the appointment of the PSE, because, in other words, the PSE came from a cross-party agreement, we should have a cross-party silence. So today I came to you not to say something of my own, but to remind you of your own words, the words that you yourself, as Minister of State, said a few months ago here, from this Step, in reply to my own timely question. I would remind you, therefore, that you said: 'Those people who think they will find ways to overcome legality are wrong. Canalarchs think that the public property exists to serve them and that one can have a private business, which is unfortunately in theft, loan and anguish.” I would also remind you of the words you said on August 29, 2016, that the government since January 2015 has charged 50 million euros of the end of the use of frequencies and of the advertising tax, which the previous governments did not do and that the canalarchs reacted, saying they should not pay. However, we entered 2017 and I wish you could disprove the concerns of Greek taxpayers that the party continues. We all know what happened in the medium term, we all know that a new ERR was set up in order to run the process. But developments don't see. Every day he passes, the public loses money. It is not possible, Minister, for you to do what you do not know what the whole world knows and what it has, and I personally have denounced you here. In other words, it cannot be possible for the CFO to have overall requirements for the public fund of 140-160 million. How does he show up, Minister, to have money? The mobile and immovable property of publishers and canalarchs cannot be bound, yet they still appear as hijackers, as Mr. Tsipras said. So where are we heading? How long does the PSE still need to reach decisions and enforce the procedures to determine and comply with the new television scenery? Has the Greek people's hopes been lost for a new and clearer authority? Does the definition of the new ERC mark the government's conspiracy to the rule of law, which he denounced until first? Finally, please answer: Is the frequency fee and advertising tax paid? Has your legal services been asked whether the PSE members have individual liability, criminal and civil, for the damage that the State suffers from the non-recovery of fees from the broadcasting frequencies, but also the revenues from the tender for television licences? If the legal services have not been asked, would you ask them? I will inform you that I have also sent two letters to the PSE, although the former President of the Ice Bay is there and will not wait for me, but he will certainly know that the breath of the citizens is burning them too. If they think they're supposed to be independent and I love God and they don't have responsibilities, they're probably wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u5	Before I give the floor to the Minister, I would like to say that you have looked at the Independents, Mr Nicolopole, because just the Secretary of the Democratic Independent Group, Mr Kegeroglou, has given me a letter - to the President of Parliament, of course - which says: "Mr. President, I would like to inform you that Mr. Lakonia Leonidas Gregorakos has been part of the Group of the Democratic Alliance since today. Yours sincerely, Gennamas.”
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u6	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u7	One's gone, one's here!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u8	I said you looked at them!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u9	We ran into a journey day in general!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u10	Here, Minister, you have the floor with regard to tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, Mr Nicolopoulos, on the occasion of your question, I should like to begin by stressing that after too many years there is a National Broadcasting Council. The latter had been elected in 2002. And it is obvious that stagnation was something that went from very specific political purposes to serve the known interests. And of course, now that there is a National Broadcasting Council, it will also take over all the responsibilities. I think that the expectations of the citizens are very high, and I believe, as I imagine every member of the National Representation, that especially this composition of the National Broadcasting Council has a clear obligation under the law to proceed promptly to licensing and, at a time not far from the competition of August last year. And I think that all the members of the National Broadcasting Council are aware of this because there is a fait accompli, which is the price paid. It turned out, in other words, that the claims made by the earlier governments and the parties now in the Opposition that there should be no price for the operation of television stations in the whole of Greece. There was a price and it was paid. Unfortunately, we had a temporary brake, as I would say, from the decision of the Council of State. But now, regardless of the decision of the Council of State, we have to make it clear that if one makes the assumption that the decision of the Council of State of 2010 is in force, which says that the extension of television broadcasters throughout Greece without the payment of the relevant price is illegal and unconstitutional, it is clear that both the independent authority and the political leadership must be moved, so that it is compatible with this requirement of our constitutional court. So I come to tell you that we are learning that the decision of the Council of State will be published very soon and we will be consulted again with the Independent Regulatory Authority to see the timetables. And, of course, in no case shall we leave any intervals until the licence is completed, which will be a period of unpaid operation, in the commonly referred to as 'bababa'. This thing isn't going to happen. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Now, with regard to the questions which you are addressing very specifically, Mr Nicholas, I would like to say something very little, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u12	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u13	You ask, Mr Nicolopoulou, whether the fee for using frequencies and the tax on advertising is paid. So you are giving me the opportunity to submit to the minutes of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, which was submitted to us at the request and in the light of the parliamentary scrutiny and the specific question, which records exactly the confirmed and paid by the Greek public broadcasters. [[At this point, the Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr. Nikos Pappas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I therefore inform the House and the Greek people that in 2015 and 2016 EUR 76 million has been charged out of the advertising tax and EUR 60 million has already been collected. In other words, the property of the 60 million euro television stations has been paid. The Greek State - I quote - had collected more EUR 86-88 million from last August's competition. Unfortunately, these should be returned. So it is already a new situation in force. There is no status quo in which digitised laws were not applied. Nor here do we have a government that is stirring up the threat of the application of legality, to negotiate support or the ovals of particular interests. This isn't about it. The law applies. I repeat, 60 million of the advertising tax has already been collected and, of course, a smaller amount has already been collected than the use of frequencies, which they pay legally. I think that is exactly a new phase. In terms of responsibilities, I say this very well, Mr Nicholas: we and the whole of the National Representation and the independent authority must ensure the public interest. And the public interest on the presumption requires that there should be a high price for the operation of all-Greek stations. That's just so clear. And not to tell me in your dentext that I am avoiding questions, I will also address my legal services for a more detailed, thorough and legal answer, in relation to your question. I would like to reiterate and point out to you that this government by political responsibility for compliance with the law and the Constitution will not be carried out.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u14	Here, Mr. Nicolopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, I was not sad because my colleague, Mr Gregorakos, was reinstated to the ranks of PASOK.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u16	Okay, I hurt you now, don't comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u17	Alas. Perhaps my colleague, who is sitting on the chair today, Mr Mitsotakis, should be saddened. However, the Lacones have certainly not been upset today, the neo-democrats, and of course neither my friend, Mr Davakis, nor the others, since everyone goes where it fits. But now I understand why you were outside the crowds assembled by shouting "Eshanna": why George Papandreou returned, who, as he did not have to, put us in what we are.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u18	Now, you are an old parliamentarian and you know that nominal reports, when they do not exist to answer, are not right. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u19	You are right, Mr President, but the debate is alive, and I can only say that I am glad that the savior, George Papandreou, is finally turning around. Mr President, I would like to hear from the Minister today if the information is true that tomorrow the Council of State is published, which, as I know, says it is possible to proceed with the process with the PSE. Let's hear what he's going to say 'yes'. But at the same time, Minister, I did not understand how much time the PSE would like? Is he still in the adjustment phase? So they're watching the show, they're watching the truths that happen, the "kills," they're taking action? But on that one, every day that passes, loses the public? How much does he lose? A rent will come out, and what will be the reasonable price? If the S.H.E. says, for a reasonable price, what will be the reasonable price for the political leadership? How much rent do they have to pay? And will we finally see from this decision whether it is braked, whether it was defeated, as they say, of the government and, in particular, of the Pope, this development, and whether they can really rest that everything will be like it used to be? And, though, it is right that members of pimpish domination sometimes feel. Because, Minister, the Greek people really do not understand why they should be excluded from the "outside you". Because that's how they learned and because that's how the pimps want to keep going? What is it they want to protect? They don't know who they are, do they? Anything else? A few months ago with the 'Pappa' law on television licences - I would remind you that our compatriots, who are very close to heavy taxation, agreed to submit a full list of assets to participate in the tender on the basis of the law of your own. Now why do they object to doing something similar? What do they care? To protect themselves? Their executives? Because they're also the ones you had to make statements to where you came from. Are they not able to justify the property they acquired? Why is there enough undeclared 'black money' in this case? Minister, I don't know if anyone should be sitting in those seats to compromise. The last meeting of the Committee of Inquiry is due to begin shortly. We'll see what suggestion you're coming. We're going to cover it up? Will we close the story of media lending? Because just yesterday - listen - on 8-8-2016, Mr President, and while the Committee of Inquiry took out all these laundry in the forum, a big-fashioned man who moves the finger, the one who said that he engulfed a check in Mr Mitsotakis' pocket, took 1,200,000 from your country, yours. Let's see why they don't want to make a statement either way. Before the President has given me the floor, and I would like to ask you, Minister, to tell me whether we are really ahead of developments, to tell me whether the PSE - because we have learned that you have met - has in mind every day how to deal with its tasks, on a daily basis, but above all to restore order and legitimacy. You will allow me, Minister, not to say 'I didn't know, nobody told me', to present you with the two letters, which I sent to the PSE - and not to say that they didn't know it, because they know what they are doing and what responsibilities they have - and to submit to you the out-of-court, which I sent last night and to the political leaders and the other responsible, also so that they don't know what is going on. Why do people come to tell us that we're blackmailing the public interest, because we're saying that the Fourth Woo can't hold the case for six years! [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u20	Before the Minister takes the floor, in order to restore the reality and to protect the House, I would like to say, Mr Nicolopoulou, that the extension of the statements of where you had come from was not on the order of the canals nor on the order of anyone else, but on the grounds of objective difficulties. This is just an extension and it does not exclude any of those who were at the outset. And we are all concerned, and Members who hadn't had time for civil servants and other officials. So he didn't exclude any of the people you hinted about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u21	Why didn't they?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u22	I don't know why. However, the extension is not an exception.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u23	But they made a statement, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u24	I don't care.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u25	I say you know that they made a statement and they say 'we don't want'. Are these different from everyone else?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Nicolopoulos, please calm down. I do not respond on behalf of what you say. I'm not their attorney or I'd like to be. However, I would like to reply on behalf of the House. Secondly, the Minister has suggested that the decision of the Council of State is to be taken. He's not a representative of the S.H.E.A. to answer that question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u27	But he might know. It's the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u28	And knowing he can't answer on behalf of S.H.E.L.D.'s. Everyone upstairs knows what we've read. At the end of the day, you will allow me to say - perhaps in excess of my duties, but I was also concerned with you at the time - about what you suggested in a pocket check by Mr Mitsotakis. You are obviously not referring to Mr. Mitsotakis. Because as Mr. Mitsotakis it will be written in the Minutes. And secondly, on this issue, as you well remember, justice at that time, twenty-five or twenty-six years ago, that is. To write this in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, I respect and honor Constantine Mitsotakis. My report was made...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u30	I see. You hit another badge.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u31	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Nicolopoulos, I didn't give you the floor. How did you get him the floor? What do you want now? Rescind you in class? Sit down! There is nothing written about what Mr Nicholas said without having given him the floor. Delete everything from the Minutes. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u33	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u34	Now the Minister will speak, Mr. Nicholas. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, Mr Nicolopoulos, I would like to begin with this: it is obvious that the National Broadcasting Council has full support and support for ours. And from the first moment they took their seats and sat down in their chairs, we met them and said - and in fact - that they would have our full support for politics and morals and logistics. We have given them all the work we have done during the tendering process, and I think this is a 'Publicity' of the public, which the independent authority must definitely make use of. We are obviously in a process of regulating the information landscape and that is what let me take the opportunity to say that it is not just television. It is also about the Internet that we have now completed, and in very short time, the register on line media will be in place. In other words, public ads will only be able to get those Internet media that have been registered in the relevant register. The response is already too great. More than three hundred online media have been enrolled and I think this is a move that all the political forces should embrace, support, and of course will bring an injection of too much transparency into how public advertising is distributed and will also - let me say - restore working relations on the Internet media where we all know that things are very bad. We will also bring the bill for the electronic platform for advertising time. It is another major wound, and because we know things that, of course, if we cannot prove them, it is good to avoid saying in public, I will once again say that in the way in which advertising is distributed and in the handling of money, there are gray zones. So, this legislative initiative, I think, will help to prevent these grey areas and - where do you know, Mr Nicolopoulos? - There will also be questions about springs, about the motives of some to demand in a disgraceful and convicted way, I think, not to submit a statement from anyone else. Let me say a word, Mr President. I am pleased that the Civic Opposition in a communication, which, of course, usually blossoms me with various cosmic surnames, was put in favour of making statements where you had such property...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u36	I think it's a unanimous decision. Let's have a good talk about the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u37	All right, political controversy, of course, and let it be extreme at one time, it's okay, but here I think there has been one step and the last thing left in this regard is, if there is a sign of shame and outrage, that this appeal should be withdrawn from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u38	How fast can the competition be?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u39	That is to say, people who have come to realize that it is insulting to be in a situation where the journalist of EUR 600 and 700 is obliged to testify from time to time and claim for themselves not to fall under this obligation. I think that is something that affects everyone. Finishing...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u40	How much time does the competition need?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u41	I'm coming to this now. I think that there should be a re-consultation, with the publication of the decision by the Council of State, with the National Broadcasting Council and, from there on, with the adoption of the decisions. In any case, Mr Nicolopoulos, the mid-term between now and the completion of the licence will not be a time when television stations will operate without honour. It's over and over! I think there is an absolute political decision on this, and I think there can be...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u42	Will they pay rent?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u43	I'm coming to this, too. So I think there can also be wider consensus here. Now, you asked me about the reasonable price. There is one presumption, the tender that took place in August. In other words, it has been assessed by a crystalline and transparent procedure, a procedure which, in its internal cohesion, has been tested by the Supreme Constitutional Court in every step and only for the transfer of powers, we have the negative, unfortunately, for the interests of the public. So this procedure is the presumption and the driver, in our opinion, of the amount and the reasonableness of the price. Finally, because you have also made a reference to the Committee of Inquiry, I would like to say that in the committee of inquiry I think that the Greek people also had the opportunity to hear signs and monsters. In my opinion, Mr Nicolopoulos and Mr President, the signs and monsters under the carpet do not fit. I think we've started a process...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u44	But do not prejudge the decision of the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u45	And I as a member of the government...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u46	We're stopping it here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u47	You're right, Mr. President. I will stop here because it is a committee of Parliament in which we do not have any competence. But I think that here we have a grid of moves, regulations and initiatives that indicate and make it very clear to the Greek people that this government has no intention of continuing at all. I repeat: 60 million has been paid since the beginning of 2015 and yet another amount has been paid, which unfortunately due to how public revenue codes are structured is not very easy to separate, but it is also normally paid for the end of the use of frequencies. Very soon, I repeat our commitment, we will come with the arrangement that will cover the price from now on until the licensing process is completed. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u48	Give me two minutes to make a statement, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u49	Make that statement from the outside. We're done because goodness is wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u50	Yeah, but you referred to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u51	What did I refer to? I spoke with a lot of love.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u52	I'll tell you about Constantine Mitsotakis, because I think I have to do it and I want to. Can I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u53	I protected Constantine Mitsotakis, with the agreement of yours. We're covered. The debate on the one and only topical question has been concluded. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-01-13-S1-commons.u54	With the consent of the House at 10.40 p.m. the sitting on Monday, January 16, 2017, at 18.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
