ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 1 September 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1331/28-8-2017 by MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Evangelias (Valias) Vagonakis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the institutional protection of the region of Elafonisio Chania. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1322/22-8-2017 topical question by MP Evros of New Democracy Mr Anastasios Prussakis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Samothraki has been cut off in the middle of a tourist season! In despair, residents, tourists and businessmen in general!' 3. The 1360-29-8-2017 topical question of the Communist Party of Greece, Athanasios Vardalis to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on "Protection of the National Park Delta Axis - Loudia - Aliakmon". B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 1323/22-8-2017 by the Member of Parliament, Mr Jasona Fotella, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Will a solution be finally given to the issue of 'AMIADIT'? 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 1252/18-7-2017 of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Electricity cuts in Rhodes, in the middle of a heat and tourist season.” 3. The question by No 1253/18-7-2017 of the Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Ilias Kasidiaris to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Research and drilling for hydrocarbon deposits in the area south of Crete and in the Greek Exclusive Economic Zone." 4. Under number 1158/4-7-2017, a topical question by MP Florina of New Democracy Mr.Ioannis Antoniadis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Total and not partial relocation of the Achlada Community of the Prefecture of Florina". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question and application under number 6397/602/15-6-2017 by the Independent MEP Mr. Georgios - Dimitrios Karras to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Destructive slashing at the lignite mine of Amyntaios". Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Interior, Economic and Development, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Health, Administrative Reconstruction and State Aid, Deputy Ministers for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, and the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, have tabled a draft law on 29-8-8-2017 entitled ‘Retiremental regulations and other insurance provisions, strengthening the protection of workers, the rights of persons with disabilities and other provisions’. Furthermore, the Ministers for Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Economic, Maritime and Interior Policy, as well as the Deputy Minister of Interior, submitted a draft law on 30-8-2017 entitled ‘European mandate for investigation into criminal matters - Harmonisation of legislation with Directive 2014/41/EU’. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The third will be discussed under No 1321/22-8-2017, a topical question from the New Democracy MP, Fotinis Arabatzis, Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Except for the NSRF the radiant monument of Amphipolis, due to the "immature" of the project, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture". The Minister for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, in fact, in our disappointment at the general treatment of Amphipolis by the Government of SYRIZA - ANLE was the fiasco - you will allow me to say - the rejection of the Amphipolis integration file in the 2014-2020 programme, rejection by the Special Service of the Region of Central Macedonia, as the decision mentions, because of the "immovability" of the project and serious deficiencies in the required studies. This, Minister, has happened despite your assurances here, from the Step of the House, on 16-12-2016, in a debate on my topical question, that your ministry has a programming for joining the NRP 2014-2020. This has happened, despite early announcements, during your visit to Amphipolis on May 11, 2017, that a new phase of work starts in the wider archaeological site of Amphipolis, with the inclusion of the project of 1,5 million euros. This unfavourable development, Minister, affects, as you can see, once again the radiant and unique monument of Amphipolis, which has been standing for over two and a half years and is in danger of going through another winter without works. This, of course, allow me to say that it is a criminal inertia and indifference. So since the Ministry of Culture will obviously have to submit a new technical document for the successful integration of the dossier, because the excavation in Lofo Castas has repeatedly suffered the devaluation of this government, I personally - and as it seems I am entitled - had described it as a political condemnation, Minister, on the one hand, by the date of the monument, that the monument is not Macedonian, on the other, of course, and, above all, with its total abandonment both in terms of the continuation of the excavation, but even in the basic acts of protection of the monument and its rescue, I ask you directly: What is now where we reached the next moves and the specific timetable of your Ministry for the re-submission of the dossier in order to avoid losing the deadline of 31 December 2017 set by the notice of the Region of Central Macedonia? Who, of course, has the responsibility of this failure, the responsibility of rejecting the dossier, and therefore who will re-coordinate the submission of the dossier to the NSRP 2014-2020?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, my colleague. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mrs Arabatzis, for giving me the opportunity to clarify a number of issues relating to this truly unique monument. However, there is neither fiasco nor ‘improveability’ nor indifference. In fact, in the context of the Regional Operational Programme of Central Macedonia 2014-2020, the project was submitted for accession on 2 June by the Ministry of Culture and Sport, entitled “Strength, Conservation, Rehabilitation and Promotion of a Monument of Tymvos Kasta in Amphipolis Serres”, with a budget of 1.5m euros in the framework of the official invitation of the Region of Central Macedonia and with bodies implementing the Restoration of Ancient Monuments, the Department of Conservation of Ancient and New Monuments and the Limitations of Antiquities of Serres. I would like to emphasise what we all know, but it is important to remember that, that this is a highly complex project, a complex project that requires too many specific parameters. This project includes the finalisation and specialisation of the studies, the work of the existing studies on Amphipolis, the work of restoring and highlighting the monument, as well as the formation and renovation of its environment. At the same time, however, it involves - and here we come into a very important part - the resolution of multi-parametric scientific and technical problems, for which further investigation and hierarchy of the necessary work has been necessary. Therefore, due to its complexity and the need to precede exploratory work in order to prepare individual studies on the integrated fixing, maintenance, restoration and promotion of its monument and environment, the Ministry, through the proposal, tried to exhaust all the possibilities provided by the legislation on the maturation of the whole project, in accordance with Article 177 of Law 4412/2016 on public works, supplies and services contracts. However, the Special Management Office of the Operational Programme of the Region of Central Macedonia rejected the submitted technical bulletin, possibly because there was a lack of consultation between the two institutions. Usually the standard practice is to have prior consultation between the bodies on the clarifications required in specific technical details, clarifications, management parameters before the final bulletin is deposited. This has not been done and there has been a rejection. The Ministry of Culture and Sport was immediately mobilised on 2-8-2017 at a joint meeting of all the stakeholders at the headquarters of the Special Management Agency of the Region of Central Macedonia in Thessaloniki, where both sides were given clarifications and the necessary elements were recorded for the re-submission of the proposal with a time horizon - and here we come to the timetable - on 20 September 2017, which will have a new meeting, in order to provide any further clarifications required, for which the relevant directorates of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, namely the Restoration Directorate, the Ministry of Conservation and the Ministry's Management Directorate. At this point I would like to say that it was not just the work of Tymvos Kasta in Amphipolis that was rejected. Four other works related to the Prefecture of Imathia, the Prefecture of Pellas and one to the Prefecture of Thessaloniki, at Agios Andreas Peristeras. However, I would like to point out this: the same services that we have been doing for years, what we have seen throughout Greece, and we admire it, are doing the studies and technical bulletins to make all these projects. The same people made these studies, Mrs. Arabaji. The same people took care of them. I would like to stress here that the services of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, regardless of the principle, have procedures that they keep up with and constantly honour them with the same scientific adequacy and the same dedication. And it would be worth wondering if, in such a work of great scope and brightness and peculiarity, such as Amphipolis and Tympus Casta, these same services showed negligence and indifference. That's not true. We are barely in a very good relationship and cooperation to honor all of this work together.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Minister. You've got a second. Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, you said there was certainly no fiasco. That's your political assessment. But you said that there is no immaturity. Obviously, you are questioning the regional document which you have answered and which says that for all the above reasons the project is considered immature. That's what the regional decision says. You also said it was a complex and multifactorial task - it is well known, Minister - and there is a need for procedures. I mean, they had to start the life-threatening measures, they never started. I would remind you that 30% of the previous study was prepared on your days. Of course, then we need to move on to all the procedures to promote the monument to make it a visit. So you said that you were trying to exhaust all possibilities. I ask: are these services which have been working on this study not the same services, Minister, which have, for years now and in the previous Community frameworks, drawn up the relevant documents with the necessary coordination of all the services involved, as you well know, on the basis of the Community prerequisites and the Community protocol? Wasn't these the same services that brought a thousand and three hundred nine works, Minister, over the previous years, EUR 2.3 billion? What has suddenly changed in these services and five technical bulletins over your days have been rejected? That's why, Minister, is there any responsibility? I imagine that coordination is a political responsibility for all these services. I ask: Who has this responsibility? Do you have it? Does the Secretary-General of the Ministry have it, which I imagine is responsible for coordinating these projects? I would also like to ask you, when you came to Amphipolis on 11 May 2017 and announced to the Serbian people and to all the neighbouring prefectures who were thirsty to hear two and a half years after a positive news that this project will finally go ahead, that something will happen, you did not know that there is immature study? Because they also say the articles that your Secretary-General, Mrs Vlazaki, was communicating with the district manager of Central Macedonia and with you, of course, and assured you that everything is going well. So, did you know that the project is being cancerd? Also, the publications say that your region had informed you that the studies have a problem and are immature. So, what did you do for all this? So you waited for the last minute to reject the project? Madam Secretary, isn't that a management failure? Excuse me, but you remember the previous time question I had asked you about taking on your duties, that I had really expressed my satisfaction that you, a man of culture, are taking over the leadership of this ministry and I was really very optimistic that you would give your best self for the promotion of this irradiated monument of Amphipolis. However, Minister, the whole course of the two-and-a-half years, of course, is really going to leave us very frustrated now. You understand that this devaluation, which is depreciating the monument of Amphipolis and all in general, can no longer be tolerated, Minister. In fact, you did not answer your prototype to the key question I asked you: Do you guarantee at this time that we will be able to prevent the deadline of 31 December 2017, or will it be lost? Because he will be lost, Minister. The third Macedonian winter, the heavy one, will fall to Amphipolis, with all that that means to save the monument and to abandon it to the weather and all that. So you guarantee us that it will not be lost - which will be lost - because in the most optimistic scenario that the dossier will be adopted by December, but by April on the associated preparations is lost in winter. Do you guarantee that he won't be lost all 2018?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u8	Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u9	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Minister, there has been a systematic abandonment for two and a half years. Not to mention the remembrances of Mr Xydakis, your predecessor, that the excavation of Amphipolis is like all other excavations, that it is Hollywood, that over-funding and such truly inaccurate statements have been given. I want you to tell me, among other things, about the major issue of the analysis of the bones of the dead and the degree of affinity of the dead? Because this is extremely important for the history and value of the monument.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u10	My colleague, we're in five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u11	I'm closing, Mr. President. Madam Minister, because the people of Serres and, of course, the citizens of all Macedonia are no longer indulging in this monument. They ask for his cultural, tourist and whatever this means to the economy of the region and country in general. Specific answers to Amphipolis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u12	There's no indifference. There's no blemish. All these years, and the previous and the latter, work, studies and protection of the monument is constantly being done and the monument is revealed, so that it does not suffer worse damage than weather phenomena. There have already been geostatic and solid studies, there have been solid works, maintenance of the triumph of the third hall, studies have been carried out on earthworks and work on rainwater, in order to avoid harming the monument and expose it to the waters that accumulate where it is dug, around the monument. You said about the technical bulletin that it was immature. Our service doesn't think it's a matter of immaturity. Considers that there is a need to clarify certain points that are always necessary, as is the case with all the other regions of Greece, always because the new NSRPs require much more specific clarification, there is a cooperation. Obviously, there has been a lack of communication and early contact, and that is why this rejection has been created. However, we are interested in moving this brilliant work forward together, in cooperation, because only in cooperation can we achieve it. There is a historic role that we all understand and above all the services of the Ministry of Culture and the same people who yourself admitted that they have done these brilliant works. How, then, could these same people fail so painfully? We are interested in achieving the same thing with Amphipolis. As far as the date of the monument is concerned, we are waiting for the scientific testimony of the excavation. From there we will conclude the date of the monument. Thank you, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u13	We continue with the third with No. 1326/23-8-2017 timely question of the first cycle of the Athens MP of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Foreign Minister on the subject: “The refusal of the Minister of Justice to take part in the invitation of Estonia to participate in the General Secretariat of Human Rights in a conference entitled “The legacy in the 21st century of the crimes committed by the Communist regimes”. The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, George Katrugalos, responds. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, there has been an initiative by the Estonian Presidency in the European Union, the Ministry of Justice of that country, under the title I mentioned in my timely question. General secretariats were invited to condemn the crimes of communist regimes. As I mention it in the title of my topical question, that was the particular event. I have been the State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, I have been and I have been in charge for many years in charge of the Democratic Partnership. I can ask the questions that I ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, rarely but in a way which can only be answered on this subject, rather than generic and generic. In particular, Minister, I ask, first of all, whether it is a common place that foreign policy issues are not matters relating to votes, votes and voting. Firstly, I think it is, and all the political forces that have been engaged in government work are well aware of that. An action that brings you one vote on the inside will cause you trouble abroad possibly. So you look at these and weigh them and be serious. Secondly, do we denounce by definition all the "calls" as did a specific journalist in the NEA days ago? So, I'm leaving the loan title, it's another man, and we're going to our own phrases - we condemn the logic of a competition for who has done less or more crimes and who is a good or bad criminal? Apparently, yes. And this must be at least a given of our political system. Thirdly, the matter was dealt with by the Greek Minister for Justice in the way we all know. But we know - and this is the third presumption, Mr Katrugale - that in our foreign policy, foreign policy, a minister and a government have many opportunities to express their reservations about an initiative, too many. It's not a process to express your reservations. There's a lot of them. You can, for example, join a secretary-general, participate even more politically relaxed with an ambassador. But you have the ability to abstain, you don't. The letter opening another topic - that is to say it opens up the issue of comparing Nazism and Stalinism - is an incomprehensible attitude because it creates problems without helping anywhere. Unless, of course, the help has to do with pins. But I would ask you to condemn this from the start. My question is one: does this letter of the Minister of Justice express Greek foreign policy? Is there such a political attitude - not by a Member here or there, by MPs or by an irresponsible minister - expressed by a country's Prime Minister, a diplomatic office of Prime Minister and a Greek Foreign Minister? And to make it simpler: Mr. Kotzias today is in Skopje. But I wanted Mr Kotzias to be here, the Foreign Minister himself, not his deputy. The question could, of course, be answered next week. I do not raise this issue for major political influences. This is a strategic issue for Greek foreign policy. Would Mr Kotzias sign the letter of the Minister of Justice? He's signing her here and now today? You are obliged to answer that question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. The President has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Colleague, the facts are stubborn and the story is not rewritten. Anti-Communism was a hate ideology that divided Greek society until the fall of the dictatorship. It had been abandoned by all political forces, even those who defined their political line on the basis of this orientation. And it is extremely - not just dangerous - to make an attempt to return to the country's political life. Are the official positions of the Greek Government on your specific questions? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The second question concerns whether similar positions have ever been expressed in this way by a Foreign Minister, as you have said. I read a statement by the former Minister of Foreign Affairs and President of PASOK, Evangelos Venizelos, on 22-1-2006: "It is unthinkable to attempt to simulate the phenomena of Naziism or fascism or the phenomena of the authoritarian dictatorships of southern Europe with communism as a system of thought and as a system of social and political organization". Indicatively on the same date Mr Laliotis writes: "The matching, equation and netting of fascism and Nazism, with the ideas, the route, tradition and worthy load of Communist parties, as well as the evolution of state structures and regimes of existing socialism, are a conscious attempt to overthrow historical data and historical truths, without memory, sensitivity and morality, without knowledge of undeniable truths". And Mr Laliotis called on Europe not to mislead anti-communism as a ghost, so that the cold war theories about 'black' and'red fascism, who liked the victims to be found. And he defined this policy, those who want to bring these unscrupulous theories back to the fore, as new anti-communism and new European macarath. But did they only call these representatives of PASOK? Two attempts were made at European level to identify communism with fascism. The first in 2006 in the Council of Europe. It did not gather the necessary statutory majority, it was not voted by any Greek MEP. Not only by the representatives of PASOK who voted against, but by a Greek MP! In 2009, we have a European Parliament resolution that was voted on. Not voted, voted against by PASOK. It was not voted, with a statement in detail and very convincing by Mr Varvitsiotis, from the New Democracy. It was voted for by the MEP reasonably and by an individual Member of the New Democracy who has not had a political future since. The second answer, therefore, is that the views you are now supporting, never so far have been supported by politicians of the Democratic Party, but also by the entire Greek political world after the fall of the dictatorship, which was an important institutional acquis, precisely because it was putting an end to the ideology of hatred and the division of Greek society. Your third question is how can the damage caused to the interests of the country be mitigated? Yesterday the Estonian Justice Minister replied. I read the first sentence to you: "Dear Stavros, I am sorry for your decision, but I appreciate your explanation of your refusal to attend and I can explain my arguments for my disagreement." And keep going. I will not apologize to that letter, but it is certainly not contradictory. It shows that we have a significant divergence in the perception of things with the government of one other, a friendly country. Is it Estonia's view that I was currently voting for a majority in the European Union? Only eight of the twenty-seven countries were present at the conference what the Minister for Justice called, not even all former socialist ones. Neither Bulgaria nor Romania nor Slovenia were present. These views, therefore, are still the tip of the spear of the extreme right-wing Europe. For historical reasons some countries adopt them. In no case are they majority. In no case do they echo the Greek experiences, because as the President of the Greek Chamber of Deputies said, saying that the man himself with capitalism is, he is not a communist, "Everyone in Greece knows that the "his" and the battalists collaborated with the Germans." And he says the man as a Jew, "These are the ones who killed the Jews, and they are the leftists who fought the Germans and tried, as far as they could, to save the Jews." And I'm closing...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u17	Minister, you have a second. You know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u18	Yeah, it's my last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u19	Let's go to six minutes, though. Understand? It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u20	I reserve my remarks. It's a small phrase. How did Mr Laliotis characterize those who restore these issues? In the same statement, which I will obviously table in the Minutes, they were called 'insurmountables' and 'alazons', 'ammones' and 'infidels'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u21	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, the Association of Natural Greeks for Gavroglou and Syriza - ANEL has announced 'Greek!'. "God" exclaims the entire Greek society for what they do, especially when compared to what they said and until recently. 'God', Minister, and what you say today. I tried to keep the matter where he deserves it, as related to Greek foreign policy. And you know very well why you are participating in the ERM that we are participating in, what our attitude to foreign policy matters is in the two and a half years that you have been ruling. So are you coming to tell me this nonsense? Are you coming to tell me these words here? Did I talk to you like that? I asked you specific questions and tried to secure them here - and with your agreement - common principles, common foreign policy areas. What are you talking about? I asked you whether it is the official attitude of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and you should give me specific examples. I told you, no MPs. You have not mentioned a single foreign minister of the country and of course not even Mr Kotzias.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u23	Wasn't Mr. Venizelos a Foreign Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u24	In 2006, he was a Member of the Opposition. And the issue in the Council of Europe was not about crimes, the murder of twenty-two thousand Polish officers in the Cain forest, Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u25	Should you sit there, Mr. Loverdos?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u26	I speak now and you listen, as I've been listening to you for six minutes. ...which the Soviet Union on Gorbachev recognised as a crime, as a crime, and which is a tribute year and a tribute year today for many years, since the 1980s and 1990s.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u27	Along with the CIA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u28	What I asked you to do is tell me a Greek Foreign Minister. No one mentioned nor yours, Mr. Kotzia. And you played a puncture game - this game that Mr. Kourublis and many like you play - against a party that these topics have made clear and its announcements are now clear. Read them. You will not play in cloudy waters because our waters are clean. Yours are bolted! So we can get to the point now. Only if anyone's blind can he say what the Minister says today. What if it is the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Tsipras and the Prime Minister's Diplomatic Office? Greece's position is opportune, that it does not condemn crimes or that it 'calls criminals'. It will change in a very short time when the elections are held and you will fall. You did not mention to me, however, a Greek Foreign Minister or a Greek Prime Minister or an announcement from the diplomatic office of Prime Minister or the diplomatic office of the Minister of Foreign Affairs with such content. None. And I repeat, not even Mr. Kotzia. As I told you, this is not a question of expressing reservations. You can express yourself. I gave you two, three examples. Even reservation heavy, expressed by abstention, you could do. The question is the letter sent by the Greek Government, which does not know, of course, the foreign policy issues or the methods of foreign policy. And he opened up the topics for which he received an answer from the very reality - there is a day that the European Union characterized as a "day of memory" and the Commission was also expressed on it - by the Estonian Minister, who if you read what you read from his letter, it means you need - as George Scampardon wrote, and they are loans, and this expression - 'the blindness collision', Minister. And wickedness? Oh, no. You are not in pain, because the following phrases by the Minister of Estonia is a trick to the Greek Minister. He's a dork. It's a tough answer. And also, apart from what is official policy issues, your inability to take a stand for a crime, is a lack of principles, it is a clear lack of principles, it is an effort of unwritten votes that you lose to your left and you want to collect them, it is incoherent and lack of coordination at the level of government policy and you also needed lies to improve the influence of your political speech. You have also used the means of government propaganda to say that they are eight participants. Nineteen were the participants. And make sure that the "Athens News Agency" is more serious than what you say. It creates false data.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Loverdo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u30	Minister, I don't know if things made things worse or better the answer you give me today. This will be judged by the end of your dentistry. One thing I know: the country needs a responsible foreign policy. With scams, with vulgars, with attempted to catch votes in blurred waters, foreign policy is not possible. And you can rest assured that what damage you do at the level of the country's international relations and its European issues will all be corrected. It's temporary mistakes. They are the mistakes made by your presence as SYRIZA - ANEL in the field of the management of the issues of Greece and Hellenism. Your end will come and this will come soon, Minister. I'm sorry for the answer you gave me. You didn't stand for a second in my questions. And I urge you, now, in your dentistry, before you say anything else, to give me a phrase by a Greek Foreign Minister or Prime Minister in the direction of the letter...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, it is your right to consider the statement made by the former Foreign Minister and former President of PASOK, Mr Venizelos, to read as nonsense. I'll start my denture with another phrase from this well-known, raw placement of Mr. Laliotis...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u33	Again, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u34	The mandolin... who learned the story from the mandolin.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u35	...which called those who at the time described "unbelievers", "alakants", "memorandums" and "unbelievers" do not repeat theories that allow anti-communism to be deceived above Europe as a ghost, so that the cold war theories about "black" and "red" fascism, which assimilate females to victims, could not be found. I repeat that these were the common place of Greek political culture until you recently appeared some of the area of the extreme centre and the extreme right that emigrated to New Democracy. The question is, why did that happen? The answer to the new Republic is clear: because we have had a gradual transformation of this party since the period of governance of Samaras and, in particular, accelerated since the relocation of the known policies by the LAOS. Things are more interesting as far as what I call the'stress Center' is concerned. How is it possible to have a PASOK MEP who regains classically bankrupt arguments, which we heard in the 1950s in the trials, invoking her grandfather's massacre, who then confessed that she had no blood kinship with her? How is it justified that a executive who was in the executive committee of the move made by you, Mr. Loverdos, by the RICSY, publishes articles saying that the Macronissus is the construction of the Communists or that celebrates Grammos? This rhetoric we knew from these benches, where it makes sense to exist. But how does he migrate to your own seats? Obviously some of you are preparing your transition to the New Democracy of Mr Mitsotakis, which has already been mutated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u36	You're a punk!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u37	So it wasn't for foreign policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u38	You're a punk! I would like the floor on personal grounds, Mr President. That's political aberration.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u39	Your question wasn't about foreign policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Loverdo, let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u41	Your question wasn't about foreign policy. Your question actually shows where the representatives of the 'extreme Centre' are going. Of course, not everyone's going there. Mr. Laliotis, who said what he said at the time, says now. The Democratic Reconciliation has a stigma. This stigma is not given by Grammus, the Macronessus, nor by anti-communism. And indeed those who are identified with him also identify their own personal future and the future of their resignation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u44	You know very well that there are no such interventions in the parliamentary control process.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u45	I know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u46	But I too realise that since you heard you were on record, you want to have a personal answer. But please don't get over this minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u47	I will try, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u48	No, don't try. Don't get over it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u49	Give me the opportunity to give an answer to what has been heard. The Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs insisted on the data relating to the attitude of Evangelos Venizelos in 2006 within the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u50	Is that personal, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u51	On staff, Mr Colleague, please very much!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u52	I'll tell you what he's going to do. It attempts to condemn it - which did not pass by if I remember correctly and was also condemned by many - a specific ideological regime to transfer it to the field of crimes, to transfer it from 2006 to 2009, which the European Parliament condemned on another subject. Mr. Venizelos was clear about what he said and what he supported at the time and now and...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Colleague, on staff, please in private...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u54	Our announcements...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u55	...because we've opened an issue that's not right!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u56	However, all of this has been mentioned - and I would stress this on staff - in order to support arguments of political atrocity on a question that was targeted at our foreign policy. And he did it from his first position, without me having made any mention of it if I spoke first. And he came to the end, upset by the weakness of his arguments and the lack of arguments, to start talking to a degree of higher political atrocity about transcriptions. I, sir - and I am referring to you where you have been a PASOK minister for many years - have made statements and the time of my conflict with the political area, that from my place I will leave horizontally, I have made statements which bind me for all my life. You who are flexible, you whose waist is flexible, you who have no bones, but you are a mollusc, which is politically wandering from here and there, you may say these, but keep them for yourself. For me, be very careful. I'm not gonna let you...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u57	You answered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u58	In order to maintain any level that has remained in the capacity of our previous acquaintance, I would like to give you the opportunity to apologise. If you don't, for me you no longer exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Loverdo, another hour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u61	Minister, this cannot go on. You realize I have a role here. With great comfort and tolerance I gave you the opportunity to speak. And I would like to say something - I would say it later - on the occasion of your request to answer now. The Rules of Procedure - not by accident, you know very well - gives a total of eleven minutes to the question and the answer. So far, the two questions that have been asked have reached about one hour, fifty minutes. It can't go on. Excuse me very much, please help the Bureau. I don't belong to those who close microphones, but I can't help it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, I will ask you something and I may not insist on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u64	I have made some political determinations on which you have given the floor on personal grounds to my colleague. For the punctuality statements, on a political bullshit, on a flexible middle, do you think there is no staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u65	I think there is, Minister. You can understand the difficulty that the Bureau has. We are doing parliamentary control and talks are being made. Help me, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, I do not understand your one-sided difficulty very well. But anyway, I wanted to tell you that I'm not going to talk about...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u67	Now what is this? Is it an observation on the substance, so I can understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u68	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u69	Who's the one-sided? The twenty minutes you spoke about instead of three?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u70	Good, Mr President, I do not dispute with you, nor with my colleague. Obviously, whoever is placed under the conditions laid down has already been identified in the eyes and ears of those who have heard us. Answers are superfluous. He determined himself by the characterizations he addressed to me. I don't need to add anything else.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u71	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the sixteenth question under number 1179/6-7-2017 is a topical question from the Attica Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulou, Minister for the Interior, on the protection and safety of the people of Acharnes. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Nikolaos Toskas. Please, Your Honor, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President, although I do not want you to exhaust your tolerance to the previous question. It is not for the child who was lost early June in Menidi at the school celebration, it is also for the lives of many people who have been troubled for years. This death of young Marios in Menidio last June marked the reinitialisation - because many attempts have been made to deal with crime in the historic municipality of Acharnes, a city with many possibilities but also with many problems. Minister, I submitted this question to you a few days after the death of young Marios. Before this tragic event that lamented the Panhellenic, further questions and my own and other colleagues had taken precedence. Because as I said to the Bureau, Minister, the problem is a timeless and difficult one and you know it very well. I am opposed to the fact that you, like other colleagues, have long been answering me. I am pleased that you are here, and I would like to see it updated a little while ago, because I know very well, like everyone, that on 18 June you have announced a series of measures. These measures also concerned the repression and prevention through the social integration of the Roma. You know very well, Minister, that the problem is so great that people have often taken the situation into their hands, not in the form of self-righteousness. And today, the anti-crime association in the Municipality of Acharnon is working closely - and it will be told by ELAS officials - I would say that he is conducting a kind of robbery, Minister, giving the information he needs so that the men and women of ELAS can do their job. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But my question is beyond that. I expect you to give me information on the impact, on the actions themselves, and I expect you to submit these and the Greek Parliament and the inhabitants of the region to know them, but I ask the central question that was in my original written question and remains. What is the overall plan to tackle crime in the Municipality of Acharnon and in the West Attica region? I ask, Mr President, why do you know that, many times, drug trafficking can leave the Athens area where you are elected, and move away elsewhere, and it is not the problem of taking it from Athens to Menidi and from Menidi to Zefri and from Zefri to Liosia and going for a walk? The Minister is aware of this very well and I expect specific answers to that. I also know - and I want to give you information on this - that, for example, in the region of Auliza, there has been - as I know from the people - a reduction in incidents and a reduction in trafficking and to a very competent extent. But in other areas such as Agia Sotiri where we have camps and obviously it is much harder for ELAS's work, we do not have a corresponding reduction, and I would like to tell you that, however, the days are, we have reinitiated the shooting. In fact, in the 15th century they continued after the intervention of the Greek Police and the soundproofing that is the lasson and the shooting that is the major. Because all that needs is a plan, I think it's time to present it. I will call on you at this step in this House, together with your colleagues in the government, and with the relevant Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Public Order, to present a comprehensive plan. With your tolerance, Mr President, I shall mention another example.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u73	Could you keep it for your dentistry?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u74	All right, Mr. President. I'll hear the Minister's answer, and then I'll go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mrs Christophilopoulou. Mr Nikolaos Toskas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Mrs Christophilopoulou. I'm glad you recognize that the problem is big and time-consuming. I think it would be commonplace, at the moment to say that after the 1990s these people came down to find a better place, to find their place - most of them of them of Greek origin - came and turned, stacked - I would say - without any prospects, without any plan in the areas of Western Attica. Then what happened during the Olympic Games? What happened when some previous government ministers pushed drug addicts, these sick people, in these areas, in order not to be in the center of Athens? I also think that we all recognise how difficult - and not only with police measures - situations of impoverishment and situations of great violence and crime like those which have accumulated for many decades in the large West Attica and which may not be the case anywhere in Greece. In order not to be long on the situation that exists and is well known to all of us, I would like to say that the measures announced and implemented - because some people thought they were measures of the day or of the week or of the first month after the tragic incident that took place in June with the child who lost his life - we committed ourselves to founding in West Attica, based in the Municipality of Acharnon, West Attica. Secondly, we committed ourselves to making targeted continuous actions with special forces, OPECE, OPTA, "DIA" etc. the police, in order to control infraction and crime. You got it. It's still going on. It's continuing. Thirdly, we have committed ourselves to strengthening the services with police personnel, which has already been made at the Acharon Police Departments, Gender, Zefyrios, Neupro, Megaron and will also be strengthened by other staff after graduation from the schools. Fourthly, we have committed ourselves that we would not stop and that would not be temporary, which is what happened. I would like to mention a few figures, because the numbers are important, and it is not a communication policy, as you say in your question. These are practical measures, which have been initiated not since June but since March. Three thousand two hundred twenty - seven general and special actions and a hundred twelve outrages. Fifty thousand people were checked. Sixteen thousand were prayed. A thousand five hundred were arrested until yesterday. When had similar actions been taken? When did such operations take place? I think you recognised what you said before that the situation has changed. Indeed, it cannot only be changed by police measures, but, as a start, we have started with the police measures which are very effective and then, if necessary, I will refer to individual operations in areas that they do not dare, not to go to any citizen but not to a police car. If you want, we should also refer to the Camp "Kopta", which was the man of infraction and crime, and to what business combined it became, which no one dared to do from the previous ministers or from the previous police administrations.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Minister. My colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, if I wanted to put party glasses because I challenged - you saw my prototype - the issue does not raise a party, I could talk about the Almondsa fiasco, where SYRIZA, when the Minister was the director of PASOK, played a fat game in Ammondaleza and then went and did a second Amydaleza. So I won't speak in parties. It's not just the kid who's gone. I say again that this is a very serious matter for us to go to parties. I will not imitate you, Minister. I will simply tell you that there have been other times that there have been the same thing, which has indeed increased patrols - and that is why I am referring to my question - there has been a small improvement and then this has been left. Because your decision concerns a year, what will happen after this year, Minister? What will be the permanent response plan? Don't tell me about "God" because you've caused me. The "Kotta" is well held, Minister, and if you don't know it, go and ask. Go and ask the department there. Go and ask the inhabitants of the Acharnes. Go and ask the club. Go and ask your executives. He's keeping 'Kotta' well, Minister. The question is to the government. Why doesn't the "Chot" close? I will not wear the glasses that the Minister wants, who has worn them well again. After the 1999 catastrophic earthquake, a lot of incomplete efforts have been made. Inside "Kopta" there are various circuits and mafias associated with other circuits and mafias, involving the trafficking of arms, cigarettes and unfortunately also traficking, robberies, any kind of invasion and crime. You've been doing business at the "Koptas". Turn off the "Happy"! The "Kotta" is well held, Minister. This needs a plan, an agreement with your colleagues in the government is needed, an interministerial plan is needed. I also threw you the balls of support from other parties and from the opposition, because we do not put backups every time to support what suits us. I told you to come to the Committee on Social Affairs and the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs to see them together. Why did you - not you, your colleagues, and rightly - talk about social inclusion measures, follow-up to what has already been done by the PASOK governments. I'm up against it. But you know very well that there are fellow Romans who are not even registered in the state. You know very well that these people, our fellow citizens, the Roma, have not been registered, they have no identity, they have no AMCA, we cannot find them and integrate them and help them and support them. This thing will be as long as a comprehensive plan is not drawn up, which will suspend the flow of money around the actions I have said, and that is why I ask you again and you are not answering me. Because this has happened before, Minister. Now we've had the child's loss. Because before my questions, after Mrs. Gennimata's own visit and the meeting with the Criminal Association, I came back. You responded like everything was fine. It's the tragic event and it's intensified. But that is not about parties and colours. It is a Greek phenomenon and we have lived through the safety belts. When tragic accidents occur, we all remember and say we wear a belt and then we leave it. It is about social attitudes and perceptions, and this institution of Parliament must try to shape new kinds of attitudes and perceptions. That is why, Minister, please give me an answer. Is that a plan? What are you going to do about 'Kotta'? Will you turn it off? You will have our full support. And thirdly, will you be able to suspend it, not just for a year, but for the intercession? What it's gonna take for that. I repeat that we, at least as a Democratic Integration, will stand very positively to any such strategy that you have developed us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting of the House's lower Western theories is being attended by the Chairman of the Committee on Current Affairs of the Council of Europe's Local and Regional Authorities, Mrs Gabriel Neff, the Head of the Directorate for Legislative Activities of the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe, Mr Renade Zigud and the Regional Administrator of Attica, Mrs Rena Douru. Dear friends and dear Mrs. District Director, welcome to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause]] Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. I, of course, have been trained to be cooler and to answer numbers. There were businesses in both Khota and Aspropyrgos, if you remember, with large cigarette smuggling factories and the other businesses where very large quantities of ethyl alcohol were confiscated, which fuelled areas with illegal and dangerous alcohol. I could refer to a whole package of businesses, so that Mrs Christophilopoulou does not say we do not have a plan. I could speak for a long time, mentioning the enormous efforts made by police authorities, in an environment that was not used to being controlled, in an environment where little children in a very large percentage are not going to school - and that is not a new phenomenon - in an environment where people used to be engaged in traditional professional dealings and some of them have, for reasons that are not just social - because social reasons are not neutral and aphatic, Mrs Christophilopoulou, drugs and arms trade. They've become huge business. I know that this is not enough, however intense, intensive and effective they are. I say it again that only police operations, only police repression and checks are enough. It is a matter which must concern all sides of Parliament and the government in order to take the steps they need to stop being the region and the area out of control and an area of problematic and criminal activity. It is true that many steps must be taken and we are in this direction. We, as far as police operations are concerned, are working in a system and these results are known to the residents, without that being a paradise place and there is no intrusion. It has, however, appeared that even on the issue of noise pollution, not major crime, there have been huge differences and the world has recognized it. Now, if some people don't see it, I'm sorry. There's nothing I can do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the seventeenth question is followed by the number 1184/7-7-2017 of the Second Cycle of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr Anthony Gregos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The desecration of the sacred monument of the Unknown Soldier, as a result of constant impunity". Mr. Toskas will answer that question in time. Mr. Gregos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. This question was tabled on 7-7-2017. Now, of course, it is not timely. But it will certainly be timely after a while, because these phenomena - as the question says - are continuous and repeated. Once again we have seen this tragic phenomenon. It is a phenomenon that brutally offends all of us Greeks, that is to say, the known gangs of the parastates to desecrate the monument of the Unknown Soldier, and not only that, but that the lives of the euphoria and the policemen who were there also risk. And as I speak about the police forces, say the action of these gangs was known. The police forces, as far as we know, have not made any arrests. I would like to say again that this question was raised on 7 July and to warn us that what the Minister will answer us may have to tell us again on a next question. We have tabled, as Members of the Golden Dawn, too many questions relating to matters of responsibility of the Minister and we expect many answers. Let us say that such phenomena are presented only in Greece. There's nowhere else else in the world. Every weekend we see in Exarches burning the area. It's very likely that this weekend too. They'll be in the Constitution, as I said before. We have contacted and reported by many police officers, simple police officers, senior and senior officers, who confirm that we have been given an explicit mandate not to make arrests with regard to such phenomena but even worse. And to tell you that with a very simple - childish - I would characterize him - design could these disgusting subjects be arrested and brought to justice. That is what we demand, and that is what the Greek people demand. And not only should they be brought to justice, but we should finally take them off the hoods, see who they are, and who they are, and who they are their names. Although you know them too, we know them too, they all know them. We are waiting for the answer with great interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr Colleague, and the consistency in time. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u84	And I will be consistent in time, Mr President. Let me remind you that during the afternoon of May 18 in the center of Athens, on the occasion of the debate on the multi-brand plan discussed in Parliament, planned trade and professional meetings were held in Syntagma Square and Omonoia Square. At the same time, however, anarchist organizations were held in front of the Unknown Soldier here in the Constitution. There have been strong police measures to prevent incidents and all the operational measures required have been taken. A person was arrested who had attacked and found himself in his backpack an axe, a boar. That person was brought to the attention of the Public Prosecutor and appointed at the outset on 1 June and then on 27 November and his detention was brought to the attention of the Public Prosecutor. With regard to the other damage, you say, a preliminary investigation shall be carried out. And anyway, it's unacceptable to allow speculation that there are orders for no arrest of people who are being violated. No such order has been given. On the contrary, there are barely strict directives and orders for the arrest of those who are being violated. Of course, there are cases in which it is not possible, sometimes, when a large number of people are gathered, to arrest everyone who is being violated. These problems are not new in our country. The police are doing everything they can and have the freedom under the law to apply exactly what is foreseen by the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister spoke of an arrest. It's very little of an arrest. In addition, these phenomena, as I have said before, are common. And it's not just damage. We are talking here about the desecration of the monument of the fallen heroes, it is much more than that. However, I would also like to make a few proposals for dealing with such incidents. You could have watched this gang action from the beginning to the end, that is, from their event to their refuge to the known yachts. You can also monitor them from the well-known site of the anti-civil space, where all of their criminal activities are posted. Let us say here that in Germany this website was closed by the authorities and the managers were arrested. I do not believe that this will happen here in Greece. Also, the monitoring of such persons is not done as they used to, or even via common telephones. Other methods of communication of these crimes are used. You can search and find them. I also asked you a question about the re-establishment of Group D, which was very effective and I expect the relevant answer. Another proposal is that we would like the head of order to have more explicit orders so that arrests can be immediately taken. These special police units should also be equipped with other means, such as water pumps, plastic bullets - and a little is for them - chromospheres and many other special units in other European countries. Cooperation with other agencies, and in particular the Prosecutor of an Electronic Crime. From there you will achieve too much, if and if you want. And above all, Mr Minister, there is a need for political will, but I do not think you have, your actions demonstrate this. The safety of citizens and respect for monuments and history is a sacred obligation for us and for the Greek people. We expect to see what you will do from now on. We also have the exhibition of Thessaloniki. There will of course not be any incidents in the environment because there will be too many special forces to protect the Prime Minister, but elsewhere, in the region, these criminal acts will continue. I repeat, we will expect you to answer the same question again when there are incidents in both the Constitution and the Exarches and throughout the country, because we believe that you do not want to fight this phenomenon. And it is not just that we say it, that the Greek people believe, that you suffer - I could say that - if not support these criminal gangs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u88	I see you're sure there'll be episodes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u89	It happens every week.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u90	I don't know if you have any information on this matter. Please, if you have information, give it to the competent authorities. Secondly, I see that you are proposing measures of greater violence, greater cruelty, but I would remind you that we have a democratic society here with coordinate rules. As far as the measures taken by the German Government are concerned, you can enter the internet and see what happened in Hamburg and how much has happened. Thirdly and finally, I never expected me to be in my position, now at the age of my age, to have my lessons of patriotic perception and service of national interests after so many years of serving in remote areas and sensitive points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Minister. Here is the eighteenth eighth under number 1190/11-7-2017, a topical question for the second cycle of the MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Karagiannides to the Minister of the Interior, concerning the action of the "Anodad Maiandrian Nationalists" and the "Combat 18 Hellas" in Menidios. The Deputy Minister of Interior will answer Mr Nikolaos Toskas. Mr. Karayannides, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this question follows on from a written question that was made in February 2015. But it comes as timely and concerns the events that took place in Minidi after the murder of the 11-year-old student from two Nazi groups, who even feel so safe and arrogant that advertise their violations on the Internet. And it comes now because it is a phenomenon that we didn't know in 2017, but it starts from 2014-2015, and we don't see any evolution in two groups that are clearly violating, in two groups that are criminal, two groups that are Nazi and two groups that are actually threatening those who consider their enemies. I believe that in a way we must control not just those groups, how they function and what they do, but they must be arrested and brought to justice, because two houses were burned in the House. There have been incidents and these groups have advertised their action as a response to the left or the Greek state because they do not take the necessary actions. That is, self - invoked punishments of things that they should not even engage in. Because these Nazi groups are in the smuggling and selling protection, which we have also known from other Nazi organisations. The most dangerous of this story, of course, is the following: After the trial, which exists until now, the Golden Dawn, the Golden Dawn raids were removed from the street. The gap therefore comes to cover this two neo-nazi organisations. What are we gonna do? How will we control them and when will they be brought to justice?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr Karayannides and you for the time. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr Karayannides, I share your concerns and your concerns and I return to these difficult days of the unjust chaos of the child in Menidi and the reactions that have been in many respects, fair or unfair. Under no circumstances should groups of citizens be lured either into self-actions which are not provided for by any law or much more in actions such as those affecting groups of specific, social groups, which in any case are not to blame. It may be the fault of some people, but not groups, whether racial or other groups of citizens. On this issue, on the question of how we deal with infrastability on the Internet and what happens with the various groups - and I am referring not only to the extreme perceptions of groups to which you refer in your question, but I am speaking more generally - there is a huge problem, not only in the legislation of our own, but also in the legislation of all the countries that have the intention and the will to deal with the various phenomena. You know that there are Google's main providers in America, to which someone needs to be directed to give evidence to be prosecuted from there and beyond, except in two cases, the case of child pornography and the case of lucky games, where there is greater flexibility. It's a big problem. In this case, which has not been released, an investigation was carried out, a preliminary investigation by the Greek Police and has already been submitted to the competent prosecutor. As you can see, we cannot have information, but neither can we talk about it. The question, of course, of monitoring, of the prevention of the various groups that act in this area and have extreme perceptions is an issue which concerns the authorities. As long as there is a law violation, of course the police authorities are concerned and will deal, especially in this area, with an area that has evidence which must worry us and worry us. There has also been reference to the previous question, because it is a combination of many violations. We will continue to deal with these issues. However, there are also difficulties because of international law, but also because of the peculiarity and difficulties in technology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Karayannides, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u96	Minister, I understand the problems and you are right and there is a basis on what you have referred to. But I would like to say: you were not in February 2015, Minister of Public Order, but the question was addressed to the then Minister of Public Order and the Ministry of Justice. The answers, which I was then given to my written question, were what you said to me, that we cannot find evidence, that internet control is difficult, and we do everything we can to move on. There is an interview of these gentlemen on 27-6-2017 and an interview in 2016: In the newspaper "ELLEROS TYPOS" it is a gentleman who sits in his armchair and represents the Autonomous, Self-managed Maiander Nationalists. This gentleman has not been arrested. This gentleman is released and interviews "FLEAR" in the days of the incidents. You know what he's saying? Let me tell you. "The Independent Maiander Nationalists attempt as a military body. We are in uninterrupted war with democracy and those who make it up." These gentlemen have filmed "YouTube" videos and they have been posted and broken the entire Criminal Code. Will he be arrested? There's nothing wrong with that. Can this gentleman, who doesn't have a legitimate organization, circulating guns on the streets, throwing molotovs, burning four anti-fascist roofs on Illion, Corydalus, Peristeri, giving interviews to the newspaper and not doing anything about it? I get the technology. You're right. We can't control it. As far as we can control it, we'll see. But here, they have begun to interview newspapers and advertise their Nazi career and Nazi strategy. What we're asking is for them to be arrested now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Mr. Toska, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u98	Mr Karayannides, I told you that I share your concern, but the law has certain rules. The case, the preliminary investigation has been filed with the competent prosecutor and we expect justice to make its decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Minister. Next, the nineteenth under number 1175/4-7-2017, a topical question by MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “The reduced funding of the Fire Corps poses great problems for the work of firemen and firefighting.” Mr Kattotis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. This question, of course, took place on 4 July, when we were at the heart of the anti-nuclear period. Since then, there have been many developments, if you wish, which have been confirmed, Mr Minister, all that we have been writing in our question about sub-financing, the substitution of fire-fighting equipment, the great shortage of permanent staff, which has been widened because of the transitions of more than seven hundred fire-fighters to 'FRAPORT' and to roads, the great shortages of mechanical and logistical equipment, immobilised fire-fighting vehicles and machinery due to non-conservation and repair, and, of course, the great lack, as we have said, of this House's funds for fire prevention and fire protection. These questions, which we had at the time, Mr Minister, we would like you to answer them even after the anti-nuclear period ends, and you too have an account of the great damage to the natural environment and property of the inhabitants themselves in all parts of Greece. But we also have another report, unfortunately a dead man, the young Muzakiti in the couple, but also several wounded, to whom we wish rapid recovery. So we want you to tell us about these questions that we have raised in our question, if the government really intends to change this situation in the Fire Corps and to take steps to increase funds and, of course, to recruit fire-fighting workers, permanent five-year-olds and contractors.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President, and Mr Kattotis. I will start with the budgets, saying that in 2009, in fact, the budget of the Firehouse was 371 million for pay and pensions and 81 million for consumer and complex expenditure. Today 301 million for pay and pensions and 53 million for consumer and complex expenditure. From that point on, I'm going to be effective. We can compare over time. I am not in a hurry to do that, and that is why you see me skeptical, because I expect to refer to whatever results there are, in whatever burnt areas, when the anti-nuclear period is over. And I must say that despite the end of the summer, the anti-nuclear period ends at the end of September. So, then, I will be able to talk about the effectiveness at that time, and now, in the reaction time of the Firehouse at that time, and now, all that very artificially - and I think we should not be drifting away - have been mentioned by specific channels or by a specific channel with particular emphasis. What's the reality? As I have said before, the Fire Corps may be the most distorting mechanism of the Greek public. It was used for years more as a party mechanism than a part of the state mechanism, which should have had the effectiveness, education, equipment that have modern fire brigades. Let me remind you that aircraft belong to the Department of Defense, but operationally used by the Ministry of Citizen Protection. Most fire-fighting aircraft are in the 1970s and new ones are in the period 2000-2001. I would also remind you that serious training has not taken place. The School of Officials of the Fire Corps - to get together this year - started in Ptolemais, after a thousand sufferings and a thousand efforts of trade unionists and others who wanted the School to be here in Athens to suit themselves and not in an environment that has industrial facilities or other facilities that can facilitate education. So there was a modern school that is an ornament, a pearl of the entire training of the Fire Corps there. Also, the pan-Hellenic tests for the strains of the Fire Corps began last year. However, there are many categories of workers, because they have entered the 'Windows', from 'doors' to 'doors' from everywhere in the Firehouse and not through regular procedures. All these people can't be found on the road. All these people are leaning on us as far as possible. I know your opinions. You would like them to be supported, as we would like them to be supported above and to have their course stabilised, but we do everything we can. For the maintenance of equipment, I mean, there wasn't and we're trying to build an organized maintenance system. There are too many modern vehicles and there are old vehicles that most should have been withdrawn and there are more of them mentioned when they talk about a lack of maintenance. There have been excesses. And what we didn't hear these days, like that some didn't have helmets and clays. Look at the films and videos in the previous years, when firefighters went with short-sighted shirts and T-shirts to wipe out the fire and see how they're going now. There have been too many steps and more will be done. Because then that's when we've had a lot of money in the budget, I'll show you - if you want - where they're going. They went to aircraft leases and helicopters of three hundred sixty-five days a year - we have summer here three hundred and sixty-five days - or they went to six-month leases. It is not just the level of the budget, it is also how this money is made available. So there are many steps that need to be taken. There are different categories of workers, to whom there should be harmonisation rather than homogenisation, as they say, that is to say, the levelling-up of all. You can't do that. We are trying to move in this direction at a time when the means are not as much as in the old days.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u104	Minister, I think we have talked many times about the scale of the problems that fire prevention and fire protection currently have. It's two separate issues. In both cases, unfortunately, there are serious problems which have not been tackled, neither by the previous ones nor by you. That's what you said. You have indeed confirmed that the budget has been reduced. But that creates problems anyway. Where does he cause problems? We have nonexistent forest and rural roads, Minister, so that firefighters can attempt, so that they also lose their lives, such as in the Couple, as I mentioned earlier. 50% of fire-fighting vehicles are over 15 years old. Many of these vehicles are almost useless. You know that, too. You said before about maintenance. Is this about the budget? Of course, it has to do with the budget. Is it not necessary here to have a logistical infrastructure capable of really dealing with this phenomenon? There has to be. Otherwise, we'll say other things. The aeroplanes are damaged as soon as they get up for the flight. Like you said, it's too old. So, today, concrete planning and programming are needed, so that these materials can also be used to stop disasters. There is deforestation of scientific staff that could help coordinate, Minister. There is now a lack of scientific staff, the skill, the specialist who can actually play an important role in coordination, so that we do not have these disasters. Of course, there are all these elements of industrial relations in firefighters working for up to seventy-two hours unstoppable. Here again, there is a matter, Minister, for care, for water and materials such as that necessary for those we call 'heroes'. However, we do not give a damn or reduce the costs for these materials that are necessary to ensure their lives, but also for a working relationship such as that which will enable them to be put on fire, as we say. There are all these issues that cause serious problems. The fire brigade can no longer be weakened. We consider that today these organic positions, the four thousand, which have been abolished, Mr Minister, on account of this anti-nuclear period, but also the previous one, in view of the plan to start from now, need to be covered, bearing in mind that they must be prioritised. We, when we say 'homogenisation', mean that we need a uniform design and programming, so that everyone who has the know-how, whether they are five-year-old or contracted, and regardless of how they entered, Minister - we do not consider this - can really deal with the phenomenon of fire. We believe that, in these matters, the government must change its attitude to the Fire Corps. You're saying it's the most distorting public mechanism. Tell us where this distortion is. You're saying you've started schools now. Again there were schools in the previous period. However, we cannot, Minister, call a distorted public mechanism, however, a body which is actually on fire with all these great shortcomings, which you too confirm through your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, Mr Katsotis, first of all it is wrong - and I think we all understand it - to compare the 2009 budget to the current budget. I wish we had the possibility of the 2009 budget. But, from 2011 to 2017, we have the largest budget for the Fire Corps today. In 2011 we had 343 million. In 2012 alone we had 378 million, because then the five-year obligation firefighters were hired. In 2013 we had 324 million, in 2014 we had 320 million, in 2015 we had 342 million, in 2016 we had 344 million and in 2017 we have 354 million. So we've had the largest budget of the Fire Corps since 2011. From there on, we are working on all these distortions that really exist both in the area of education and in the area of structure and in the field of equipment, slowly improving them and reducing these distortions and weaknesses. As far as next year is concerned, we are now planning what needs to be done within the financial frameworks and the financial possibilities we have. A lot of things can be done. We are in constant consultation with other southern countries. We are in constant contact with other countries that suffer from forest fires to make exchanges on the subject of education, to see what synergies can be made in the field of equipment and fire-fighting aircraft and helicopters. You see that while there is tension in fires that are much less than in previous years - but I told you that I do not want to go on with this, because in front of us we have a period of dangerous fires - we do everything we can. It's a difficult matter. The latest studies that have been made public these days by European houses show that by 2100 two out of three Europeans will have been hit by natural phenomena. We are therefore looking to see what can be done both at European Union level, but, as I said, with other synergies. We are taking steps that have never been taken in the area of regular use in the field of our own powers, but also in the area of management and in the area of better use of our economic potential. It is - I think - an element that no one can blame us for inactivating these issues or not taking care of the staff as long as we can and that we do not take care of the material. Nevertheless, we are prepared to provide you with any other information you want, but also to inform you of what the next steps are that we are planning on firefighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, on this point I would like to inform you of a letter. Mr President, in this letter I would like to inform the House that, between 30-8-2017 and 7-9-2017, I will be out of Greece for personal reasons. He was appreciated, Kostas Vlasis, Member of the Arcadia Parliamentary of the New Democracy.’ Does the House approve of the above-mentioned permit?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u108	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Next, the tenth under number 1291/28-7-2017, a topical question by MP Arcadias of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Manufacture of Provincial Road Paralogues - Tripotama". Mr Skourletis will answer the timely question. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this work and this debate today has at least three, four months' duration. I understand that, many times, regions do not send the data. However, we all have to understand that there are institutions and the Member is addressed to the government and that the Regional Government must respond to these issues. Nevertheless, I would like to tell you about this project, which has a long history and I insisted on it because I think the regions have an obligation to respond to the Greek Parliament. With regard to this road, therefore, “Paralogues - Tripotama”, which is an important road for the region for many years now has dozens of problems, the region in 2011 and the current administration announced that there is a study that has been reformed in the new data, in fact with difficulties and the budget would be about 2,100,000. In 2014, the region itself, since it speaks of this historic project, on 4 March 2014, says that there are money - we go after three years - to make progress. It was precedented by a decision of the Regional Council. I don't want to tell you any more, and I'm teasing you. Today we are in 2017, and I ask you, Minister: what is going to happen and what is the answer of the region and the services in question?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Constantinople, I think that by your question you have raised, in its real dimensions, the issue and there are several cases which, in the end, are important roads in the provincial network, are facing serious problems, as a result of our country's morphology, relating to particular conditions - landslides, morphological particularities, etc. - and there is a need from time to time for intervention so that the inhabitants of these regions are not deprived of the right to move. As you know, self-government B' has its own responsibilities, its own budgets under the Constitution, on the basis of what it has undertaken and on the basis of the role it is called upon to play each time. On the basis of this competence, and with the information it has given us, which may also be in your knowledge, there is a need for appropriate studies in this area to investigate geological and geotechnical conditions so that we can now see what the appropriate measures are. As far as I know, there has been approval on 26-4-2017 for a programme contract of the Region's Technical Project Directorate with the development company "POLOPONSOS S.A." and then there was a decision of the Economic Commission with the number 1423/2017, where it approved the specific amount for the study. The time to prepare the study, which I understand from the context is a two-month period, will show us what exactly we need to do, what exactly we need to do. I understand from your question, but also from my own information - which is, of course, clearly less than your own, since you are a local Member - that we have delays in dealing with the problem and I think that if we have a value for this debate, which we are doing here today, it is to highlight the issue, give the necessary information first of all to the people and create a well-intentioned pressure to speed up the work. The region has its own budget, the state is consistent on the basis of what can be done. It has given the CAP money to the region. I therefore think that the road is open to speeding up procedures to deal with the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u113	Minister, there's a matter. We have prepared a study based on the announcements, which say that in 2011 the study has been completed and we are now conducting a new study. I'm going to ask that this study be submitted to me. Why if we do every two years of studies and in the end do not proceed with this process, what has changed since 2011? However, I would like to tell you this: as you are saying, after too long - three months - this procedure is coming, which is why we had moved forward under the Rules of Procedure on a timely basis. From what I understand, it will begin to take place at the end of 2018. I hope and hope it does not stay in the words, as was the case in previous 2011 and 2014. I, through Parliamentary Control, will ask the region to tell me what the study it has done in 2011, which involved the budget of EUR 2100,000. From what I understand now, the budget is at 800,000. I wish we'd saved them and done that. I will also ask to know what a new study was needed, how much money was paid then and how much money was paid today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr. Constantinople. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u115	Mr Constantinople, I am not in a position to judge whether the 2011 study had to be updated, because in the circumstances of every year, as you can see, there are various damages on the roads. I think, therefore, without being an engineer, but with a general perception, that it may obviously have been necessary to update this study. From there on, I consider your request to be reasonable to give all the evidence, which is there, through the classical parliamentary procedure, about this work. Therefore, your request must be made and we will obviously, as a competent Ministry, request the necessary information and information from the region. What I think we will all agree on and no purpose for anyone should be a brake on the quicker to deal with all the issues, is that the inhabitants of the region have the right to move safely. It's special, the conditions that live. It's a mountainous area. These people finally with their choice and their struggle to stay in these areas contribute to the country's current identity and it is particularly important to support everyday living conditions in this region, but not just in it. I think, therefore, that we are on the same side and have the same aim. Therefore, as a competent Ministry, we will call for as much information as possible and obviously for you to become a society of this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Minister. Subsequent to the first question under number 1327/28-8-2017, the first question of the first cycle of the Piraeus Parliamentary 2nd cycle of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Carakostas Evangelias to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the reopening of the "Children's Stegle-Crossfield". The Minister will answer Mr. Fotou. Mrs Caracosta, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u117	First of all, I should like to welcome you and wish you a good autumn and good courage for the new season. I hope that the ministers who are present and all of us who follow will have it. I would like to raise an issue which has been raised several times in this Chamber, not only from us, but also from previous questions from the Communist Party of Greece, which have more to do with the unpaid workers, about the 'Child House - Crosfeld' in the Municipality of Keratsini - Drapetsonas. This children’s roof is located on a plot of 2,680 sq.m., allocated by the respective municipality of that time in 1931, that is, eighty-five years ago. So this children’s roof has 704 sq.m. Building, has children's joys, has satisfactory infrastructure and operated with a hundred children by 2012, for eighty-one consecutive years he served the families of the Municipality of Keratini - Drapetsonas. I have to say that property belongs to the Foundation of "Children's Housing", which is run by a board of directors, whose members until first were representatives of the Foundation and representatives of the Municipality of Athens, because this child's roof also belongs to other departments providing services for children in other municipalities. On the grounds that they have no money to restore damages that exist in this building, they come to close this institution, such a useful tool for the Municipality of Keratini - Drapetsonas. I know that your side, Mrs Fotio, has been strongly activated in this direction, as I know the intermediate reactions that have been experienced. But this problem has not been solved. In view of a specific proposal from the municipality - I imagine that you will be referring, I am not talking about it over time, I would like to ask what we really can do to reopen this institution, which is so much in need of my region.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Caracosta. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u119	Mrs Karakasta, the question you are asking today is extremely timely. It combines two issues which concern public opinion, Mr President. One is the kindergartens and their lack of them, what we have, what we don't have. The second is the situation of legal persons under private law, the institutions, the electronic platform that we opened yesterday by a Parliament decision, so that we can draw up - by a Parliament decision - the National Register of Legal Persons of Private Law, which includes charitable institutions, charitable organisations, etc., for the first time in Greece. This is an area of some five hundred institutions which are at different speeds, with different problems. The "Child House - Krusfeld" is a typical example. Why? First of all, I agree with all the historical data you have mentioned. You did not mention that the foundation, i.e. the Children's Housing Association, attempted to sell "Children's Housing House" to sell the property. It is to the credit of the then government that refused to sell because it exceeded the institution's objectives. In other words, it was going to be sold to become a mall or I don't know what exactly. Of course, this was beyond the Foundation's objectives. But what did the government not do next? It did not go on to operate the children's roof, while we have such great needs and closed. A hundred kids stayed out in Keracini. So what happened then? The institution immediately came into a bad financial situation and by decision of the then Minister of Health the payment of food from the IKA for insured mothers was interrupted in order to place their children there. The institution stopped paying wages to workers, to workers in fact, and the result is to keep the workers unpaid, to have great turmoil and when we now receive the situation, it is already suspended and ready to close by decision of the institution's second roof, which is the "Argentine-Children's Housing" in Thessios. What do we do? We cannot obviously manage the situation as it is with the administrative board that exists, Mr President, because the management board had these views. That is to say, the House again with legislative arrangements agrees to enter the ministry, with the Minister's decision, and to appoint a new president, who can manage this situation. What happened then, in 2016? So the new management board, in which we appointed two members - the president or the president and two members were appointed by the Municipality of Athens - succeeds, firstly, not to suspend the operation of the "Argentium", and, at least today, the second roof has been saved and children have entered the second roof, which I told you is also threatened with closure. Secondly, the new arrangement, which we made on how mothers are paid to nurseries, for which a great deal of damage was done last year, allowed them to take the feedingstuffs properly and the 'childhouse' every month, with the result that the workers who had already carried out a job, to return to work and to be paid normally. That was the second thing we did. Immediately thereafter, the Ministry awarded the "Children's House", as it had done in the past, because it is a certified institution by the Ministry, with 400,000 euros for 2016, through the state lottery and the Attica Region. This has ensured the repayment of debts to insurers, because all these institutions - most of them - owe insurers and workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u120	Minister, can we talk about the other things in dentistry, why are we six minutes away?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u121	Yes, yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u122	Mrs Karakosta has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u123	It is true that - I said it in my prology - the Ministry's side has become excellent moves. We recognise the enlargement of the board of directors, but I must say that, for a year, we have been fighting for this - it has not been decided - and we have to say it openly here - and with the responsibility of the Municipality of Athens. In other words, it is not possible for a representative of the Municipality of Athens not to attend the councils so that there can be a corresponding majority and a corresponding decision on this matter. Of course I would like to mention here - and I think that this is really the case - that the mayor of Athenians, who also claims to be leader of a political party today, does not care about his absence from the presence of a representative on such a serious issue. I think, therefore, that the Ministry should also take into account - because I recognise the Ministry's willingness to operate this kind of day-to-day station - I really recognise the moves that have been made by children's stations to increase - the proposal from the Municipality of Keratini to take over the costs of repairing what this building needs, given that it has to do with the last five years. So in view of this decision by the board of directors, given the will of the municipality, the Ministry and the president of the institution, I do not understand why the Municipality of Athens does not see to it that it solves this problem immediately, so that this year, even with two - three months' delay, this child station is really so beneficial for my region. It is clear that you are building the institution register, because they must once be cleared up and they must function properly. They must leave the thoughts of the people who run the sales of these institutions. We need to understand that Greece needs social protection and we cannot live with the private sector everywhere. So I, through this question, would like to raise this issue and would like to ask the Minister how we can press the Municipality of Athenians, because now, as I understand from the history we have read and know, given the will of the rest, even without the will of the representatives of the institutions, the majority, the municipality and the ministry can go through and promote the operation of this kind of post and solve a huge problem in my region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Caracosta. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u125	Yeah, it's like you call it. The Municipality of Keratiniu, from the very beginning, has expressed interest and said to us "Lords, we undertake all the repairs of the building", as the "Child House - Kresfeld" said, "we have it closed, because we have no money to fix it". He told us: "We take it, gentlemen, we, if you give us the use. We have a hundred kids to put a lot more in Keratsini, make a municipal station. We don't take it, we don't expropriate it to you. We simply use for this use as well, we do the extensive repairs they need." What responded, before the change made by the parliament to the board of directors, the previous board of directors in mid-2016? No, it's unequivocally not to have it closed. When, following the legislative initiative of this House, the new bureau, the new president immediately came in contact with the Municipality of Keratini. We then prepared with the support of our legal advisers at the Ministry, as well as with the support of the legal advisers of the municipality, which is agreed to grant "Childice - Krosfelad" to the municipality for a certain period of time, without the "Children's House" expropriating its rights and ownership. I'm filing it. It is ready by the President of the Board of Directors and by the Municipality of Keratini. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Mr Theanos Fotio, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] It says in the statute that it ensures the licensing, maintenance, operating costs of the nursery, excluding any other use, rental or concession to third parties. It is quite clear what we have worked out with the President. In other words, the Ministry and the municipality contributed. Unfortunately, the representatives of the institution, who are always on the Board of Directors, are refusing. But what's going on on the road? The road becomes a paradox. One of the two representatives of the Municipality of Athens is negative. I say this 'paraority', because the Municipality of Athens cannot be deprived of an action that is municipal, which is of local government. So it's not only paradoxical, it's also outrageous what's happening. The only argument that was raised was that the Keratsini-Drapetsos municipality is by majority left and therefore the delivery of the facilities after the decade, which we have agreed on in the statutes - that is, for ten years the municipality will have the use - is precarious. Here are purely political games on the back of babies and children. What did we do next? We didn't leave it. [[The end of the speaking time of Mrs. Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] You will give me some time, Mr President, because it is important. The Secretary-General sent a strict letter to the board of directors of the institution, which, on 17 July, says to them: "Be careful, you have responsibilities with what you are doing. Because if the 'Christian House - Krusfeld' continues so, then you are outside your statute' - says the Welfare Secretary-General - 'it is doubtless possible for you to be given a public grant because, given the circumstances, the most suitable solution seems to be to satisfy the mayor's request, etc.'. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister, Mr Theanos Fotio, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] This was in July 2017. The holidays, Mrs. Caracosta, took place in the next few days. I shall conclude by saying this, Mr President, and thank you. I intend, in consultation with the Municipality of Athens, the Regional Association of Municipalities of Attica, the Municipality of Keratini - Drapetsonas and the management of the Foundation, to convene a meeting to ensure that the "Child House - Krospheld" is reopened as quickly as possible, that constructions take precedence, and that the next one, if any, is given a valuable place in Keracini. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the information we have from the Special Secretariat of the President of the Parliament, the following topical questions will not be discussed. The seventh question under number 1288/25-2017 of the Parliamentary Drama of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARMAR Kefalidou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Amphipolis: say good-bye to the NRP you lose", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the MP. The eighth Question No 1290-27-2017 topical question by the Member of Parliament of the Democratic Association of the PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Michael Jelloni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Tumbos Kastas Amphipolis", will not be discussed due to a blockade by the MP. The first, with number 1328/28-8-2017, topical question from the Aetolokarnamia Parliamentary Assembly of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Maria Triantafylos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The unrealistic operation of the Municipal Waste Water Corporation (EEA) Mesogeon" will not be discussed due to lack of competence, because it is responsible for the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. Also, the sixth Question No 1350/28-8-2017 topical question from the Independent MEP II Piraeus Mr.Theodoras Megalonou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Direct necessity for anti-military works in Kythera" will not be discussed due to lack of competence. The Ministry of Interior is responsible. The fourth, with number 1357/29-8-2017, topical question by the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKMKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKMKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKMKMKMKMKKKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMMMMMMMMMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMMMKMKMKMKMKMMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMKMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMKMKMKMKMKMKMMKMKMKMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMMKMKMKMKMKMMMMMMMMKMKM The fifth, with number 1329/28-8-2017, top-circuit question by MP Chios of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Michaelides to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Completion of decorating and fenced area at Chios airport and building the Christos road", will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr. Christos Spirtzis. The fifteenth, under number 1114/29-6-2017, topical question by MP Serres of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DMAR Mr.Michael Jelloni to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The creation of three new toll stations on the road axis Promachonas - Serres - Port of Thessaloniki is disastrous for the Prefecture of Serres", will not be discussed due to an impediment of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr. Christos Spirtzis. The fourteenth under No. 1223/14-2017 topical question of the second Athens Parliamentary of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The World Bank "graves" the Aegean in Turkey, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Ioannis Amanatidis. Also, they will not be discussed as a result of an impediment to the relevant ministers and will not be redefined for discussion the following topical questions: The twelfth with No 1287/25-2017 topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "To abolish the interventions of Mr.4387/2016 in the Statute of the Personnel Insurance Fund of the Commercial Bank (TEPETE)", will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr. Anastasios Petropoulos, due to the parallel exercise of parliamentary duties. The second, with number 1330/28-8-2017, topical question by the Member of Parliament Xanthi of the Radical Left Coalition, Gregorios Stoyannides, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: “Protection of workers and active measures in the event of a debt of accrued earnings”, will not be discussed as a result of a blockade by the Minister of Labour Mr.Achtsioglou. Also, the thirteenth question under No 1263-24-2017 of the Second Circuit of the Greek Communist Party, Mr.Ioannis Delis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "BELLAGIO's redundant worker in Forka, the Regional Unit of Halkidiki", will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister of Labour, Efis Ahtsioglou. The second question, under number 1320/22-8-2017, is the first question of the New Democracy MP Kozanis Georgios Kasapidis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "What is the position of the Greek Government in the ever-enlarged proliferation of the cultivation and movement of mutated agricultural products in the European Union?", will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Gospel Apostle, because it is on a government mission in Zakynthos due to the fires. The fourth question under number 1358/29-8-2017, the first question of the Greek Communist Party, Mr. Sakis Bardalis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Reimbursements of the fireflying oil producers, farmers and beekeepers of Thassos", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Gospelos Apostolos, because it is on a government mission in Zakynthos due to the fires. The ninth under No 1292/31-7-2017 topical question by the MP Argolidas of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARMAR Mr.Ioannis Maniotis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "In desperation Argolida due to three-starts", will not be discussed due to the obstruction of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr.Gegelos Apostolos, because it is on a government mission in Zakynthos due to the fires. The 11th enquiry under No 1264-24-2017 topical question by the Member of the Heracleon Parliament of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMARK KEgeroglou Vassiliou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Increasing the funding of the measure "The Installation of Young Farmers" in order not to remain outside any young person who wishes to deal with agricultural production, a fair examination of objections", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr. Gospelos Apostleos, because it is on a government mission in Zakynthos due to the fires. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-08-31-S1-commons.u127	With the agreement of the House at 11.42' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 1 September 2017, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
