ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's approval from 11-7-2017, the PN's minutes of Tuesday 11 July 2017 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 14 July 2017. ‘A. (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. Under No 1207/11-7-2017, a topical question by MP II Athens, New Democracy, Anna - Michel Asmakopoulou, Minister for Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, on "Measures to prevent and combat cyber attacks". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 1191/11-7-2017 topical question by the Independent MEP Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos to the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information on the subject: "The time has come to declare the PSE the seven television licences, in view of the defence of the public interest". 3. The 1124/4-7-2017 topical question by MP Chania of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Evangelias (Valias) Vagonakis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the institutional protection of the region of Elafonisio Chania. 4. The 1121/3-7-2017 topical question by Evia MP of the People's Association - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Economy and Development, on the subject: "Ziraat Bank's action is intensified after the auctioning of Greek assets in Rhodes". 5. The 1122/3-7-2017 topical question of the First Vice-President of the Parliament and Member of the Dodecanese of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Kremastiou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Electricity cuts in Rhodes during the middle of the heat and tourist season”. 6. The Question No 1036/16-6/2017 by MP Achaias, New Democracy, Jasona Fotella, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Will a solution be finally given to the issue of 'AMIADIT'? We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The fifth will be discussed under No 1210/11-7-2017, a topical question from the F Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the problems of operation and the plan for the closure of the Chronicles of Children's Chronicles of Scaramaga. Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. There is talk of the Treatment of Chronic Diseases by Special Needs in Scaramaga, which has been operating for about twenty-eight years, hosting people with serious disabilities. Today there are twenty-nine people - the possibilities, based on building infrastructure, allow more hospitality - in a building that needs specific interventions in the direction of maintenance, repair, as it has been practically abandoned for many years. At the same time, huge remains the problem of staff shortages, for example in nurses - today there are only twenty - in psychiatrists, child psychiatrists, psychologists and other specialists to meet the needs of the guests. The result of this situation is the poor care of the guests and especially of the personalised care that is necessary for these individuals, while the intensification of work due to the incomplete staff of the employees has a tragic impact on the same because of the serious incidents that are hosted in this unit. On the pretext of the situation that has arisen in this structure, the result of the conscious depreciation over time and under the responsibility of all governments - the former but also today - was decided by the Management Board of the Centre for Social Welfare of Attica, the abolition of this unit and the transfer of guests to other units. So on the basis of this development, but also of the problems faced by this structure, the questions to the Minister are as follows: firstly, will all the necessary intervention be made - work in this unit to improve the building facilities? Secondly, what moves will be taken, what initiatives will the government take, what measures will be taken to recruit the staff necessary to meet the needs of the guests and to allow further imports to be made as a result of the enormous shortages in such privileged structures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u3	The Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mrs Fotio, will respond. Please, Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Scaramagas, a colleague, is a case - perhaps the sharpest - of a situation that exists generally in our country in terms of institutions and in the view that has been established for years, that it is good to have large institutions, multitude institutions, if you like, people with disabilities or people with mental disabilities or people who are in the range of autism, that is, the case of Scaramaga. In the case of Scaramaga we have twenty - six people with severe mental backwardness and other cases in the range of autism. So this situation has created from the outset a concept that it is good to have such large institutions. Today, throughout the world, throughout Europe, but also in our country, all scientific units think it is wrong to continue the policy of immunisation and that it is wrong to have units in which there are people who are more than twenty, thirty, etc. Therefore, in order to have a personalised care we must create small groups to break the situation of immunisation. Speaking of Scaramaga, can Scaramaga be made, modernized, equipped? What can he do exactly? Let's get Scaramaga first as a building. Scaramagas is at the moment part of an old training centre - a piece, that is, he is occupied by this unit - which is ground floor and four floors. Each floor is 680 square meters and is 3,500 square meters with the basement. Today the two floors are empty. Would it make sense to build Scaramaga and have another 20 six kids? We say kids, but they're all of thirty-five years old to fifty. When we took over two children, namely minors, we transferred them to other treatments with their parents' consent, because we are interested in everything we do and the consent of all, that is, workers and specialists and parents. The children have completely changed. What parents tell us, experts, etc., is that they have changed their lives and that they are in a new environment, which really takes care of them and change their situation. So if we were to make Scaramaga today, we wouldn't make him to become a great asylum. That's not the modern concept. This is not the view of the Citizens' and Child's Counselor, who has sent us an extensive report - which I will present at the end in the Minutes - where he proposes relocation. Relocation is a story that takes time and multiple consents. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I will continue in the second phase of my speech. One of the reasons that Scaramagas, apart from others, is inappropriate for this type of unit, is because he's out of housing. The complex is located in Schistos and is isolated. It is not our understanding that these complexes must be a storeroom of souls outside of the residential tissue. It must be within the residential fabric, it must be open to society, it must enter into society and it must provide action in society so that these people can slowly join and start their rehabilitation, in part, as they can withstand. This is our understanding of both the Lehana and that is why we have done so far in Lehana. It slowly opens up the most extreme case in society for these people, for whom long and other protection is needed, as well as special action. This is our intention and I will explain to you in the second part of my speech how it will be done and who it is today in Scaramaga.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u5	Please, Mr Lambroulis, here you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I listened carefully to the Minister. See, this development - with what I have said in my prototype - rightly, Minister, creates the intense concerns and protests of parents and guardians, as well as of the Racing Disabled Movement, who are opposed to the closure of this Scaramaga unit and the transfer of the caretakers to other units. What do they claim? They call into question what I have said in my philosophy, namely improving the conditions of the existing structure - building, etc. - support with sufficient staff to meet the needs of these 'children' and, from there on, have all the benefits that science and progress in the field can offer to them today - or, if you like - the provision of such services as 'preferential', if you like, character. Of course, today's Scaramaga debate is also an issue that is not today, but it has been coming for years. The need to create and operate, in our view, public hosting structures of this kind with chronic diseases, people with disabilities, for example the autistic spectrum. But it's not just the autistic spectrum. The Communist Party has never advocated - and I think you know that very well - when the famous debate on decommissioning has even begun. But look at this: they have been devalued, consciously impoverished - and I repeat, it is a timeless issue and responsibilities all previous governments have - a series of such structures and, at the same time, the beneficiaries - let us say it - those with disabilities, which in fact have to make asylums, with tragic images and with what we have seen in the past. If measures had been taken to restore damage, damages, staff support, with programmes that could be followed by these people, they could endure their lives, because many of them or part of them are also part of society gradually. So here we are talking about a specific situation, where there are responsibilities over time. And, of course, there is serious concern, in view of this development in terms of the decision on the closure and transfer of these 'children', that perhaps in the summer, as was said orally, there is this movement of transport.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u7	Madam Minister, before I give you the floor, I would like a statement to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce that the Standing Committee on Formats Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport "Collection for the Management of Copyright and Related Rights, the grant of multi-territorial permits for online use of musical works and other matters within the competence of the Ministry of Culture and Sport". Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Panagiotis (South) Mitarakis from New Democracy asks for permission from a few days' absence to go abroad from Wednesday, September 13th to Wednesday, 20th of September 2017 and from Tuesday, October 24th to Sunday, 29th of October 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u8	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, if you wish, the depreciation of these institutions as a result of the crisis through mergers that have taken place, as you know, in thirteen social protection centres throughout Greece, sixty-three institutions - Scaramagas is one of the institutions that merged in the Centre for Social Protection at Attica, together with the other institutions that make it up - is one picture of the administrative merger. Nevertheless, Scaramagas has at the moment - and we have to say it - thirty-seven workers for twenty-six people, as I have told you. They are twenty nurses and nursing assistants and the other seventeen people in general from the administration or other services. Is that enough? No, it's not. Do we want more skilled people to serve the twenty-six people? We do. As I have explained in the first part, however, there is not the problem, that is to say, ten more people, even though you know that it is very difficult to appoint ten young people in the Scaramaga unit and, by extension, in all the units of the state, in the sixty-three units of the state. The problem, as I have explained, is a problem of perception. Are we going to make big asylums, have people stacked and not stacked? Because here the big problem is that we have a huge complex - six acres of outdoor space - where it is impossible to monitor the benefit of Scaramaga. Hence most of the time they stay inside. There is, then, a question of scale. They must be created in Greece, such as throughout the world, smaller institutions that resemble large houses and are within the urban fabric or near the urban fabric, so that these large houses are open to the community. Their integration into the community and work by extension is the right of people with disabilities, in accordance with the UN treaties we have signed as a country. I say to you this: if these units do not start becoming smaller, more flexible and within the urban fabric, we are not going to have a change of attitude that thinks that all these people should be isolated somewhere where society does not see them, if you want. We have a different perception. Scaramagas is an excellent example. We do not intend to take concrete action. If we wanted to do it, we'd have done it. And we would have resolved, if you wish, scientifically correct the problem, as all the experts and the Counsel of the Child say. So the Child's Counselor tells us that we need to relocate the benefit of Scaramaga. We'd have done it. We are trying to get the greatest possible consensus. Workers want it to be found in smaller units, to be found with eight children. The workers have to work differently. They're exhausted. All these stories are very psycho-corruption. The whole concept must be completely changed. I will continue to support it with passion, that we need to change our country's prosperous landscape. That's why we're bringing the law on assumption and adoption in the summer Parliament. We will bring him in, because we believe that the first move is that children do not enter the institutions - this is the most serious move - and then, of course, the institutions are slowly becoming more and more small units and creating roofs of supportive living, where every four, every five, these people will be able to live within the social fabric. Not all, but some of them, along with the proper staff. That's the plan. And either we put it in front of all parties with consensus, having the whole scientific community at our side, or, I think, our country is not taking steps forward in this area. And I also hope that the JRC, as well as all the Parliament's wings, will be involved in changing the country's prosperous landscape in substance. That's what we have to do. Even in times of crisis we can do so. As long as we all want together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, too. We move to the third with No 1213/11-7-2017 a top-level question to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on 'Instead of measures to support Greek livestock farming, excluding compound feed from VAT reduction'. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Chironis. Please, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u11	Minister, Greek stockfarming is going through a difficult phase in which there is an increase in costs and at the same time a reduction in prices. The increase in costs is, of course, about increasing taxation, the gradual increase in insurance contributions and, of course, the increase in the necessary feed. At the same time, and while we have reduced due to various weather conditions - milk production conditions, prices are falling. So this situation leads to a dead end to our farmers, who consider it incomprehensible - and it is incomprehensible - that the VAT reduction of compound feedingstuffs, Greek or processed game and feedingstuffs, which are necessary for Greek livestock and which constitute the maximum percentage of the feed used by Greek livestock farmers. Of course, there are nominal collective and individual complaints about the Greekisations of milk, which also lead to lower milk prices. That is all we ask you, Minister, if you intend, and in what way, as a government and as a ministry, to review your view and your position on the exemption from VAT on composite processed feedingstuffs, so that they may also be included in VAT 13%. And, of course, let us know if you are aware of the complaints about the Greek milk scheme and what action you have taken so far or intend to take in order to protect Greek livestock farmers and Greek producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u12	Please, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu raises an issue that is very important, the productivity and sustainability of Greek dairy production, which is a very long debate, because we know that our country is not being self-sufficient in milk and is even under attack from competitive products from other countries. So we need to see the reasons that are at the moment making Greek production difficult. Of course, some of the figures referred to by Mr Kegeroglu are not accurate. I will mention specific data on cow's milk production: in 2013 it was 607,000 tonnes, in 2014 it was 610,000 tonnes, in 2015 it was 602,000 tonnes and in 2016 it was 600,000 tonnes. As you can see, we do not have a significant reduction to say that at the moment we have what we call the collapse of production. I say again that all these years Greece has not been self-sufficient in milk. We do not regard this as a good number, but we are not talking about reduced production. And in ovine and caprine animals, which is our koruna, because that is where our production is based, and that is our special product, in 2016 we had 10% increase in production, i.e. 606,000 tons of sheep and 141,000 tons of goat, while in 2015 we had 549,000 tons of sheep and 129,000 tons of goat. In other words, we have had an increase in production, without that being to say that we are satisfied with these figures. I now turn to the part of increased costs. It is clear that increased costs are not about increasing the tax on profits. And the increase in VAT in inputs you know that it is not a cost to the producer. It is just a bad credit, which has been reduced now. I shall also be able to explain here about tax heading 2309. We do have increased costs in feedingstuffs, because Greece unfortunately - and I will explain it in my denture - depends on feedingstuffs. 70% of costs are feed, real feed costs, not tax. That's not true, that's not the problem. I'm gonna hang up with the class. Yes, the ministry responds in affirmatively. The Ministry of Finance is currently studying to get compound feed into the low VAT, which we have achieved in cooperation with the institutions from 24% to 13% for all other products. The difficulty in this heading, at 2309, is not that the government or someone else wanted to exclude it, but that this heading also includes animal feed, which they should have - I do not think anyone - should object to 24% of VAT, because it is a consumer product, it is not about production, it is not about production. And since heading 2309 also includes these feeds, that is to say, what we are buying for dogs and kittens, it was clear that the Ministry is preparing an amendment so that we can exclude compound feed and also go to category 13%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u14	Please, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. On the issue of compound feedingstuffs, which are a key factor in Greek livestock farming, I think that accepting the government's mistake can lead, if the Ministry of Finance really is prepared to process the lifting of this injustice, to a proper decision. We're waiting to see exactly what's going to happen with this story. But it's not an excuse to feed dogs and kittens. That is now, I think, an excuse for the moment. We do not need to use such arguments, Minister. It is the government's mistake and the increase in VAT, which has become a whole, and the exception to the reduction for compound feed. Just stuff. I'll check it out for the Ministry. You said he'd see it retrospectively. All right, we're taking this honesty attitude. From there on, there can be no excuse for kittens, dogs, etc. As far as the issue of milk Greekizations is concerned, the complaints made to you personally and to the representative of the DIMITRA Agency by farmers' representatives have not found your answers satisfactorily and of course I did not hear a satisfactory answer today about how to deal with the problem. Look, the fact that the dairy industry has declared high stocks to be able to import from Bulgaria, etc., does not mean that there has been an increase in production, especially for sheep and goat milk. Balance doesn't work. The "ARTEMIS" system is not working. Or is it working? What about all the things you've been denounced so far? Is that how we get past it? It can't be. I do not go into the question of feta, but rather the need to go further, in line with the demand made and the establishment of an inter-branch organisation. And I do not go into the fetish issue, because there are sensitive issues that you need to consider, without the need for complaints or any other evidence. I think that you have been given this information and you should, of course, take control of specific actions and actions which can lead to the problem of milk Greekizations, which is not only for the production of cheese. This has also contributed to increasing the days for raw milk that allows imports and other factors. I think, then, that you should take concrete action in this respect and - if you are not ready today, okay - tell us what these actions are at a later stage. But don't hide the problem under the carpet. It's a huge problem. Of course, I should like to come back to the question of feedingstuffs - and to close with it - and say that the longer we are going to favour imported feedingstuffs, the longer we are being delayed by mutated soybeans. And especially you, coming from the economists and you have shown sensitivity to the issues of genetically modified food and feed, you have to deal with this. In genetically modified soya, VAT was reduced to 13%. This is a favourable regime for something that we do not want. We need to look very quickly at this examination process that you said about VAT how it will go down to 13%. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, too. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. I have stated and confirmed that we are in close cooperation with the Ministry of Finance - to close this issue - to resolve this issue with this class and to get farmers and these compound feeds VAT the law, what they have for everything. However, I say again that VAT on the inputs - and anyone who has a very small business or is a farmer knows - is not a cost. It doesn't count the VAT on the cost. It's a possible lack of liquidity, it's a problem, it's no cost. To speak with an elementary economic and elementary arithmetic. VAT is netted. You all know that. So it can't cause any cost. Is that right? From there on, then, I turn to the essential, because the essential thing is not VAT. I'm saying it again. It's a problem of liquidity, but it's not the essential thing. The cost in Greece is created by two main causes and here we enter the root of evil. One key reason is that we import feed. Our Sardinian colleagues - Italy is Sardinia, it is not Turkey, it is not a third country, it is a Europe, it is a free movement of goods - it sells 0.65. That is enough for the Greek company at its door below 0.80. That's a reality. So let's see what they did, and they reduced the costs, so that we can cut them down, and we know what they did. They made grazing land. They threw refreshments in a crossland that they did not care why they did not win from there and import feed. They greatly reduced imported feed. Well, here is news today that yesterday, on the 3rd of the month, in fact - yesterday, we announced it in the press - we are finally starting in Greece the management plans for grazing land. Managing plans means much more grazing land, much more sustainable management of land, to become the ADs, what has been forested, the fields that have been forested and abandoned again, to be able to turn back so that we have high quality products, which are feed products, such as carobs, such as refreshment, to turn back and have too low costs. This is the big fight. The great battle is to significantly reduce the cost of feeding. Another major battle - and that is where we are working right now - is to reduce the cost of the various drugs. It is not possible, for example, for a livestock medicinal product in Italy to make 30 euros in Greece 130. What can I make him the VAT be 13% and 0% when I pay the basic price and the Italian pays by 30? And 50 if it were the VAT in Italy, he would buy it 45 euros and we would buy it 130 euros. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. The last issue - but I say the last one, because the first is to become competitive, to become productive and that is what we are discussing with our rural women and our farmers - is controls. Indeed, "ARTEMIS" right now is impossible, as it works, to catch all the traffic and make it continuous, to catch all the balances. We certainly need a cloud, a programme that is to be a database covering all production. This is what we are working and we are trying to build now and we are working on it in cooperation with professional associations so that it is really excluded from the fact that one company declares that it brought milk from Italy and brought ten tons and another company states that it brought fifty to see what happened to that milk, how it got to the consumption. I would like to close with one thing which has been heard and which is not accurate. I am vertically opposed to increasing the days. I'm saying it's not in my political opinion. It was a pressure we accepted - you know - from the OECD toolbox. It's not my policy. However, I would like to make it clear - and it seems from the evidence - that the introduction of fresh cow's milk has not changed since this increase in the days. After all, most companies did not make this increase because they respect their consumers. You know that the consumer right now knows what quality means. The less the days, the lower pasteurisation, which means tasty that five days’ milk is much better than seven days’ milk, eleven days, one month’s milk. In this sense, the dairy industries themselves do not want to increase these days, because milk does not come on the market too good. The only advantage perhaps of being milk for more than seven days, instead of five days, is that supermarkets can get it out of the last two days that it is going to end at a much lower price, but from what our statistics say - and this is done, you will have seen it in consumption - has not affected this significantly - I say because it has a very small reduction - at least the price of cow milk, which has lost over the last two years around 4 minutes. So we can't associate the two facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, too, Minister. I have the honour to announce that the Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Kaloger, has announced to Parliament that a number of topical questions will not be discussed because of various reasons. First of all, there will be no debate on the ninth number 1178/5-7-2017 topical question of the second question of the Achaias MP of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, on the direct connection of the Gadoura dam with the river network of Rhodes, because the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport is responsible. Nor will the following topical questions be discussed as a result of an impediment to the relevant ministers and redefined for discussion: We will not discuss the fourth question with number 1183/7-7-2017, the first question of the Athens National Association - Golden Dawn, Eleni Zaroulia, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Continuing terrorist attacks against the fatalities of MATs", due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr. Toska, which will be in Thessaloniki. We will not discuss the third question with number 1179/6-7-2017, the second question of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the protection and safety of the people of Acharnes. Also, we will not discuss the fourth under number 1184/7-7-2017 a topical question by MP I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Anthony Gregos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “The desecration of the sacred monument of the Unknown Soldier as a result of continuous impunity”. The sixth question will not be discussed under number 1190/11-7-2017, a topical question by the MP Drama of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Christos Karagiannides to the Minister of the Interior, on the action of the "Anodachus Mayan Nationalists" and the "Combat 18 Hellas" in Menidios. At the same time, the eleventh question will not be discussed under number 1175/4-7-2017 in the second cycle of MP II Athens of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, on the subject: "The reduced funding of the Fire Corps poses great problems in the work of firemen and fire extinguishers". Also, the first question under number 1186/10-7-2017 will not be discussed in the Second Cycle of MP I Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Alexandros Triantafyllidis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Hazard mark emits the Thermaikos Gulf, is urgently a direct active intervention program", due to the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Kollias - Tsarouhas, who has the tripartite meeting of Greece - Serbia - Bulgaria at the Supreme Council of Labour at the Megaron of Thessaloniki. At the same time, we will not discuss the fifth under number 1211/11-7-2017 a topical question from the Member of the Lesvos Parliamentary Party of Greece Mr. Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: "To take immediate steps to compensate the seismic patients immediately and to restore the damage to Lesvos" due to the obstruction of the Minister of Transport and Infrastructure Mr. Spirtzi, who will be in Thessaloniki with the Prime Minister and the Serbian delegation. The thirteenth, with number 1110-27-2017, topical question from the Member of the Evian Association - Golden Dawn Mr.Nikolaos Michou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "On the brink of the collapse, the house of the Hero of the National Energies "Andreas Miaouli" is not discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr. Lydias Konordos. Also, the fourteenth under number 1123/3-7-2017 topical question by MEP I of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Anthony Gregos to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Upping the name "Macedonia" to sports organisations", is not discussed. Also, the fifteenth question under number 1031/15-6-2017, the second timely question from the Athens Parliamentary II of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Helen Zaroulias to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The Municipality of Kavala legalizes the pseudo-state in tourist exhibition in Constantinople", is not discussed. Also, the twelfth is not discussed under No 1212/11-7-2017 the second time question from MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The acute problem with drinking water in many villages of the Municipality of Mykes in the Regional Unit of Xanthi", due to the impediment of the Minister of the Interior Mr. Skourletis, due to a lack of time to gather the necessary data. The Minister intends to reply in writing to the Member's question number 6948 referring to the same subject. We continue with the first with the number 1185/10-7-2017 timely question of the first cycle of the MP Iraklio of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "Following the Labour Inspectorate Departments". The current question will be answered by the Minister, Mrs Ahtsoglou. Mr. Vardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, the Labour Inspectorate is making a decisive contribution to dealing with undeclared and alleged work through its checks. In order to effectively cover the whole range of labour market and meet the needs of workers and businesses, however, it is imperative to strengthen the staffing of labour inspection departments. Since the fight against undeclared work is the government's main priority, the regional EIA departments must be supported by serious interventions, because the effort made by the workers is really worthwhile. Will efforts be stepped up for even more effective controls to protect workers and provide substantial support for the insurance system? In addition, will the necessary appropriations for fuel and logistical infrastructure be approved in good time for the proper functioning of the AAR services? Minister, I am sure that through a design of a serious and structured framework we can effectively deal with the infrastability in the labour market and I believe that all of us will help in any effort of the Ministry of Labour to upgrade the EIA and, more generally, to activate and manage the control mechanisms in order to combat the uninsured and black work that is now inclined to become a scourge in our time. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u20	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, it is very critical and I think that today there is a very positive dynamic in terms of unemployment, and that is what I want to start. We saw that ELSTAT's figures showed the corrected rate of unemployment in April 2017, which is 21.7%. It is about two points below the corresponding figure that last April and is about five points below the unemployment rate with which this government began its work. The positive dynamics in the fight against unemployment must certainly be complemented by strong interventions in the quality of industrial relations. And this is where the Labour Inspectorate is really making a very big effort to improve this issue, namely to improve the quality of labour relations itself. The Labour Inspectorate, in the crisis by the previous governments, was effectively degraded and I think that was not an accident. It was a conscious political choice, because overall the previous government's approach to labour relations was an approach which considered labour rights to be a brake on development. That growth, in other words, will come through the squeezing of labour costs and labour rights, was the key account adopted by the previous government. Example of this deterioration, the organogram adopted by the previous government in 2014 for the Labour Inspectorate, which abolished two hundred nine organic positions and twenty-six organic units, nine addresses and seventeen sections. And because many times the numbers may not say exactly what they need, I only give two examples. The previous government abolished the Legal Support Department of the Labour Inspectorate and the Information Systems Department of the Labour Inspectorate. It is obvious that it is a global originality for an audit mechanism to work without legal support and without an information system. What have we been doing since we took over and given the great importance we attach to the action of the Labour Inspectorate to bring legality to the workplaces? Seven speeches will be made. [[At this point, the end of the speech bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] I'm going to start and hopefully I can finish my dentistry. With the new organogram, organic positions increase by a hundred forty. We create nine new organic units, two addresses and seven sections. Fifty recruitments have already been made in the Labour Inspectorate, and I hope that in the next few years we will be happy to announce more. In particular, support for the health and safety at work, which has been recruited for seventeen years. The second very crucial element in upgrading the operation of the Labour Inspectorate is the adoption of a comprehensive action plan with funding from the NSRP of EUR 7,600,000, the overall budget. This plan includes funding of pilot control programmes in high infractional sectors, upgrading of information services and legal advice to workers, upgrading of information systems and training programmes of inspectors. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I'm going to go on with my second-guess with the rest of the points.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Vardakis has the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, we know that it is really difficult for the services and agencies that have been deported and really dismantled - we have experienced it in our minds from unbalanced policies over the last fifteen years - to work for the uninterrupted service of the social whole in two years. But that for us, for our Government, in any case must not be an alibi. It is immediately important to restore the negative changes and depreciation that have arisen, as I have told you before, from previous governments' policies, mergers, deactivation, structures of the EIA, once and for all, with the result that in 2013, 2014 and 2015, black and uninsured work will be launched at 30%. We are waiting for your own actions, Minister, in the next few days, which will create the immediate prospects for security and employment dignity of the Greek society. In these efforts, you should know that we will be charitable, but immediately, these efforts must be made, so that what has happened over the past ten years is not done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u24	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. I am still essentially quoting the main lines of the strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate. They are the axes which show that we are strengthening the Labour Inspectorate with the necessary information system in order to target controls and to be more effective, but also with a set of institutional interventions which we will shortly bring to Parliament. And that is the third basic intervention. We are already entering the final stage of completing the procedures for controls in rural areas. The blurred legislation that allowed and the political inappropriateness of the "Manila" is over. Already in operation since the beginning of the year, the Integrated Information System of the Labour Inspectorate has been in place, which through a risk analysis programme shows which companies are most likely to be outlawed, so that controls are carried out there targeted. And the targeted checks are working. A characteristic example is that undeclared work fell from 19.17% in 2014 to 13.5% in 2016. At operational level we update the action of the Labour Inspectorate. At the moment, programmes of targeted checks are being carried out on tourism. For example, an intervention in the last month of Special Inspectors with two hundred checks in tourist areas, where 50% of them were fined or are in the process of written explanations, has already been made. We are setting our targets for the first time on the so-called work. We had just mentioned the fine of EUR 1.5 million imposed on a large bank in cases of alleged work, for about a hundred infringements, and yesterday the Labour Inspectorate again announced to a large bank of EUR 250,000 for infringements of working time, overtime and overworking. Finally, we are also stepping up the operational coordination of the audit bodies so that they can act jointly on the EIA, the IAEA, the Economic Police and the audit bodies of the ECA. This function of the four bodies has already been launched in the Attica region and will be completed in September. We are also planning a set of institutional interventions - this is the last intervention - a set of institutional changes, namely legislative work, which you will soon see in Parliament. We have already introduced the compulsory payment of wages by means of a bank, which helps greatly to control the payment of wages to employees, and the next time we will establish a system of exclusion of access to public money or to Community funds by companies that systematically violate labour law and we will correct a number of 'blank' points which the ERGAN system has in particular in relation to the overtime system, so that compliance with working time limits can be better monitored. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I think that from time to time, we are showing that this government certainly has the will and has a very structured plan to enforce legality in the workplace.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u26	The next up-to-date questions, because they have a common topic, will be discussed together. The second question will be discussed under number 1205/11-7-2017, the first question of the New Democracy MP Mr. Panagiotis (Southern) Mitaraki to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "The suffering continues for those awaiting retirement and the resources available are lost". Also, there will be a debate on the seventh under number 1214/11-7-2017 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "The law of SYRIZA provides for good pensions and hundreds of thousands of unfinished pensions remain". Also, the eighth question will be discussed under number 1180/6-7-2017 in the second cycle of the Parliamentary Attica of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Paraskevi Christophilopoulou to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on delays in the award of pensions and the loss of resources for social security. The State Secretary for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity will answer Mr. Petropoulos. Mr. Metarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by pointing out that you are always diligent in answering current questions and questions, you are not diligent in answering the written questions. I had also raised it last time in this House, and I would like at some point, if you would like, Minister, to answer the thirty-one questions that are pending. But let's get to the point of the matter. The delay in the awarding of major and supplementary pensions for tens of thousands of our fellow citizens who have completed their working life in these difficult circumstances is now a major problem and are waiting for their pensions to be issued and, as long as this is pending, they are in major survival problems. You brought an unjust law, Minister, and it is a problem today, in practice, for its implementation. You have brought the upper - down to social security, increased contributions to productive Greece, cut pensions, but even these reduced pensions in practice are not in a position to issue them. The calendar for the issue of these pensions is a moving sand. Each time, every time, the targeting changes and a ministerial decision was issued a few days ago that changed the pension repayment targets in 2017 for 2018 at an additional cost of EUR 325 million for the state budget. Of the evidence provided to us by the commander of EFKA, sixty thousand applications are pending before the Katrugalos Act, but seventy-eight thousand - much more - after the Katrugalou law was passed. There are, of course, hundreds of twenty - six thousand applications for subsidiary and sixty - two thousand applications for a single. All in all, Mr Minister, there are three hundred twenty-seven thousand applications for retirement. And as I pointed out, because your government rather than governs many times to opposition to opposition to opposition to opposition, and I have already noted - and I can tell you - the new applications pending after taking up your duties are much more than those that were pending before. It took you a year to understand that the mathematical formula doesn't work for the main pensions. You have not yet issued the mathematical formula for ancillarys and you have instructed not to issue any new subsidiary after 1 January 2015. For two and a half years, that is, there is no subsidiary issue. Tell us, Minister, what is the new objective and, above all, convince the National Representation that you are in a position with specific resources that you have committed, through specific procedures now in operation, to meeting your new renewed objective. Thank you. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u28	Minister - in the presence of the Minister of State, of course, we must tell you, Mr Secretary-General, but I think that you are working uniformly - you are now the longest-lived Memorandum Government. This does not give you the right to seek an alibi in whatever negative there was of the many negative ones that existed and will always exist in every area of politics. In particular, for the matter we are discussing, over three hundred and thousands of requests for a single supplementary and supplementary one are an issue that we have been asking you to deal with for a long time. You are committed with great words that, in October, everything will be broken - if I remember correctly - and of course you are also committed to the Memorandum in order not to lose any specific money in the timetable for the extradition of these pensions, the one-off, the gentlemen and the subsidiary. Minister, yesterday Mr Bakalepsis announced a premium for the workers, I presume. This is a panic movement in front of the inertia that you have shown so far and the huge problem that has accumulated. We would like you to explain why so far you have not taken measures, or others, which would lead to the examination of the applications pending. And of course you will tell us what you will do about the good pensions that have begun and come out and concern applications that have been made between 1-1-2015 and 12-5-2016, that is, before the implementation of the Katrugalos Act, which, because of the measures that were adopted in the summer of 2015, lead to press pensions - I will submit the corresponding documents -121 euros pension to sixty-four-year-olds insured for seventeen years of work. I've written it to you in detail in the question. And when she gets to sixty-seven, she'll also get the so-called national pension, the part that she wants, that is, 346 euros, or I don't know how much more. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This phenomenon is not about one, two, three or some individual cases, not even the thirty thousand cases at this time. It will be a lasting phenomenon from now on. So you have to tell us what you are going to do directly about the extradition of pensions and if you are thinking of revisiting this socially irreversible arrangement that you have voted on - you have recommended, I suppose, rather than the Troika and the hundreds of three and fifty Members of the majority voted - who say that by sixty-seven, you can live in other ways, in women or men or anyone else who had paid contributions. And tell us what other ways they will live until sixty-seven after you have voted for this arrangement. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u29	Me, too. Mrs Christophilopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u30	Mr Minister, I, too, continue with my own thoughts and my own information on the issues already raised by the two previous Members. Minister, there are now pensioners - and you know it - who, for example, have been retired from the public sector at the beginning of the year, have not even been retired. And these people - many of the three hundred thousand already mentioned - are called upon to pay HIS and taxes, namely to be consistent with their obligations towards the state and at the same time to live, to meet their personal needs and family needs. In other words, there is a question of substance and survival in this matter. And I'm coming back to what's already been submitted to ask for something extra. So you have indeed been too late in the extradition of new pensions. Already the EUR 859 million envelope - it was assumed that by October 2017 pensions would be paid and you had that budget, you had secured it - it is being extended. Tell us here in Parliament because it needed to be extended, and in any case, when the pensioners will get their money, and in the meantime, what are you going to do to issue temporary pensions? Because, Mr President, it is well known that the 2011 legislation was made to facilitate. And instead of going forward - why each government receives problems and positive ones - in this story, we went back. And I'm explaining. Not only do we have a lower ceiling on temporary pensions, but today we have - and you know it - many pension beneficiaries of the OSCE and other old funds, who do not even receive a temporary pension. How many of them, Minister, and when will these people at least receive their temporary pension, this cut-off? Why didn't you just abolish the ESS and cut them off, but you accepted all our cuts and said that they weren't enough, and to cover the Capital Controls and the "barbecue" route, we had to do more. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, in my dentext I would just like to mention the issue of this period that Mr Kegeroglu also mentioned, because the period of pensioners between July 2015 and May 2016 is the great losers of the system. It is about thirty thousand, as we calculate with the information we have at our disposal, Minister. Thirty thousand people get or don't even get, or they'll get, when they get, hunger pensions. There you must do something to rectify injustice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u31	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for nine minutes in total.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Mitarakis, please inform your relevant Member of the truth about the funds that have been secured by the country from the cash flows which, after the successful assessment, open to our country to cover those old-time liabilities too. So it's not true what he says and he's going around and saying it over and over and over and over that we've lost those funds, that we're gonna have to make half of it for us. You have put the question right, you do not follow this falsehood that your relevant sectoral leader is talking about, because what has been agreed is that we have 859 million of these funds for the period originally mentioned since October. We received an extension of 325 million additional, which extends the period of pension payment until June 2018. We have, indeed, a goal and we will achieve it half of this amount in addition to doing so from own resources. So we will ensure that all outstanding pensions are covered. Therefore, all 325 million for which you have spoken as a cost to the country, is an extra amount of funding, it is not a cost to the country. It is also an additional amount that will come from the currency we have on the part of lenders. The numbers are relentless, indeed. If it is explosive for us to have at the moment about thirty - nine thousand outstanding pensions, then the sixty thousand outstanding, when we received the government, what explosion does it mean? Twenty - five thousand more had been pending from the past. If we are talking about the one-offs that were pending since August 2013, which were never paid and started to be paid by us, what kind of explosive is that from the great cumulation of old pensions I told you about? These are amounts that were not managed. Over a hundred and sixty thousand outstanding basic pensions were in January 2015. And because you sum it up together, Mr. Auxiliary and one-off, to make a large sum of money and sound, let us split the sums and have an account right. Right now, there are hundreds of nine thousand left and within the two years 2015-2016 we served two hundred seventeen thousand sixty main pensions, with temporary and final decision-making. We are therefore talking about a project which, in fact, if we are doing the accounts properly and not with alchemys, seems to have been promoted during the period of our own governance compared with the delays in the pensions of the previous period. "How do they survive?" you asked, Mrs Christophilopoulou. How did they survive for all these years that they waited for four and five years to retire, and how did these more waiting for pensioners in relation to those who are waiting today? Indeed, what we are doing is achieving a neutralisation of the time distance from the application until the pension is granted. This will be seen in the completion of the implementation of computerised systems, which are already working rapidly and which is why we will quickly have the positive effects on the issue of these pensions. So all your questions are about your past: Why have you been so late in pensions, because you were not giving a single answer, because you were creating this problem in the economy, which really could not have been with such an unemployment, with such huge deficits that existed in the social security system over the past few years, which have been added from time to time. That has been interrupted and we have for the first time had surpluses. Measuring last month 140 million has reached EFKA despite our original forecasts of deficits. We've achieved surpluses. This is due, of course, to a large extent to the figures mentioned by Minister Ahtsoglu just now in relation to unemployment. The problem with the pension you mentioned, Mr Kegeroglu, concerns the pension with Mr.4336/2015. I would remind you that it is the law that you, the anti-population forces, have forced us to accept and rapidly proceed with the signing of such claims. Indeed, it was a choice of that period of yours - mainly yours - as you were all shouting together for the rapid signing of these commitments. It wasn't a choice of our government. So the sum you're talking about, that is, the sum of EUR 121,68 million - that is exactly - is true, but as a result of a law that you wanted to vote on too. You couldn't hold on to anything. In fact, you blamed us for then voting with our MPs on Law No.4387/2016, a law that leads to another pension result on the particular case you speak about. Based on L.4387/2016, it corresponds to EUR 418 in the case that it now gives EUR 121 on the basis of L.4336/2015 that you wanted to vote on. Mr.4387/2016, which gives 418 euros, you did not vote for him. The law that gives 121 euros you wanted him. That's the difference. Indeed, L.4387/2016 is our whole, and the EUR 121 is your claim to sign quickly - quickly at the time of 2015, this difficult period of 2015, when we were forced to accept with the promise that we will change things in the next period. So we kept this promise with Mr.4387/2016. So the pension that these people are entitled to in the lowest category you have referred to - you are talking about thirty thousand people, but we are talking about those who are, anyway - is now EUR 418. Of course, we will address this issue before we arrive at that time of the completion of the sixty-seven years, according to which national pensions will be given in full and without cuts. We have the way to achieve this and all those insured people who have been in this difficult situation will be informed. We will find the right solution to actually have a fair, fair and equitable treatment with other insured persons subject to the provisions of Law No.4387/2016. The law of 2011, you say, go ahead. It's never been applied. What does it mean to "go forward" after such a large pension deficit and such a large capital deficit in the funds of the institutions? When we took over the governance of the country, there were deficits everywhere, deficits that have come to lead, despite the reductions in pensions, to a huge amount and, ultimately, expenditure itself has reached 17% of GDP. Therefore, because the figures are indeed vague, but at the expense of your own policy of previous years, we will respond in writing, Mr Mitarakis, to the written issues you raise, which, as you know, are made by the officials of the Ministry. I come here and always answer directly to all the questions. This data is compiled by the Ministry, whose employees have been declining, as have the officials of the social security institutions who, from about fifteen thousand in 2010, have now reached eight thousand three hundred. Nevertheless, with such a limited number of employees, with the services of the social security institutions - seven thousand less than they were in 2015 - we have managed to have issued more pensions and move on to better organisation of the institution. They deserve toys on these people. They deserve to be played by executives and officials who, despite the difficulties, are making this fight with us. I would say that you should finally join in the fight for social security officials.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u33	Please, Mr Mitarakis, you have the floor for three minutes again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u34	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, as I said in my prototype, you have created an unjust law and are unable to implement it. You could say today bravely that you did not capture the objective of issuing outstanding pensions in 2017, which was your goal. The version of the Official Journal of the Government, which I will submit for the Minutes, dated 4 July 2017, signed by Mrs Ahtsoglou, firstly, confirms the additional expenditure on the State budget of EUR 325 million and, secondly, passes the target for the repayment of pensions on 30 June 2018. The most important thing, however, - and this is what I expect you to hear, Mr Minister, in your dilemma - is to explain to the National Representation specifically how you have organised your ministry's services, which you have just deceived with the comment you have made so that you can get your new goal. However, I remember the previous period in which, for example, the one-off EUR 3.1 billion was granted in the period 2011-2014. Tell us what this government has published for one-off and subsidiary respectively since January 2015? You strongly criticised the opposition, the constant tactics of SYRIZA's ministers. But now, Minister, it is over two and a half years and you can no longer stand up to opposition to the opposition, and you are now judged by your own actions. And we want you to tell us what you are going to do to issue the three hundred and seven thousand outstanding pensions, which, as I said, the stock, the new pensions that are pending after the votes of the Katrugalos law, are now much more than the stock that existed before him. Of course, there is a qualitative issue. As we learn from service providers, easy pensions are normally issued, for example, those which do not have successive insurance, fictitious years, etc. You confirm that? Are you confirming that there is a huge disproportionate delay and a lack of interest from the Ministry's services, due to the quantitative objectives, for these more complex pensions? Also, let me ask you one more question. The 24th ECA circular was issued in May 2017, which says that new pensions issued, are also issued subject to reservation. Why? Is there still no way to apply the mathematical formula? So there are still the imperfections of the original Katrugalu law? Of course, you did not tell us what you did organisationally all these months, all these two and a half years, to be able to deal with the problem of outstanding pensions. Last week - he says - you decided to give an extra bonus to the employees. I won't judge it. But, if necessary, why didn't you think about it before? If you don't have to, have you reached a dead end, and now you're looking to find a way with overtime to cover the organisational weakness of the EMCDDA, your systemic problem? It is specifically questions, Mr Minister. I want you to tell us specifically what your target is for these three hundred and seven thousand pensions? When are you gonna publish them? And most importantly, how? What are these organisational changes that you are now going to make to correct what has happened in the previous period, a period that failed to issue outstanding pensions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, too. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, I have waited for no other answer, because of course there are people who are confusing the "fuck news" with "fuck news", there are people who are confusing the screams of the professionals and traders and who regard them as cheerful. So, what answers to expect when there's such confusion in the minds of those who manage public affairs? I now come to the State Secretary, Mr Petropoulos, to remind him that by their own decision - he may have been President at OAU at the time - he was the State Secretary of SYRIZA - ANEL who abolished the pension thresholds. And the result of the EUR 121 is the abolition by Ministerial Decision of Mr Haikalis, which you have continued, and of course the 22% reduction in the pension thresholds, which has been in force since the 60th year of age. So don't look for an alibi. You are the best submissive Memorandums, which you did not even have the sensitivity to say that "in any case, we disagreed, but we did it and we will look at correcting it". But you came with the Katrugalu law and confirmed it once again. You have confirmed this whole situation, rather than correct it. And today you're looking for an alibi. I have tabled the shock cleansing report and have asked you to tell me the six-four-year-old to 67 with what work it will be able to survive, with what amounts. Even if it comes to the public, advisers are now unpaid, or anything else, if you could take it for advice, as you tell us. It is a flagrant injustice to her, because she has paid insurance contributions for specific years and has to take the appropriate measures. You referred to a timetable for June 2018. Until yesterday, you told us here that the timetable will be respected by October and that it is all set and that you have foreseen it. Another was this Undersecretary, Mr. Petropoulos, who told us that by October he would have it all settled? Was it false news made? And now come the real things they say about June 2018? You think you can make fun of the world? Do you not have the courage to say sincerely 'did we fall out of predictions'? You only come to take responsibility for the workers indirectly and say that the workers are not working, but are we now giving them a speedy hand to work? This explanation is given by public opinion, when you come a long time ago - and after you failed as the political leadership and as the administration of the ECA, to start things - to take responsibility indirectly for the workers. And if public opinion says 'good, do the workers want extra money to make the pensions'? And that is something that is not true, because in fact it is a question of work which will be further. And people will work in addition to getting these pensions off. However, this is obviously not only due to any situation involving the workers, but also to your general inertia and failure. And tell me by the way: In October 2016, the digitalisation of the insurance of Greek insured persons would be completed. The completion of the digitalisation in October 2016 would mean that the pension could be issued within a week. Why did you delay her? It was advisable, why did the corresponding money not exist? Why did you do that? What right?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u37	Please finish, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u38	I shall conclude, Mr President, because this is not the case. There are so many failures, weaknesses, intentions and all that the political leadership wants to put to others the responsibilities that they are not able to exhaust in the context of a question today. If this work of digitisation had been completed on time, then it could actually be carried out in time for these outstanding pensions to be issued. This is the difference between today and the past: If this had been completed, it could have been dealt with immediately. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too. Mrs Christophilopoulou, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Petropoulou, trying to answer me - which you did not answer - you told me how pensioners live today without a pension and without a temporary pension and how they live on our day. And I heard you say again that it is the 'bad old's to blame for everything. This is not just a sign of political cowardice, Mr President. It is an indication of a government, which lives from lying, but which has close legs. I want to remind you. - for when you were yelling - and you were right to act as opposition - that pensions are being delayed. Because we established the temporary pension in 2011, Mr Petropoulou. We talked for a year or so, and I confess that it was very much, because I won't look good, nor "fake news". I'm not a populist, I'm not a SYRIZA - ANEL, and I'll never be. Well, then, you were yelling - and I was saying - and we were trying, because there were cases that reached a year. Now we're talking about three. Are you conscious of the situation? Have you spoken to retired people? Do you realize that not only did you accept our cuts in the memoirs that were made in deficits, but also the cuts in your own, when you received surpluses? And we had only a budget of less than EUR 1 billion for insurance. It was far below, it was around half a billion, the extra obligation for the country's insurance. At the moment, with the successive memos, the insurance has so far been charged with EUR 3 billion. And if we put on what you voted for 2019, we'll go to 5.6 billion euros. And you dare say you're old? Aren't you embarrassed? Just the C.E.S.E.L.D.? Just the pensions? Just the subsidiary? The towel you made, the weights you cumulated? Because these are paid by the Greek pensioner, who at the same time - I say again - pays HIS, pays taxes, is the mortgage. And you dare come here when you've accumulated these on the back of the insured? For example - to see the size of your inability - the subsidiary. You've now taken May a new circular. The suspension of the granting of supplementary pensions shall continue. The other Members have told you so. Why? Are the reasons technical? It's the old people's fault again? What about the old ones? You know, this little fairy tale can't take you away. I conclude by saying that this is where the colleagues who are your party and IANELs come here to cry and ask for protection for pensioners. He's like the man who went to court and said, I'm an orphan, Mr. President, and he had killed his father. Why? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. They are asking for what the Democratic Alliance has long tabled both a proposal for a law and amendments and permanently deny it. He's gonna get the messed up to 1,500 euros. You got it all kicked out! The tax-free, the irresponsible, the cuts, the NSAs, everything! You've equalized everything. You are, as Mr Kegeroglu said, the best memorialists. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Don't answer us like that again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being held from the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, twenty-three Greek American students and students of the University of New York. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u42	I was accused of political cowardice. I would expect you to answer the substance of what I have developed. And I would really like to see Mr Kegeroglu say to me, since he went through the appropriate portfolio - what percentage had been digitized, which if we had left it a little bit, would end in 2016, when you said. How far had it been digitised by the digitalisation programme of all previous years? Was it more than 5%, which would suddenly happen as soon as the government got 100%, and we prevented it? Where and where? The worst thing that cost too much and never worked. On the contrary, people were hired to do digitalisation and are being channelled to other kinds of party needs and instead of working on digitisation they did other things, in the meantime the agencies and the Ministry with a reduction of employees and officials. And instead of responding to your dentistry about those who I have with numbers and absolute loyalty have demonstrated, you repeat the same lies and you falsify what I have said. What I said in the words 'deprived the services' you have translated it into underestimation on my part of officials and officials that they are not working, while I said otherwise, that you must praise them and stand by them in this effort too. It's not dead, it's commendable. I'm looking at you for constant lies, which is ultimately your permanent refuge. Do you disagree with the bonus? Why all together are you saying, "Bone for what?" Say it, if you disagree, because I don't want to go out in the loudspeaking way that you talk and say directly that you don't want the bonus to be given to the people who will work in the afternoons. I therefore ask you, at least in the end, to say: are you against the financial support for those who work above, so that these obligations can come out? Half are those who were before, and we really need to strengthen those who will be spending time and afternoons in order to get these pensions out. The abolition of the thresholds was not done with Circular Haikalis. Mr L.4336, who has required us to vote, has thus set the amount of pension. And that is why I repeat that with Mr.4387 we have kept our promise, the promise that we have made since then that we will change things. These pensions, indeed, are increased by about EUR 300 in relation to Law4336, which you insisted to vote on. There is no possibility that we should not try to change these things and, in fact, directly with the new provisions of L.4387. The completion of the digitisation will take place. And it will take place in the next period through the unification of the institutions themselves, and the dossiers now gather to the ECA, the Single Social Security Agency. So there is no reason to talk about a situation which actually slowed down the rate of pensions, because successive insurance has had this effect, this result, to gather from different insurance funds, and now it is all in the Single Social Security Agency. I have to explain to you that every computer system operates on the basis of the rules of law that we have before us for implementation. No.4387 has made completely different provisions, and these provisions go into the computerization system, for pensions to be issued. You also falsified the relevant circular on supplementary pensions still issued, because there are old obligations, until January 2015. The circular neither suspended nor suspended pensions. In no case did that happen, and it is one of the lies you have channelled to the media, that those who received supplementary pensions will be called upon to return them. Nothing falseer! And self-proofly, because what the circular says is that the pensions already issued with the old provisions will be recalculated with the new ones and will in many cases be increased in the granting of these pensions. However, the new law, Law No.4387, which prevented the zero deficit clause and the disastrous consequences of its application to supplementary pensions which had already been greatly reduced, must be applied by law. Mr. Metarakis, you have to agree with yourself. What will be a hundred and thirty - nine thousand pensions or three hundred thousand?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u43	I said three hundred and twenty-seven thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u44	You say three hundred twenty-seven, another one said three hundred forty-seven. Well, that can't be. Already the questioners of the Democratic Association have precisely defined the amount: One hundred and thirty - nine thousand instead of sixty thousand five hundred who were still on your day. It's less. Everyone says so. You insist on three hundred and thirty-seven. This line of lies that the New Democracy has after the 'truth Agreement' that we have never seen, cannot falsify numbers which the side of the wings that are opposition to the government itself accurately admits. There's not that number. And finally, do not constantly repeat falsehoods which you think will become believers, such as what you say we have slaughtered the insured, because we receive them too much contributions. You're still insisting on saying that when everyone knows what they're paying for. And we have said that the positive result of the increase in the income of the Social Security Agency will enable us in the next period to find solutions to those charges which are excessively burdened with these contributions. It is the government's duty to implement, as the plan to halt the fall in the social security system and to regain the powers of the single social security institution is to be completed every day, which we achieve with the steps we have and the financial management of the single social security institution. But the more you lie, the more our truth seems. Because farmers find the truth and they know it, which is why every month they go and pay their contributions. And they can pay it. 90% of the farmer's population goes every month and pays these contributions, despite its habits. And free professionals now know that. In your neighborhood, don't you have any shops to ask how much it pays? Why me, because I started to say I don't understand what I see, or my people lie to me, wherever I go, I have the habit of asking now, "What are you paying for a contribution?" And everyone tells me, 'A very small amount'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u45	Are they still asking you on the street to pay more?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u46	"They applaud us," we never said. You will tell me again that I was saying that I was being applauded. I say the more you lie, the more our truth seems. And it seems how unreliable the policy that you promise of the future is, because you actually say nothing of what you might be able to do in response to what we support and implement. Be sure that in the next period the Social Security Institution, EVA, will pay the maximum. It is constantly organised, integrated and more facilitated by insured persons. And these results will appear slowly - slowly more and more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, too. We move on to the tenth Question No 1177/5-7-2017, topical question by Mr Mikhail Jeleli to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the subject: "The situation in the procedures for the retirement of young retired farmers and farmers". Please, Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, with Law No.4387, known as the 'Katrugalos', you also voted for the creation of the Single Social Security Agency, by the FBI. His hastily and accelerating implementation since the beginning of 2017 proved to be without a plan, so EKA is evolving into a permanent source of creating serious problems. Thus, we had the same result as the insured farmers in the OGA. With the dissolution of the OGA and its incorporation into the EFCA, there is currently confusion, anxiety and farmers are in absolute darkness. Why? Because the 1950-born farmers, who should retire on 1-7-2017, even today, have no serious and responsible information. Today we have 13 July and farmers should have been paid. But they don't know when they'll be paid. And you are very well aware that the insured farmers in the OGA submit their application for retirement because of their old age, with all the necessary supporting documents, at the beginning of the year in which they completed their 67th year of age. That's what they did this time. In fact, they paid in advance the corresponding insurance contributions. For you to know very well how clipping EFKA works, I will tell you this: While on 31-12-2016 the insurance period of all the borns of 1950 ended, EFKA continued to send them monthly insurance contributions several months later, which you understood and you packed it up, I can say, quite quickly. At the same time, there was also a confusion over this period with the 60% cut-off, whether it would be about farmers' pensions, if they continued to grow. When it was given by you the clarification that this was going in 2024, it was already too late. It's been four, five months. And many under retirement young farmers have transferred either their rights or even their crops and are today without income. And I would like to ask you, Minister, because of all these problems that have arisen in a social group - because, so far, the OGA has not had any delays in pensions and the farmers have known when they will be paid - the following: When will you be paid - to tell us responsiblely - the 1950-year-olds - young pensioners? And if they cannot be paid directly, is there any intention of making 80% of the advance payment of their entitlement to pension, as is the case for the other social groups of pensioners? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u49	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Jelloney, I think you're asking good faith. But I find you a little impassable, because for farmers I have answered from 2016. And I have answered many times that rights will in no way affect either their pension or their position as retired. In fact, with my circular and my ministerial decision, in response to the then OGA, it was clearly defined - and it also emerged from the law - that farmers from 1-1-2017 are part of what they are concerned with, including the issue of rights. But, before I issued the answerable ministerial decisions, I had said, on the occasion of various questions put by the Democratic Alliance, that there is no way farmers will have any effect because they will declare their rights. And I invited them not to listen to the rumours that were scattered across Greece by various people that they should not make statements because they would be cut off by pensions. I was saying that it is not going to happen, but unfortunately the government responsible is not listening. Those who constantly disperse false news are heard. And so as not to forget, tell Mr Kegeroglu that it is a new term for which he spoke and is slowly introduced - beside 'fake news'. And it is good to be - at least here in Parliament - sincere on the issues that we are facing for the Greek people and the problems that the Greek people really face. And now come to your question. Not everyone was given pensions in July. They were always given during the next few months until December. This year we have four thousand more pensions to farmers than in previous years, over the last two years. And to be precise, two thousand over three hundred pensions have been granted since 2016 and three thousand more pensions since 2015. It is clear that L.4387 is currently separating two periods for calculating the pensions of farmers. One part at the moment is about 94% with the old provisions and 6.20% is with the new provisions. This year, 6.20% will become 12.30% and each year this relationship will move towards Law.4387, changing the rates. It is clear that the implementation of the Integrated Information System, which takes out pensions in the ECA, needs this information to be specified and can make it applicable, as for all pensioners, because it is no longer issued by the ECA, as it used to be, but by the new system. This has indeed led to a delay - I admit it, so - and we have a thousand pensions in August. Last year four or five thousand had been given - I do not remember - during this period. In September four thousand pensions will be provided and every one of the next few months will be given by three thousand. In other words, at the end of December, we will have granted fourteen thousand pensions. That's the design. I think that this design is successful. In fact, I will be very careful to monitor whether the systems will deliver these objectives. They are objectives that I think we should achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Jelloney, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am not indisputable. You probably don't follow or know the issues about the rights or the law that you voted on. Firstly, the old pensioners did not have any issue. Secondly, I have addressed you to the young retired farmers. When did you remove the circular that they too joined in 2014? Fifteen days ago. We've got July. Since January young retired farmers have not known what they will do. Do you think they have confidence in the leaks from the government? None. I personally tabled questions on several occasions. The last one was on May 23rd and still not answered. That's why I made her timely. So don't say we're indisputable, not even good-for-nothing. On the other hand, I am amazed that you are now putting one programming and saying that in August you will pay about a thousand pensions, in September another three thousand and finish in December. These farmers are retired. But you knew that retired farmers had to retire 1-7-2017. What are you doing six months now? What's the programming? Now you're running to get relevant circulars on how these pensions come out. In fact, there is still no clarity in relation to farmers who either have successive insurance in other funds or have insurance abroad too. It would also be advisable to provide clarification here to start working on the part of the competent authorities, if you could prevent your pensions from being paid in 2017. Here, Minister, there is really a serious social problem. I have stressed this repeatedly, so we have asked these topical questions, the questions more ahead than two, three months. We are talking about Greek farmers, who because of their blurred landscape, were forced to transfer rights and property. They're having a survival problem right now. At least make sure for these thousands of farmers that 80% be given as an advance in order to be able to survive and leave the designs on paper. They won't let you out. Here we go again. I wish you'd come out. But you are well aware that even today, the regional branches of the former OGA have not even started the process, they have not even introduced into the system how many pensioners are, they have not come out of the circles concerned, and what is going to happen with success and what is going on with those who have insurance abroad. In fact, I call for this social group of farmers not to be treated as we have heard before, with the large number of outstanding pensions in the other social classes. Here, while there was no problem, a major topic is being created, socially now in the Greek region.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u53	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u54	Mr. Jellocky, because you're upset I told you goodwill, I'm not gonna do it again, I'm not gonna say you're well-paid again. First of all, I did not expect you to say what you said in your dentistry. Income can be paid by farmers. They were farmers, farmers, fishermen. They can continue to work as they were working and live well, taking a pension extra, increasing their income. There's no removal here. It's the only charge, which here...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u55	Why didn't you take off the circular earlier? Five months was on the air.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u56	Listen, Mr. Jelloney. You and your other colleagues from the Opposition are making sure that false news is dispersed throughout the country that pensions are to be cut, despite my repeated assurances that they will not be cut and that there is no question of linking rights to pensions. The man in charge of committing is me, it's not you. But my voice was hidden from the Greek people. It didn't sound anywhere. It was yours and all those who were making sure to sow the panic and cause this damage. In this way I declared my grief and my anger to other my placements, because you cause such damage to this world and falsify the truth and push them into not making statements. And now you come and complain why you misled them - rather many, I don't know, you know how many - and they didn't make statements. And you ask me why they didn't. Because you lied to them. That's why they didn't. 80% won't give it. We'll give 100%. And we'll give 100% of the world to ruin by the end of the year. As the former OGA did, that's what's going to happen with the EFCA now. There is an obligation on our insured people to do our job properly, with new systems and new calculations. And the sums paid in 2017, as wrongly paid, will be reimbursed to all farmers entitled to a pension in 2017 as insured persons in 1950. Therefore, this amount will also be repaid for those who paid this amount in 2017. Listen to the other good news and finally support the good things we do. The suffering of the insured who sought pension as farmers and who were cut by the OGA in the past, because he did not see in the relevant tax sheet that an income was declared agricultural or livestock, is over. With formal insurance, everyone gets a pension. This adventure is over, and we need to see how we solve the problems that the policy of previous years has created in these people. Therefore, Mr Jelloney, your question was the only good one, and I hope the media will show it once again. I hope so! And if they show your lies, which are responsible for everything that has happened for those who do not make statements, they will make time for them. I hope people didn't lose much of the damage you caused them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u57	We move to the second with No 1206/11-7-2017 a topical question from the Member of Parliament, Evros, New Democracy, Anastasios Prussias, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Serious problems in the functioning of the TWG (local Improvement Agency)". In his question, Mr. Prussakis will answer Mr. Kokkalis, the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food. Here you go, Mr. Publics. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Undersecretary, the flooding phenomena of 2014-2015 in Evros caused great damage, great disasters, which were really unprecedented, since our region had to deal with similar things for thirty years. Local authorities as a whole, together with residents, were mobilised immediately. They secured the required appropriations and restored the damage that was really crucial in terms of the impurities both along the River Evros and along the coasts of Ardas and Red Crescent of the Dumotich. The intense weather phenomena have also destroyed infrastructure around our irrigation system, but at the same time they have destroyed, with soaring materials, entire farming areas. Also, with fertilizers they filled all channels, which, as you know, are used for irrigating earths. The local TWGs and GFCFs - for those who are following us - and the General Organisation for the Improvement of Vocational Training in the Orestiad have lifted the burden of restoring the disaster, which has been suffered by the infrastructures of these regions, but without any result as a whole. The tax and tax raid, which you have actually unleashed on agricultural income, has the effect of failing the rural world to respond to the payment of contributions. TWGs and GFCF are now weakened, as the source of their revenues is agricultural levies. This means that they cannot meet their obligations and also cannot pay PPC's debts. There's a risk of stopping electricity. After all, I also asked you a written question, where in the written answer you gave us, you informed us that the Ministry of Rural Development could provide financial support for these agencies and, in particular, for border regions, in terms of maintenance, administration, supervision and compensation for damage. Unfortunately, however, so far you have not taken action. So you have to tell us what initiatives you will take to fund TWGs and GEOBs and what you will do with the issue of dues to PPC. Is there a plan for restoring infrastructure, canals, dams, as well as agricultural parcels, which have sand dunes? In fact, in Soufly, it's obvious whoever goes through our area. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u59	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u60	As you are well aware, the work of the last improvements falls exclusively within the competence of the Greek State through the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, as well as the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. This Ministry, through the Improvement Bodies, is responsible for the operation, maintenance of the projects. Operational and maintenance costs shall be covered by the irrigation fees paid by the beneficiaries. First of all, we must make a little clear as to the damage that was, in fact, very large and extensive in 2014-2015. ELGA is responsible for the crops. As far as PPC is concerned, the IMPs come under the agricultural reduced tariff. And those who have asked for the settlement of debts have succeeded with PPC, that is, with regard to the termination of electricity. Let's go see what he's done in 2015 and 2016, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and the address for damage recovery and what he's going to do. First, in 2016, the Ministry ensures that public participation in the costs of administration, operation and maintenance of OEM jurisdictional works, when the project is in a development period or in border areas, as well as that of public participation in the costs of restoring flood damage or other cause. In this context, a joint ministerial decision by the Ministry of Rural Development and the Ministry of Finance was adopted in 2016, which approved the sum of EUR 40 000, based on Law 414/76, to restore or prevent flood damage in the GEOB's Cancer Works in the Prefecture of Evros. In 2015, a total of EUR 168,000 were approved for the Evros Prefecture. In detail, 100,000 euros were approved at the Orestiada GEOV, 9000 euros at the TEV of northern Arda, 20,000 euros at the TEV of Evros, 9000 euros at the TEV of Lagynos, 25 000 euros at the TEV of the Orestiada and 14 000 euros at the TEV Tychrome of the Regional Unit of Evros. For this year, no request has been made, Mr Papoutsis, and it is a good occasion for your timely question to pass on to the institutions our invitation to submit the relevant requests, because the responsible authority if the request is established and demonstrated by relevant documents and documentary evidence that they have been harmoniously affected. Also, in the Regional Unit of Evros, it was allocated from the common autonomous resources of 2016 to cover expenditure amounting to EUR 3,277,000. As far as the rest of you are concerned, what initiatives have the Government taken with regard to the IMPs, I shall be placed in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u61	Please, Mr Prussakis, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, as the Ministry of Rural Development through a circular, you made the announcement of the Ministry's availability. Why don't you do it for 2017? One is that. Secondly, we do not know what our people, the farmers, who are known to be members of the administrative boards, are going to have to ask for your own financial support, financing, as you are due to and as you have described in the relevant law, but also in the written answer. To be here, however, and turn a written question into a timely one means that our problems have not been addressed. The loose ends are still, since we are discussing this, you can issue a circular of your Ministry, which will be addressed to the TEIs and GEOBs of Evros. At the same time, however, I believe that they will also be informed through this process. The messing of irrigation and draining channels, filling of drilling from fertiliser materials is too intense. I would ask you very much to plan a visit either you or your two ministers to see closely that in order to restore one of the distortions of the dunes that I have mentioned, 2 000 euros are needed. The value of the area is EUR 600. You realize that these people do not have the tolerance to restore the cultivating land they have until now had in their hands. And you have to take the initiative as a competent ministry and solve fixed problems and demands that have actually been created because of the flooding phenomena. I would also like to inform you, Mr President, and this House that 80% of the farmed land of Evros is being cultivated. 60% of this farmed land is irrigated. Since the Greek state is currently preparing the use of the new ESRB programme, you should include areas which, in fact, have a need for irrigation and there is the technical possibility, both in the area of Orestiad and in the areas of the Twin wall, Soufli, Tycheros, Ferra and Alexandroupolis. They need it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u63	Please complete it, Mr. Prisoner.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u64	Yes, Mr. President, I'm closing. I would like to tell you that the Evros catchment area and its plain are the largest in the Balkans and it can feed half of Greece. I think the bet's big. And you, since you come from a region of the camp of Thessaly, I think you understand the added value it will have for our region. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, as regards the new requests for new projects, the Office of the Ministry of Rural Development collects the requests so that they can be included in measure 4.3.1. Infrastructural improvements to the Rural Development Programme. For those which, however, have been damaged, Mr.Police, you said before that "as you made available in 2015 and 2016 the relevant sums, to make them available now". If no request is made, how will money be made available? I told you, I repeat, that no request was made for 2017. Where the request is submitted and is founded on damage documents, the department and the Ministry shall be close and shall be satisfied, first. Secondly, you referred to the initiatives taken by the Government concerning the management of the IMPs and TWGs. Now I have to say that both GFCM and TWG are indebted. They had a mismanagement. They need staff. They needed staff to do these works both to Evros and Larissa, everywhere. He wants engineers and geoponns. This is why an amendment was tabled in March 2017, which was finally incorporated into Law 4456/2017 and received Article 46 under the heading: "Projects and Improvements Bodies Regulations". With this article we allow OEBs to hire staff without the exception of Law 3833/2010 to do the works. And your party did not vote for this amendment, which facilitates the OEBs. Soon there will be an amendment to the recovery of the debts, on the one hand to protect producers and, on the other, to preserve the sustainability of these agencies. We hope that you will vote on this amendment. Because when we are really interested in issues of general interest, such as farmers, we must also know what we have done. We have told you: Firstly, we have allocated these sums to repair damage. Submit the requests and we will be with you. Secondly, for the OEB, we make it easier for the staff. Thirdly, the amendment soon. And because you mentioned the tax policy on farmers, I would remind you that the principal farmer's profession with Law No.4337/2016 has a tax credit, Mr. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, too. I have the honour to announce to the House that the Ministers for Home Affairs, Economy and Development, Work, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, Finance, Health, Administrative Reconstruction, Environment and Energy, Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Shipping and Island Policy, Infrastructure and Transport, Tourism, Migration Policy, Rural Development and Food, Culture and Sport, Deputy Ministers of Home Affairs, Economy and Energy, Environment and Energy, Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, as well as the Minister of Finance, have submitted a draft law on 12-7-7-7-2017: ‘Adjustments to modernise the institutional framework for the operation and operation of Municipal Operations for Swamping (U.S.A.)’. - Arrangements relating to the organization, operation, financial and personnel of the O.T.A. - European Groupings for Territorial Cooperation - Citizens' Register and other provisions'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. In addition, SYRIZA's colleague, Konstantinos Dousinas, is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad from Tuesday 18 July to Wednesday 19 July 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u68	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Before entering the legislative agenda, we interrupt our meeting for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK One discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Association of the management of intellectual property rights and related rights, the granting of multi-territorial licences for online use of musical works and other matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Culture and Sport". The above bill was identified by the Government as an urgent one, and the competent Permanent Committee on Formats Affairs accepted by a majority as an emergency, in accordance with Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 10 July 2017 to discuss the draft law at one to two single meetings in principle, articles and amendments. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u70	The House therefore agreed. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mr Skouriakos, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u71	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the bill on collective management of intellectual property rights and related rights. This is a draft law, which incorporates the 2014 European Directive and succeeds in the 20-year-old N.2121/1993 that closed its operational time. The data has changed, the tools are different and we need a new law that guarantees transparency, accountability and participation in a landscape, really, tested and afflicted. This Legislation concerns seventeen organisations active in the collection and distribution of intellectual and related rights of their members. They're associations of actors, directors, scriptors, photographers and others. It also concerns Greek peculiarity, originality, pathogens called GNI, a private company, which since 1935 has managed the rights of composers and stigmatists in a transparent and arbitrary manner. This peculiarity burdened the bill and admittedly made it famous. So bypassing a landscape of arbitrariness and non-legality comes for the first time in this bill to bring authors first to the fore, to make them decisive in exploiting their talent, inspiration and work. I repeat: for the first time! The bill encourages control of agencies, not only by the state that supervises them, but also by the authors themselves who must know the course, followed by the results of the economic exploitation of their rights. With this draft law, the state, for its part, increases supervision of collective management organisations and imposes strict sanctions on those who do not comply with the conditions of the law, such as fines in cases of breach of transparency and accountability rules, but also temporary or definitive withdrawal of the agency's authorisation. There were also in the previous law, but unfortunately - most rarely, I would say - they were being implemented. The draft law, which we are debating today adds an additional administrative control measure to the agencies, the possibility of defining a resolution commission to a collective management organisation or an independent management entity as a last resort before the final withdrawal of its licence, with the sole aim of protecting the rights of authors. It imposes on everyone, even on those agencies, who have so far managed to escape the law, transparency, accountability and good administration, so as to protect the creators and ensure the money they are entitled to. A key change - reform is that collective management organisations, regardless of their legal form, must provide for the general meeting of their members and the creation of a supervisory board to be elected by the assembly in order for beneficiaries to know and participate actively in the administration and control of the agencies. The organisations manage the rights and money of the authors. So it is time for the creators themselves to have a say for the first time. The second major change in the landscape to date is how a 20% limit is introduced to the management expenditure of the agencies. which in some cases reached 30%, 35%, 37% - there is a body that retains 50% of the wages paid by authors as a commission - which ultimately operates as speculative companies. This figure, in addition, is in line with recent judicial decisions, 20%, imposes good management of money collected by the agencies, leading to excessive operating expenses and overpriced wages on management. Furthermore, if it is appropriate to ensure the viability of the collective management organisation, the AACC, is able to exceed 20% of the administrative costs, but the general meeting and the supervisory board assent is required, together with a report setting out the issue and justifying the increase. In addition, transparency is ensured in the revenues from the use of the creators’ projects, because they will now be deposited in separate bank accounts from the company’s assets and attributed to the beneficiaries without delay. So it will be clear what belongs to the company and what belongs to the beneficiaries. We consider it important that each transaction should be provided by means of a bank or electronic means, so that there is full transparency. For the first time. Rules are also being managed and used by unnecessarily. They are rates of creators, not found or sought, so that they are not used to cover other purposes of the company, unknown to the creators. Let me say that we deliberately have cases where Sueman's 3 million-dollar project refers. Wrongly mentions the project title. And how many times did this Suman play on radios to raise 3 million-dollar rights, which are sprinkling on the company's fund and are used as a beam? We'll talk about this later. That is why we say that the intellectual and related property bill, which we are discussing today, was also called on to deal with a problem that haunts the country for years now. It is the Greek, as we have said, peculiarities that arouses both the creators and those who make use of their works. It is the Anonymous Intellectual Property Company, the well-known "GDP", which was founded in 1935. Immediately after the January 2015 elections, the new government expresses its willingness to lay rules in this dark landscape and is faced with a crossword table for incredibly powerful solvers, as I have said before. Those who have dealt with the drafting of the bill on copyright and related rights, and the Minister at her office and we have discussed it with everyone: composers, lyricists, singers individually, but also with their teammates, with the same "GPI", whoever had something to do with the subject. We've already known a lot. We heard and learned even more. There were complaints that the GSP, while receiving large sums, yielded little. How some members of her board are paid richly. So is the administration, which belongs to a family. We have received the wrath for its practices, but also the anguish of the authors and their heirs not to close the cliff that fuels, even anemicly, their large majority. However, all this was in the sphere of unproven information, until the conclusion of the special management check for the "GSPD" was reached, ordered by Mr. Aristides Baltas and Nikolaos Xydakis from their then government posts. The investigation was carried out by ERNST AND YOUNG HELLAS for the period 2011-2014. In fact, it was necessary to impose with the help of the prosecutor and after a fine had been imposed on the company, which refused to provide evidence. Indeed, the remuneration of members of the Board of Directors is high. The owner, for example, collected sums for this period, ranging from EUR 514.061 to EUR 625.565 per year. In other words, four other members of the Board of Directors, the family, received funds from EUR 44,109 to EUR 466,266. The total remuneration of the Board of Directors, of the same family as we have said, for all these years amounts to EUR 7,434,976 in the middle of an economic crisis. Of course, someone's gonna argue that an anonymous company is making money the way he owns it. Let us respond to the moral level alone, unfortunately, to all those who represent and whose inspiration, talent and work manage whether it is fair to them. However, there are also more formal violations of the law: interest-free loans and other benefits to members of the Board of Directors, of the family as we have said, in the form of loan contracts, which is explicitly prohibited by the law on public limited companies. However, large amounts were disbursed as loans. Even worse, the culprit revealed that around "GSPI" had set up a company festival, which belonged to the same persons and traded exclusively with her. Companies that, with over-calculations of their services and other arrangements at the limits of legality are now sound, profitable and have created great property. We have only recently learned about the property in Thessaloniki that was purchased two years ago, I think, with the money of the "GDP", that is to say, to end up with one of its four subsidiaries, the "ESYS S.A.". However, the mother company that distributes astronomical amounts to its administration and powers satellite companies, not just a healthy company, but is on the side of the disaster. It has 19.9 million negative funds, which means that it is unable to repay its obligations to creators and other beneficiaries. At the same time, it has raised EUR 46 million from undistributed funds, which correspond to the various Sumberts, as I said before. This is money for rights whose beneficiaries were not found or sought. So the Minister of Culture, Mrs. Connordos, sent the conclusion to the prosecutor, justice will do its duty, the state must do itss. This bill submitted by the Ministry of Culture incorporates the European directive and at the same time protects, gives voice and ability to control the intellectual and related creators. In addition, in the event of bankruptcy, the companies are responsible for their safe management. Ladies and gentlemen, the 'GDP', its conclusion and its problem is another thing and the government's bill is another thing, in the sense that it also concerns the other seventeen agencies that are active in the area. Finally, this bill ensures, for the first time after eighty years, the essential protection and the reason for artists, who literally spend their lives at the mercy of those who care for them without them. There are also complaints, of course, from the user side, from the other parties involved. They're denounced arbitrariness by the company, exorbitant invoices, suing industry. They're, they say, self-defense for 100 euros or for 200 euros. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a bill of sincere equilibrium. It balances the intense contradictions that exist, it has accumulated the individual differences between copyright and related rights, it has succeeded in taking care of both the creator and the user, whether the user has a café on the border, whether he has a bar in Mykonos, or the creator-taker has a multitude club fan, or he is a humble creator of a very small repertoire. Integrating many such proposals from the various alleged and their actors, which we have discussed throughout this entire time, who have been exemplary, mild and essentially working together with us throughout the period and in yesterday's hearing of actors, we see that it is a model of care for creators and justice for users. Ladies and gentlemen, the creators now come to the fore. Because if there were no spiritual production and property, non-profit collectives and private companies would not exist. With transparency, therefore, everything is being informed and intervened wherever and when necessary in order to defend their spiritual hardship and economic gains. Justice in the field of copyright, which has been demanded all these years, is finally restored. So I urge you to vote in favour of this bill, inaugurating a new era in the field of copyright and related rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u72	Thank you to SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Pano Skourico. I now ask the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Olga Kefaloyannis, to take the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, if you asked me in January 2015 to tell you an area where the new left government at the time - I would for obvious reasons exclude the ANELs - could have some positive effects, I would say spontaneously and with great openness to culture. Not because it's an easy field, otherwise. It is an extremely difficult, demanding and complex area, which requires systematic work, great persistence and open minds, away from ideas of all kinds and obsessions. Nor, of course, because you had a specific programme for culture, a project to be implemented. But you had, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, systematically and very carefully cultivated a beautiful myth of another alleged superiority, another advantage, a powerful tradition that was demolished very quickly as a paper tower. The successive crises that you have created in the field of culture bear witness to. I could never believe that within two and a half years you could do so few good and so many bad things in culture. The list is long and I do not want to expand so that I do not lose the essence of the debate. But I could never imagine that you have been so disappointed, many, serious, by the left-hand area, people so fast. Legislative teratogenicity, which we are discussing today, which concerns copyright, is the top, the crowning of a major overall failure. Any good intentions were lost very quickly in a cloud of problems that overshadowed everything. Party centralism, conflicts of interest, lack of contact with reality, indifference to problems, arrogance, more and more, a peculiar committee of the party in the current Minister, which I do not know if he wants it, but it certainly cannot escape it. In spite of all the ten years I have been in this House, I will need the help of older parliamentarians, to look for a bill like this, which we are debating today in plenary, a bill which has been degraded in the most revealing way during the process of hearing the bodies in the committee, a bill which is awkwardly difficult to defend and convince us about its aims and its effectiveness. No argument, no strategy for defending him, especially now, after the decisive contribution of all the actors that have restored your monstrosity. A bill, which brings to the attention of the government almost all Greek creators and users. I would also like to repeat in plenary a fundamental question which, under no circumstances has been answered during the proceedings in committee, although it has been raised by many colleagues and, of course, by many authors. It is worth wondering how a harmonisation of the national law of a Community directive, how a correct, parallel move by the then Deputy Minister of Culture Mr. Xydakis to control the "GSPD" has evolved into a major problem for the interior of SYRIZA, a major problem of government credibility vis-à-vis both authors and users. How does a bill, which has been given the consultation since December 2015, take three Ministers for Culture and so long to end up here that it ended up? How does a bill that has passed successfully since consultation have earned the confidence of the interested parties, finally withdrawing, disappearing, mutated into something different and presenting us today as an incomprehensible legislative monstrate? Questions remain: Why was Balta bill withdrawn in July 2016? What's going on? Where did the pressures come from? Who is the reason for this withdrawal? Who's benefiting from this withdrawal? All questions are solved, if you look carefully at the changes of the two texts, the Balta text of July 2016 and today. These changes relate to, photograph and indicate the ‘LPIS’. All the questions will be solved to you, ladies and gentlemen, very quickly, very easily, when you listen carefully to the complete degradation of this incredible history that endangers the entire Greek creators, who plays with the future of Greek song, the biopolitics of Greek creators, the fate of thousands of people. The red line for us was clear and clear from the beginning. Transparency, accountability, defence of the public interest, harmonisation with the Community Directive and resolution of the ENP. None of this is served. That is why we stand with arguments and absolute certainty against this negative legislative act of yours. Ladies and gentlemen, since Tuesday when his debate started, we have stressed the need for all the bodies to be called in full. We have said that there are new provisions which had not even been passed by consultation, such as the provisions of Article 55(3) and (4), changed provisions, incorrect provisions, clipboard regulations, which did not serve the objective of incorporating the Community directive. We have stressed that they will add more problems than they are coming to solve. They will bring to dead-end artists, users, all interested parties with incalculable consequences. Where we were looking positively, we pointed it out to you. A characteristic example is the regulation of Internet piracy, which actually came to fill a legislative gap. From the moment on, we have explained that in relation to collective management organisations, the AACC, there has been a somewhat copying, without a particular drafting of the directive, which provides security and transparency. On the contrary, in relation to the EAFRD, it appears that the adjustment is not sufficient. We have said that there is no justification for the adoption by Article 51 of a rule of law which separates AEOs with a dominant position. We asked you questions which you did not answer and which I would remind you once again. Why are ATOs better protected in a dominant position? Why don't you protect everyone? Why don't you set transparency criteria for everyone? We have asked you to make it clear to us whether there is equal treatment of rights and privileges and special treatment for obligations. We've been celebrating weaknesses to improve them. We asked you to tell us if you have a plan to reorganise the ETA and what is the case for distribution to the beneficiaries. You didn't answer any of this. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's hearing committee was really revealing. It was a day when bodies representing users, creators and other interested parties were trying within a limited time, as a result of the urgent process that you selected, to explain to you the problems that need to be addressed. They told you directly how much they need to change in this draft law in order to be fair and effective for all. Your attitude to all this storming appearance of bodies was the least awkward. You could not support the bill that you, Minister, finally bring to the vote. Lack of arguments, lack of answers, lack of a central position in the many problems that have arisen and dozens of actors who have confirmed our positions, that is, this draft law does not serve its objectives. The issues that emerged were even more than what we imagined at the beginning. The bodies have told you that it is not enough to incorporate the Community directive, that two speeds are created, that the ‘ESDP’ status exists in no other European Union country, that you are more supportive of the ‘ESDP’ than the authors in this draft law. They told you about improving the functioning of the Supervisory Board, about the form of the first supervisory body, so that there would be no exclusions for the number of its members as well. We talked in detail about Article 45, because while it should have provided for compulsory negotiations between collective management organisations representing music and representative users, you retain the article at the same time, but in such a way that it becomes inactive, weakened, adding more problems than it is going to face, as, among other things, the mediation committee, which was set up between the negotiations with the rightholders and the court of appeal, which would have the know-how to propose remuneration for the whole country. Who will now decide the pay for the whole country? The courtroom? With what expertise? At the previous stage, a detailed opinion was provided for in the mediation committee. And that was the value of the committee, namely that there should be a committee of experts and involved bodies, which could issue an opinion which would make it easier for the appeal court to reach a proper fair and balanced decision. The procedure is now optional, and it should be compulsory. So we're gonna live through chaotic situations, just like I exposed them to you and analyzed them yesterday. In fact, at a time when the question of public execution has been regulated in other countries by means of appropriate compulsory procedures. The necessary corrections must be made, Minister. We have been informed of paragraph 2 in Article 55. In particular, given that a recommendation is expected to be adopted, which harmonises and harmonises the rules for the introduction and collection of fees for authors for their private reproduction, it is perfectly reasonable for our country to wait for this recommendation to be adopted by the European Commission first before it comes to legislate. Also, on 11 July the European Parliament's Committee on Culture adopted its opinion and the amendments to the draft Intellectual Property Rights Directive in the digital single market. Why should we legislate on something that can be changed tomorrow and be inconsistent? For Article 55 and paragraphs 3 and 4, because you said yesterday that you were going to make some changes, I will not be placed, even though it is unheard of that the abolition of copyright by authors and publishers with regulations that have not even passed public consultation. And after all of this, which we heard in the hearing committee and discussed, from the notes from the bodies we have read which could not be called because of the urgent procedure, it remains the question that I will repeat: What made you disappear in an unprecedented way, a draft law which from yesterday's procedure seemed to have been in the right direction. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The ghost of the first Balta plan is still on top of you and will be misled for much longer with the shadows and the questions about its withdrawal. The interested parties have explained that the elephant in the room is called "SPE" and you refuse to see it until now. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] We are telling you that under no circumstances is the tripartite which we have set as our basic principle: transparency, accountability and the defence of the public interest. And we asked you to move forward, even slowly, to the critical changes needed to save the lost price of Greek creators. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the second part of the draft law, concerning other provisions of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, which you found the opportunity to make a package of intellectual and related rights, in order to cover the legislative and political immobility of so many months...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, why don't you close the bell?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u75	The bell is ringing, you know, because it has not been requested - which I will, of course, provide with very great comfort - a renewal of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u76	Because you automatically gave him to the majority rapporteur, I thought that you would automatically give him to the rapporteur of the Officer's Response.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u77	I asked, it didn't happen automatically.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u78	It's done automatically, Mr. Darkness.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u79	You ask as much time as you want...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u80	All right, Mr President, if you want me to ask you to do this, I will. Mr President, because the bill is too big, I'm going to need some more time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u81	We ask, Mrs. Kefaliannis, as long as we want...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u82	I need three more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u83	Very good. You've got it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u84	The common denominator for these arrangements is that you should have dealt with issues that you found ready from the previous government, but you left them and arrived two and a half years later to talk about them. The most important thing is this, which concerns the state guarantee, an outstanding one that had to be regulated, as it applies to most countries in the European Union. The layout has been prepared since 2014. He was about to enter the House. The election of the President of the Republic took place, so it did not go any further. We note that he was ready to surrender to the new leadership of the Ministry of Culture and Sport since January 2015, as well as the provision for the modernisation of the State School of Orchestra Art. It repeats almost this provision, which we also delivered to you in 2015, and which was to be introduced into the same draft law with the state guarantee. The other provisions mainly regulate technical issues for the operation of the services and organizations of the Ministry of Culture and Sport and many repeat our own institutional framework, which required updates or supplements or things that you have changed and restored to the previous situation. However, at this point, I could not go into this unscrupulous, irresistible momentum to table amendments. We have told you in committee too, and indeed at the very beginning. The issues are so many, so important. Put a cutter on the amendments. The fact that the Minister has not decided for so long to deal with the legislative work does not mean that we must have this process, which further downgrades Parliament's function. Besides, if you are going to discuss any of these matters, you would have made sure you were involved in time. The same goes for, I am making it clear, for the parliamentary amendments, that disgraceful piece of legislation, which you have recently decided to adopt and which we will not follow. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of today's debate and the vote of the bill you take a very great responsibility towards the Greek creators, artists, writers, intellectuals, literary and arts people, a responsibility which has to do with the present and the future of these people. I don't want to be a master of bad news, but I'm afraid the problems are ahead of us. Soon you are at risk of being called to manage a major crisis in the area of rights, if not you personally. And, unfortunately, it is also the basic conclusion of this exhaustive process that your bill does not solve, as it should have been, problems, but creates even more and does not harmonize, as it could only do with the Community directive, but deregulations in combination with the escalating crisis in the 'GDP'. This critical situation has made us follow a certain path, that of the opposition with concrete proposals and positions that have given you the alternative to settling. You have had the opportunity not to vote for this horror, to protect the authors and users, to lay the foundations for a necessary modernisation that would serve the rights of interested parties and the public interest. You have had the opportunity to proceed with a substantial and definitive clearance of a very unpleasant story. The opportunity, however, has been lost and with it many important things have been lost: valuable time, creators who would support a brave incision, the constant need for transparency, accountability and the service of the public interest. You've failed a lot. And believe me, that makes me very sad. All we can do now is tell you a sure and resounding 'no' to this unprecedented failure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u85	We're on our way with the special speaker of the Democratic Association, Mr. Charia Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, Mr President. I begin with Mrs Conordou's own words. "The time has come for clear rules to be laid down in the functioning of collective management bodies, to be attributed responsibilities and to genuinely to the protection of intellectual creation." And he brought the draft law night to the point of literality, and as usual an emergency. For two years this government has been'symptoming' about copyright. Minister, you have wasted all year and today with an urgent procedure chosen, and Parliament too. You refused the consultation. You obviously feared her very much, and from the result I'm not wrong with you. Were you trying to hide something? Some people serve with this choice? The sure thing is that with what you selected, you do not serve both the creators or the users, except possibly specific SYRIZA preferences. It's a pity so much time, so much pain to give birth to another monstrosity of your government. You're used to us. This is, let's get a hambari, the legislation in SYRIZA: We're waking up, we're talking behind closed doors, we're cooking, we're cooking the bills, we're talking about some of our best friends, and we're serving them warmly with the suggestion that Parliament and the Greek people are quickly swallowing them, on the other hand, who you've been practicing him properly in ham. And like so in the middle of a heater he found his way to Parliament and this bill, the multipath that began last year to come to the House and finally lost the GPS, lost his orientation, lost its three blocks that separate us from the General Accounting Office, and from March last year it ended up in our hands this year. The process is unexplained, and so do you, gentlemen of the government. You continue the same violin of the disgusting legislature, the ridicule of every parliamentary procedure and with a lot of comflamation you do not miss an opportunity to show how much you have all this written in the oldest of your shoes. And it is such a forum that you have taken so much into the disgrace of the parliamentary institutions, even when you do not need that. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you have been overwhelmed by a wave of consensus, or rather - to say this more correctly - a pretext of consensus and agonizing and cutting. What qualifications do you come and talk about consents? With any such bills that drag over a year and set up overnight? Where are you testifying nights and making sure you bring them under express procedures, or are they going to be painless in the dizzy from the summer stars and voted quickly? You remember the moms trying to smash the bitter pill into suspected five-year-olds, and they react. Close your eyes, be patient for three days, as long as the legitimisation process lasts, and then unscrupulously continue. And let us say how insulting these procedures and the way in which you legislate are eventually for all of us. You, because you know very well what you have designed, want a brief torment, because you know that no one will be found to defend you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am sorry that you are obliged to do your own retreat into a parliamentary procedure which has been unsuccessfully chosen by the Ministry and which is exposing you irreparably. You are trying to convince us about the urgency of the bill and bypass any dialogue procedures, any consultation procedures. I wonder: Do you consider it trivial details? As if you have learned or, to be more precise, you have never learned to operate in normality. You alone are energizing the consensus you are looking for on the other hand. Polarization, which you systematically and consciously build, is of interest when one is high. And you've been in a free fall lately. You're sinking to the shallow and unnoticed. I would remind you that this attempt to regulate the landscape of copyright management is a very old story. In our country, any attempt to harmonize with Community law has also been made to the 'ESDP'. No matter how technical it looks, it is so important, because it touches too many and because the money that is being moved is too much to enmity the state, even unwittingly, the interests of a family or some of the favored, whoever they are. And that's where your government's adventure begins. We are August 2015. Mr Xydakis, along with Mr Baltas, dare to proceed with the management of the EMPLOYE. Because of the lack of cooperation of the EGTC, work is 'frozen' before they even begin. And they only start after a fine was imposed in September 2016. The audit shall be completed on 6 February 2017 and shall cover the three years 2011-2015. Yesterday we learned with pleasure from the Commissioner that this check will continue for 2015-2016. The conclusion is revealing, extremely revealing, I would say to you: Negative funds amounting to several million euros and therefore unable to repay its obligations, operating costs higher than its revenues and, therefore, losses and therefore mismanagement and thus go by saying. The reaction of the "GDP" with the deposit of your first bill was the exterior movement of Cyprus. As a public limited company, she looked at her interests and tried to circumvent the legal arrangement of the Ministry, which obviously did not favour it. And the "DEPI" as an anonymous profit company has done very well. She defended her interests and herself. The thing about us is what the state does. On July 5, 2016, another bill, different from this time, is submitted to the Parliament, with the contents of "GSPI" and a few hours after you withdraw it, because you understand the risk of being irreparablely exposed. In 2017, we arrive at a sensibly February 2017 in a new form of a draft law, which is released and announced in the House. At the same time, the unprecedented "GDP" scandal has shone for the good with huge economic interests and with a number of actors to fight from the creators to the last user. Our position is clear from the first hour. We have told you straight away - and we were the only ones - what we consider to be elementary: to move forward immediately in the resolution of the EGTC. The only way is to place a state commissioner. The European directive in Article 36 requires this. You guys had models. We told you to see what is going on in banks and financial institutions and move on. Name him as you think, but, to God, give him enhanced and decisive responsibilities. The objective is not to collapse the EGTC and not to lure almost all creators and users, because this would have incalculable consequences. You made your own choices and today users have stopped paying, with the irregularities of the "GSP". And every day that passes is lost - and you know it very well - money that should have been given to the thousands of hostage creators. The climate at yesterday’s hearing was revealing about the future of the bill. What exhaustive dialogue and what understanding and alleviation? The last argument put forward by the government was to be understood because the consultation had to be overruled. The only certainty we have is that the bill will be passed. It will be voted by the hundred and fifty-three. After all, this is what the government and its ministers bet and do not respect any parliamentary procedure at all. But my question remains. Are you only interested in getting off your shoulders? How do you expect your legislative initiatives to be implemented when they do not respond to the real problems of operators? Aren't you worried that not one person was found to defend your legislation and indeed urged you all to change it? Then explain to me who you're legislating about? Because there was no consultation, because the result has huge problems and even though you will vote, it is not certain that it will be implemented in practice, because the delay was great and you should have been more careful in the consultation, because while the great scandal of the ETA also evolved, because when there is such a serious issue of mismanagement, the scandal that "trained" affects the lives of many people and ultimately outweighs us all, you should have asked for cross-party consultation. Creators don't belong anywhere. They belong only to their art and culture. [[At this point, the warning bell closes the speaking time of the honourable Member]] Mr President, I will need an extra minute beyond twelve minutes. As no Community directive has been incorporated, in addition to a la la la carte which has been cut in the entire bill - we believe that you want to blur the landscape and mislead - we have decided not to continue with this comedy and we are voting against the first part of the bill. However, in this environment and in order that no one is wrong and that there are no interventions from above, we are proposing the creation of an independent IPO, which will actually work as a regulator and not just as a legal person dependent on both the Ministry and its relations with the collective management organisations. However, your lead in parliamentary practices continues and, as you have voted in favour of the Memorandum of Understanding on Fishes, you are currently bringing the harmonization of a Community directive together with provisions on copyright and so on. Absolutely surrealistic procedures! In the second part, therefore, of the bill, there, in the "Other matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Culture" you deal with issues relating to a wide range of supervised bodies of the Ministry of Culture. Illustrations: State School of Orchestra Art, National Museum of Contemporary Art, National Museum of Contemporary Art, Museum of Laika Institutions "Phoivos Anogianakis", Greek Center of Film, Organization of Contemporary Music, Organization of Contemporary Music Athens, Film Archive of Greece, Chamber of Visual Arts of Greece and continue the list. I would therefore like to make a few comments. Observation First: It's about how clipping your leg and legislate. After you have brought any loose ends to your ministry, in this second place, you have forgotten some and since yesterday, a dance of amendments began, with the Greek festival, with the distractions of employees at the Congregation of Music, and I see that also parliamentary amendments today. And that's weird. While you are legislating in Article 72 for the Congregation of Music, you are also bringing an amendment to posting employees to the Congregation of Music. However, this is done deliberately so that you do not "spend" on how much "photographs" you legislate. Observation 2: It is sad to pay so little attention to these bodies that you are slapping them in a bill. We will not even have time to name them, nor will we have time to discuss the issues that are being proposed to legislate. It is unfair for those bodies that have such an important presence not only in your Ministry, but mainly in Greek society, with a great deal of supply and a time-consuming presence. Last comment: It has to do with the government's well-known tactics to leave bills in drawers to eat them, and at some point to present them in a sense. The Minister knows that all the material, covering the second part of the bill, has been given ready by the previous governments. The sure thing is that once again, with the stir of your government's response to important issues, you chose to "close the eye" to your party friends, to blur the landscape, to improve situations, losing another chance to leave something essential behind you. Your tactics learned that, and we and the citizens got bored. That's enough! We are voting against the bill in principle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u87	Thank you. The reason is now the special speaker of the Golden Dawn, Mr Antony Gregos, for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Another bill in the form of an emergency. And the rest of the bills they're coming, that's how they're gonna come. We also denounced it to the committee. We had the opportunity to listen to thirty bodies as long as they could speak. I hear there's some changes. The Minister should inform us what articles are changing and what changes he intends to make, so that we can be informed, even at the last minute. The draft is divided into two parts. The first and most important, Articles 1 to 55, are to amend the institutional framework of the Intellectual Property Act. The change of this law, of Law No 2121/93, as well as of the total legal framework for copyright and related rights of authors, has had to have changed for years and in a unilateral manner from the state's point of view. The disgrace which has existed for years in these organizations and by the "GSPI" - the top of the iceberg - is the financial scandals that have recently been revealed and investigated by justice - it was known to all those who had little contact with the subject in court. In particular, the arbitrary nature of these agencies, which, by the complicity of the state, was distributed throughout society, could be easily reflected if someone were to watch a case of copyright in a courtroom. There it would notice that, within a very little time and with an allegedly "automart" a representative of such an extortionist "organ creators" who came to the audience, huge sums were charged to simple businessmen - from patrols and clothing shop owners to cafes and accounting offices - because allegedly during the visit of the witness - "fabricated" to the site, there was a song of such or the notorious artist or singer - which was supposedly represented by the applicant, without the artist or his company knowing it. With this legal fraud, in which the whole system and the entire state cooperated, despite the constant protests of legal associations, representing the shops, the average free trader was forced or indulging in the blackmailing of the pimps of the agencies, which were seen as "monthly" by each shop, or being taken to the courts, which charged huge sums. The fraud consisted of the fact that, not only did they not end up in the pockets of the authors, artists or their relatives, in the definitions of the law, but instead in the pockets of the deceivers and the circuit which they had set up with the responsibility and complicity of the State. Part of all of these tens of millions collected every month ended up in the “ESDP”, essentially in a family, which is currently under judicial judgement on diversions in the field of copyright. It is therefore clear that it was absolutely necessary to change the legal framework and to modernise the arbitrary regime, which prevailed in the field, even if it had to be done through a 2014 European directive, which the Government is adopting without any modification. However, in the opinion of the Golden Dawn which has been formulated and in similar cases, the copying of provisions from the instructions through their translation without the mediation of their adaptation to Greek data may be the easiest method of legislating for your Government, but it is not the safest, since experience has shown that few times something that has been legislated abroad can be applied and rendered internally. Therefore, in general terms, although this directive, which you have incorporated as a whole into the legislation, covers the gaps and omissions of Law 2121/1993, we should, as we will say at the right place, be appropriately shaped so that it can be implemented. Otherwise, it will remain a blank letter and will be swallowed into practice. You may even have to make a new incorporation into a new European directive. And I now come to the articles. Articles 1 to 55 shall apply to collective management organizations in Greece and abroad, both within and outside the European Union, where they are active within the Greek territory, in the management and protection of the rights of their relatives - related rights - and to legal persons dealing with collective management, namely, the management of the intellectual property rights of more natural persons. The most important thing is that there is a redefinition of the procedure for the authorisation of these various rights management bodies, in a specific procedure that is strictly defined by the Directive (Articles 4 to 7). The rules for the functioning of these agencies, which were called for in the chaotic situation described above, appear to be ensured in part by various provisions, such as the supervisory board established, but which alone cannot function if there is no central control and sovereign will on the part of the State for their implementation (Articles 8 to 10). The management of the revenue and expenditure of those bodies, which is also the case, given the opacity which prevailed and the logic of the 'pooper' which had been dominated by the debt managers vis-à-vis private operators, appears to be more specific, setting a ceiling of costs, deadlines for the distribution of the amounts concerned to the beneficiaries (Articles 17 to 21). An important innovation is the one introduced by Article 12(1), according to which the rightholders have the right to entrust an organisation with the right to manage the property rather than the obligation. In other words, the creator may choose to manage the property himself, arising from its creation, without entrusting it to a collective entity. The second pillar that had been exploited by the various so-called organisations was users, i.e. operators who were forced without any measure to provide various amounts that were not identified by anyone, rather than by the appetite of the management companies. Moreover, the new system introduced seems to formally protect the authors, who, by signing representation contracts, give the management bodies the right to manage their rights, at the cost of retaining such funds, the amount of which is unthinkable as to how they are determined (Articles 20 and 21). Similarly, Articles 22, 23 and 24 seem to tend to regulate matters relating to the remuneration of the beneficiaries, but we are observing a number of vague points which may be specified in greater ministerial decisions. The directive, which entered the essence of the problem of the representativeness of each body, seems to have been intended to highlight the need for transparent procedures. We are in favour of this intention, but knowing that, if there is no proper staffing, then unfortunately the so-called "magasies" will be created in the exploitation of artists and creators. The same bodies are also defined in Article 33 that they may grant authorisations for more territories within the European Union - multi-territorial licences - for online services, so-called online rights, arising from the reproduction of online works, ensuring the accuracy of the information - Article 35 - to submit specific reports on the use of online services, agreements between organisations - Article 38 - and the pricing of products - Article 37 - which cannot be arbitrary. It is also crucial that Article 46 expresses the self-evident possibility for counterparties to claim the protection of their rights by judicial means. They need to improve the provisions of the resolution committee - we are talking about Article 52 - which, although it is similar to the once known insolvency practitioner, cannot in any way operate effectively under the proposed framework and must be replaced or subject to the procedure laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure for the administration of a union which does not have a CP. The problem is Article 53, not only because of its incomplete wording, but also because of its substance, since it makes it conditional on the functioning of the so-called online offences by a committee which will be created following the adoption of a CSR, which will never work properly, taking into account the relevant experiences of the past and the increased requirements of the draft law on it. In conclusion, for the first part of the draft law, which concerns the amendment of Law 2121/1993, we have specific objections to articles, as we have explained in detail in the committee. Those of the next provisions of the second part of the bill are not purely or with suspicions of a rhetoric and targeted at the satisfaction of the wider party clientele of the government, of course we are voting against them or we will vote'residents' in so far as no expenditure is caused against the State budget, such as Articles 56 to 60. There are articles in the right direction, such as Article 65, which set up a committee to monitor the situation of so-called movable monuments - motor vehicles or boats - and deal with relevant issues. It is necessary that the Committee's inspiring potential consists exclusively of officials from the relevant Ministry, so that the State budget is not charged. Experienced experts, as stated in the provision, can also be found within the state mechanism. Article 66 deals with matters relating to the security and guarantee of museum exhibits, which are either on the domestic or abroad. There is provision for a guarantee from the Greek State in cases of loss or damage of the exhibits. Everything aimed at protecting and protecting our cultural heritage is moving in the positive direction. It is necessary, of course, to ensure complete transparency in the management of the funds concerned. Articles 67, 68, 73 provide for cases of renewal or extension of fixedterm contracts for officials of the Ministry of Culture, in the context of the government's well-known regular customer service. On the contrary, we are in favour of the special additional fee for diving officials of the IRS who carry out work in adverse conditions. I'm talking about Article 69. Articles 72 and 76, concerning the posts in the Athens Concert Hall and the contracts for the Athens Concert Hall, are articles which we will not support for obvious reasons, contrary to provisions aimed at managing existing issues under the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will only need one or two minutes, Mr President. From the position of the Minister and the majority rapporteurs in the committee on the issues of the draft law in question, it would be useful to add to what we said yesterday and the following. SYRIZA's rapporteur and the Minister referred to the huge administrative expenditure limits for management companies that have been acting uncontrolled for decades and have been in some cases up to 50%, and after the law's vote, they will be at a limit of 20%. The supposed insurance policy set by the bill is the supervisory board. The question that remains unanswered and you must answer is as follows: Who controls the representativeness of the supervisory board in relation to those who are the creators of the management organisation? What state control mechanism is it that will judge and decide whether the increase in the management costs of the organisation to be proposed by the general meeting is real or factual? What you are doing here is shifting the problem from the management level to the level of this representation through its institutions, but without having introduced an article that controls and evaluates it. What we are, therefore, proposing is, in short, that a limit should be set for the members - who are represented in the general assembly and who can introduce major changes in the management revenue - for example, over 60% of the members - and not arbitrarily, as you are referring to. The hypocrisy of the New Democracy even in this bill is unprecedented. Yesterday we heard the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Kefaloyannis, talking about rules of transparency and legality, to which the New Democracy is loyal, when on its governments and on the government of Samaras, who had been practicing for years, Minister for Culture, was actually applying the system of immunity, which is now allegedly being condemned. It is characteristic that the Civic Opposition has not even brought a proposal to the issues of the draft under consideration for the simple reason that it has always been the enthusiast of opacity and transaction in space and intellectual rights. It did not even have the emotiveness to admit its complete failure even to refer to justice the executives of the "GSPI" who were sewing the space of the creators and it was the one who tolerated the pimps who entered the shop many times in order to impose police assistance "prudence" on the "criminals" who had a transistor in their shop. The issue of the so-called Commissioner who has been set up by an amendment from your Government is a problem, as it has been shown. Both the tasks assigned and its interventions are not governed by clear rules and problems already arise. The unanswered question was raised: “Who finally decides on the legitimate fees of authors?” You have no answer to that and you are vaguely referring to the Court of Appeal, which, through a controversial procedure in substance, will decide on all the critical issues that you are avoiding. In the respective article we described the Commissioner as a legal court on the basis of which they are kept in the civil procedure. The difference is that there are specific powers there, and here there is a general vagueness which is already counted as a negative development in copyright. The debate was resumed by a number of rapporteurs on Article 45 of the bill. We must point out the important imperfection that the consultation it introduces with the shopkeepers in general is not, as the Minister has said, compulsory, but only optional, so as not to delay the process. That's wrong. In our assessment, the consultation not only must be mandatory, but it must be explicitly and strictly defined in terms of its content and the bodies involved and must come to an end, after a specific deadline, to have a practice to be drafted and signed by the participants. Only in this way will the content of the obligation of shops to deal with the rights management companies and the level of the shops, which are subject to the obligation, etc., be ensured.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u89	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u90	I shall conclude, Mr President. We talked about copyright and piracy and our minds go to all those selling and continuing to sell uncontrolled cd, dvd, books, etc., anywhere without permission. Of course, you know who I mean. Thousands of users were brought to the courts and many were destroyed financially - mainly small businesses - because of the EPP and with the responsibility of the governments. There are too many publications showing names and amounts, large amounts. In these publications I read the name Dionysos Tsaknis, member of the Board of Directors of the "GSPI", composer, characterist, current president of the ERT and well-known censor of the Golden Dawn. We pointed out the scandal with a specific question tabled by Mr. Cassidy and Mr. Eliopoulos, but the Ministry declared lack of competence. Since you have shown that, like previous speakers, you cannot guarantee either transparency or pluralism or legality and clearance in no place and on the basis of the positions of operators in the committee, we cannot vote on this bill. We expect justice to do its duty to clear the space. Some called the "terrorist" bill and "block". I don't share that. Such laws were the law on citizenship and anti-racist law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u91	We proceed with the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Ioannis Delis, for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, your convenient habit was made there in SYRIZA, the emergency procedures in the House. But there is no excuse for today's bill. You wanted to avoid anything else. The current copyright bill, which also incorporates the relevant Community directive, is a key lever for government policy in the field of art and culture. Government policy, which, as in other areas, always flagged the development of capitalist profits, breaks labour and popular rights, so in the field of art is preparing to sacrifice the intellectual and related rights of creators, artists on the altar of capital gains that are increasingly active in culture, while at the same time harming the people's right to it. But it couldn't be. The unpopularity of government policy is united in both internal and foreign policy. That is why you cannot afford to take the 'bravo' from the institutions, NATO, the United States and, of course, the sometimes 'flavoured' markets! The issue of copyright and related rights, of course, is a very complex issue. The necessity of the artist, creator, performer, performer to defend his work from physical, moral or any other deterioration, the need within the capitalist market to be able to claim the share from the resale, exploitation, public execution of his creation and his interpretation, obliges artists to claim respect for the rest of those rights. With monopolies being dominant - as now - in all spheres of production and distribution, the above requirements are certainly becoming more urgent. The artistic work, however, is not just a commodity value that takes the way of the market. This feature of commodity value acquires it from the nature of the capitalist system that converts all goods - even the most valuable for human life - into mere goods. On the other hand, the artist is obliged to adapt to this reality - he cannot ignore it - if he wants to ensure his survival, physics, but also artistic. The reality, however, is also evolving with the growing development of technology, the eruption of the Internet, but also the outbreak of the crisis and the exacerbation of competition, the European Union and the urban governments have been focusing more systematically on culture in recent years, as they have seen not only economic gains but, at the same time, ideological and propaganda profits. Two birds with one stone! In these circumstances intellectual and related rights come to the fore, since they are directly related to the fundamental issue of ownership in intellectual and artistic production. But there are two concepts here too and they conflict. And that's not just about the field of ideas. In other words, it is not a simple theoretical debate, because adopting one or the other has many practical consequences, real consequences for social life. On the one hand, the concept of the JRC which considers that the copyright of an artist, an artist, is founded, expelled and dependent on his own artistic creation and on the other, the concept of all of you, without exception, that copyright derives exclusively from the property of the artistic work. That is why you are using the term 'intellectual property' at all. Of course the difference between these two concepts is abyss. The JRC's perception refers to the author's right to his work, to the protection of him from all sorts of attempts to alter the substance and his quality. In short, this is an inalienable right that cannot be the subject of any trade transaction. Your perception turns the right to property. It is therefore sold which is sooner or later - so it goes into the hands of capital, which is of course treated according to its current economic, political and ideological purposes. That is precisely what the European Union directive and the draft law incorporating it are seeking. That is why the criticism of the other urban parties in the government bill, which fully agrees with the substance and its aim, is mainly consumed on secondary issues of a procedural nature. And the fight becomes and focuses only on the "sinner" "Sinner", which discredits "innocent" entrepreneurship. And yet, this entrepreneurship you want to glove in the field of art, that's exactly the problem. And the example of the "GDP" shows in the most clearest way where it can lead. And finally leave the hypocritical krone for the "GDP". Now bring legislation and once the 'GDP' has been refined to the hands of the authors themselves, maintaining its continuity, without loss of the rights due to the authors, without any collapse of its input mechanism and without any risk to workers. But you have in mind. And here it is good not to rest the creators and workers. So what does the directive and the bill do? Quite simply, they are intervening in the creation of a competitive market for intellectual property that will lead to greater concentration and concentration of capital, allowing for many speculative businesses in the European Union to be set up in their economic activity to manage copyright and related rights. Result? The enclave of commercialisation in the field of culture. How will this be done, however, when it is known that for twenty years, apart from the speculative 'GDP', there have been in our country and organizations for collective copyright management throughout the range of art, operating on a cooperative basis, with self-management and without any speculative logic? I am talking about PIS, about those who were founded by the artists themselves in their efforts to defend their work from the monopolistic immunity shown by teeth. I am not speaking, of course, of the independent copyright management entities, of this new fruit provided for in the bill, because these are already and are acting as purely speculative, that is, capitalist, business, managing the intellectual and related rights of the artists - their clients, who, of course, have their interests and fates on speculators. So these ADRs, collective management organisations, which still insist on acting as non-profit collective management bodies, your directive and draft law drives them or change their character and become capitalist companies or close, to become competitive. That is why you are making them invest without limits both in rights revenues and in 50% of undistributed revenues even on the Stock Exchange, when it is still fresh in memory the pillaging of the reserves of the insurance funds in this regard. This is why you are setting the ground for the creation of large speculative PSFs, which may have as members even a production company, i.e. AOEI, but also powerful economic artists that are linked to these producers. That is why you are stepping up the capitalist competition with the imported AEOIs and AOIs that already operate in other countries of the European Union and are now able to operate freely in our country, enabling an artist to join any AOI or AOI, even if this organization is not working in our country. That is why with the bill you put such and so great preconditions on the SADs that they will want to manage copyright online, which is now dominated, so that they are forced to grant it, whether wanting or not, more powerful SADs that have this possibility. Such organisations, such as the monopolistic groups, already operate on them, by increasingly controlling what we will see and what we will hear on the Internet. As if not all of this were enough, the bill and the directive are unequivocally in favour of the LAGs. Slowly, the more state control and control are relaxed the sanctions for independent management entities, that is, capitalist enterprises, but suffocating, irresponsible control over collective management organisations. For example, no obligation is provided for the ATOs, and even to make public transparency reports on how they manage the amounts retained, which are not very small. On the other hand, fines are extinguished for ASCBs, up to EUR 200,000 and sanctions, which go up to the definitive withdrawal of their own operation. Here, apart from the artists who will fall victim to capitalist competition, there are several employees in the "GDP" and other organizations. What will be the fate of their wages, their rights, their own jobs, when you set a maximum of operating expenses in the IASs of 20% of gross revenue, and within 20% of that, do you, in addition to their wages and the great fines you are making? That is why we say that fines should not be taken into account in operating expenses, and we ask what these workers will become in the event of the bankruptcy of an ADR, a scenario that is very likely in such a competitive landscape, when on the basis of the new bankruptcy code you voted on these suddenly on the road, they will not have the slightest opportunity to claim any hired and redundancies. With regard to the ministerial right now to appoint a commissioner, intervening rawly in the functioning of any IAC, and only with the possibility - look at it - that this IAC cannot respond to its responsibilities, this legislation actually reveals the following: Truth, what would the Commissioner need from collective management bodies if you were to see them as mere collective management and non-profit organisations? How can such ASCBs go bankrupt if they simply collect revenues on behalf of their members? It would be enough here perhaps a mere ban on the speculation of UCLAF. But you don't see them that way, but as capitalist companies, that is to say, that's why you also anticipate the appointment of a commissioner. At the same time, the provision does not go unnoticed at the same time, according to which the beneficiaries of the revenue from computers, tablets and smartphones include publishers of artistic works. Really, what does they have to do with artistic creation? As for libraries, public and university, if we really want them to function as such, it is not possible to accept that they are exploited by those concerned to impose any costs. The classicity of your policy is reflected in the other provisions of the bill. There's a total globe of literal provisions. Instead of supporting the State School of Orchestra Art and its operation exclusively from the state budget, you merchandise her studies, promote her to entrepreneurship - this entrepreneurship you think of everywhere and everything - and drag her to the legs of donors. As far as the Thessaloniki Concert Hall is concerned, and despite what you have just heard yesterday in the House by a member of SYRIZA, that he has always opened his gates to the people, the truth is that not only is it unrealistic and alienated about the wide popular layers of the city - and how not to be, when a ticket costs 50 euros or the rental cost of the Megaron is literally extraordinarily true for the people of the city - but is seeking to open up for the good of this Thessaloniki Concert Hall for the NGOs - civil society you say so, but we understand - by strengthening its business even further. In conclusion, neither the directive nor the bill protects the copyright of authors - artists. On the contrary, they are a great step forward in capitalist expropriation and they are a danger to every spiritual cultural asset, as - and let us not underestimate this - it is a danger of death for our own cultural heritage and access to it for our people. It was typical of the cry of agony in the committee of Greek musicians. For all of us, of course, we are opposed as JRC with the bill. We, the JRC, include the issue of copyright and related rights in the fight for the abolition of capitalist production relations, the economic and intellectual exploitation of the people's strata. Labour power aims to abolish the essence of this deep class cultural policy, canceling its economic base, i.e. capitalist ownership in the means of production and dissemination of art. Only in this way and no one else is guaranteed the fundamental requirement for the artist to be able to make genuinely free, without the mediation of all kinds of "producers" and promotions with or without introductory terms. Free, under just one condition: His work to entertain, elevate the mental, emotional, aesthetic world of people, instead of gladly to sleep and manipulate them. In the context of this labour power, therefore, all authors - artists will be free from the bio-indeeds, as they will be guaranteed, as will all, stable work and wages and management mechanisms of this kind will be misused, will not be necessary, since the notion of inalienable intellectual right will be purified by speculative purposes and will be truly justified, gaining its true moral and only moral meaning. In today's circumstances, however, where artists are trying to survive in terms that are disastrous to artistic creation, we believe that artists, integrated in the anti-monopoly, anti-capitalist struggle, can gain a first shield of their rights, first rejecting their disastrous directive and denying their coexistence with the exploiters of their creation. Their criterion is not only to be the situation in the “ESDP”, because the European directive widens the way for the establishment of many “ESDP” and in all places, but also with the people to say “no” to speculators, to oppose decisively the establishment of the independent management entities and to claim a non-profit PDO for each sector of artistic rights and the compulsory conversion of the “ESDP”, the only profit-making organisation in Greece, to today, to PDO.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u93	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u94	I shall conclude, Mr President. I'm gonna need a second more. To be excluded as non-beneficiaries of the intellectual right of artists, creators, performers, executioners all their businessmen, who are not themselves shareholders of artistic creation and have absolutely nothing to do with it. The Intellectual Property Organisation should be transformed into a legal person governed by public law. A body governed by private law cannot exercise control and have the right to impose penalties. Its main objective should be to supervise and support ASAs in their fight for the protection and management of the intellectual and related rights of artists. Provide for criteria as objectively as possible so that the remuneration of artists from the public execution or use of their works is satisfactory, on the other hand, to facilitate cooperation with users on the basis of the proportionate use of the criteria. To facilitate small-scale users, self-employed, who are hard to survive. Another cafeteria in the village and another large TV channel or a large club of hundreds of bushes. At last, measures must be taken at some point, so that all the big business users, such as hotel groups, entertainment centres, are forced to pay the fixed rates of pay for the artists who today refuse to pay them. Ladies and gentlemen, life itself, the history of art itself, shows that art is fertilized and the artist is completed when he meets and expresses his people, his needs and his struggles. In today’s class struggles, then, artists have a duty to contribute to their art weapon as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u95	Thank you Mr. Delis, special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece. We proceed with the special speaker of the Independent Greeks Mr. George Lazaridis for 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about a draft law, a legislative initiative by the Ministry of Culture responsible for collective management of intellectual property rights and related rights. The open dialogue that took place yesterday was very constructive, as various comments and proposals were put forward from different perspectives, which were ultimately incorporated into the bill and all of them between artists and professionals, relatives and space. The European Union's collective management directive was an opportunity for our country or rather the opportunity to enter a class and to have a regulatory framework, which would impose transparency, accountability and participation of creators in collective management organisations, which is now guaranteed. The bill puts, after decades of age, in the landscape of copyright, ensures transparency, accountability and control of collective management organisations, harmonises the rules of transparency and control to anonymous management organisations and strengthens control by the authors themselves, strengthening the responsibilities of the collective bodies and the Supervisory Board, consistent requests for the non-implementation of which had led the artistic site to a dead end. The specific nature of the area, the coexistence of various professionals and amateur artists in a category clearly defines the great difficulty on which all the parties, which, in the end, through a long process and a substantial exchange of views, must work, have led us to these arrangements, which bring us closer to the European framework. This draft law sets out a number of important operating rules and regulates supervisory issues, as it defines which collective management organisations its provisions apply. Relations between collective management organisations and beneficiaries are redefined. For collective management organisations and independent entities, the arrangements for the management of intellectual property income and the imposition of reservations on them shall be specified, the deadlines for the allocation of the amounts due to beneficiaries or other collective management organisations and the procedures for the management of amounts due to beneficiaries not identified. In addition, procedural presumptions are introduced in favour of collective management organisations to facilitate their objectives, since the internal structures of collective management organisations are essential for the recognition and legitimacy of their activities and for their effective functioning. Provisions are also made to ensure that collective management organisations operate in accordance with the principles of transparency and participatoryness, while in order for collective management organisations to be able to manage effectively the rights assigned to them, an arrangement is introduced, under which they should receive and verify the necessary data from beneficiaries. With regard to online music, where the rule continues to be the collective management of copyright by territory, the conditions favouring the most effective licensing practices have been created in this chapter in an ever-increasing and frontier-free context. In conclusion, the draft law under consideration attempts to introduce a class into the landscape what is called "spiritual and related rights" and which requires immediate update, not only because of the time that has elapsed since the previous regulation, but also because of the rapid technological developments that have partly changed the style and context of the work of many artists and professionals of all kinds. The Independent Greeks support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u97	Thank you Mr George Lazaridis, MP and special speaker of the Independent Greeks. Mr Anastassios Megalamoustakas, a special speaker from the Association of Centres, has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u98	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I really did not want to say this today. However, the needs stress this, as when we follow fast track legitimisation processes, our reactions should also be proportionate, because otherwise we are not doing our work properly as legislators. We cannot constantly change articles, provisions, remove, add and provide adequate information to Members, because we cannot do our work properly. I have discussed with the other rapporteurs, and I have also discussed with the colleagues of the Minister. There should be a painting along with the body of the bill given to us today, which we can see in detail what is going on and what exactly the changes are. We may have been given some legislative improvements within the committees. However, it is very difficult for someone to take the body today, to consider exactly how the changes took place. So you need to set this up. We have seen in the committees and, in particular, in the committee hosted by the institutions, there is no real dialogue, because they have had too little time. Not all operators were invited, as seventy were proposed. A lot of people came back, but they weren't the ones they should be. We saw that a majority, if not all the institutions, were negative to this bill and I do not understand why you withdrew a bill by Mr Baltas and Mr Xydakis, which was generally accepted by the world of creation and culture. This is all uncontinuation, not the state, but the government shows. You have to ask yourself why all this is happening. Why should all of us come to Stepma every time and criticize? There is not a bill, not only from your Ministry, but also from the other ministries, in which there is a broader agreement. The fact that there was no consultation is seen from the letter sent to the Prime Minister. I'll testify to her for the Minutes. So far, as we speak, there has been no change. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastassios Megalamoustakas, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I know, having learned that there will be a change in Article 55. I hope it happens. If there was substantial dialogue before the bill was submitted, we would not be coming to this position at this time. We have seen various other changes, such as in Article 72 in the committees, today Article 71 after the changes, where we were shouting and saying that remuneration should not be laid down by the Governing Council, and you have indeed changed it and set it by a joint ministerial decision. I don't know why this is happening. I hope they don't go up. Perhaps they should be maintained in their previous service, because we all know that the Athens Concert Hall is a bankrupt organization. We have to do everything we can to keep it. Why are we staying in the country? Culture is something that we must safeguard and we are in agreement with all this. However, all this must be done in the right way. We have seen in recent years - and it is of course not your fault - artists and great creators in their deep old ages to starve, to have the necessary living and the last few months to see why. For there was a business, a company that was was was wasting the money of the creators, the musicians, the stigmas, all those who gave us very beautiful moments with their works, so that they could be well and some of their own creators and lyricists and "big artists". I put it in introductory terms, because artists should be doing other work than culture. They will have to look after both the Members and the rest of their own 'cohesion'. The world is indignant. This bill should have brought it far before, because I think it is perhaps the most important thing that the Ministry of Culture has brought since you took over from the government. You had time and in 2015, as the directive was tabled in 2014. You had time and in 2015 and 2016 and the beginning of 2017, because we have spent more than half the year of 2017. We must have direct reactions to the real and major problems of this country. One of these is what you want to solve through this draft law. We will be here to control what you change and what you do not and how you apply it and why the changes must be made. Unfortunately, following these tactics, we cannot regain the respect of the world, the Greek people, who have been fighting within the memoranda seven years. The future, unfortunately, is not a prosperous one. We do not even make the least of it, to offer at least the Greek people a substantial dialogue and substantial solutions. We do not want a fundamental regulation at the end of this bill, as the rapporteur said yesterday, we want definitive solutions and they are not given the foot. I don't understand why this is happening. There's really a lot of positive provisions in the bill. There are even some amendments that you have brought some positive elements. However, it should be done more thoroughly. In other words, no one can deny security to the persecuted staff, no one can disagree with the 'Moralis' prize, no one will disagree with regulating the issues of the NGO by stepping up or at least trying to improve the situation in NOMA. However, it must be done in a proper way, which you probably haven't found. In conclusion, I would like us all to ask ourselves this: if, with the good vote, this bill, which is to be done by the compact group of the coup d'état, will the problems of the authors have finally been solved? I'm very afraid that's not what we can guarantee them. I hope for the best, and we'll reassign ourselves as soon as we see the legislative improvements that you bring today, which I think we're all waiting for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr Anastasios Megalomustakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, may I make an intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u101	An intervention in general?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u102	On a subject that has arisen, and I think you and the Minister must deal with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u103	We're listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u104	It is clear here that the report drawn up for the debate on the relevant parliamentary committee in this bill has removed Article 61 of the draft law and Article 62 of the draft law has been renumbered until the end. And then, incorporating all three amendments accepted, the articles should be eighty, but they are seventy-nine. This provision is important, and indeed some of the rapporteurs had praised and praised this initiative to abolish the obligation to file a copy of films not at the National Centre for Audiovisual and Film, established by Mr. Papapis with Law No.4339, but as provided for by the Movie Act 3405/1910, at the National Film Gallery. Indeed, there is a need to protect this body called the National Film Office, and for a long time now everyone who has been involved with culture thinks that the natural body, the so-called depot legal, as the filmmakers here, must be the National Film Office. Unfortunately, this provision has disappeared.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u105	Good. Let's not cut the curd.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u106	To place the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u107	Sure. He'll be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u108	We might also be wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u109	Let us give the floor to the last of the special speakers, Mr Gregory Psariano from Potami, and then the Minister will have the floor to put it and answer the question you have just raised. Please, Mr Psariano, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. You know, for decades now, the left has had developed proposals for health, education, justice, relations between the State and church, culture and human rights, and the fight against corruption and interlocutory, for smuggling of tobacco, oil, gas, etc. He had worked out proposals and rightly had a complaint to the previous rulers of all shades and all political designs. So, it also had an integrated plan and proposals for copyright and for their safeguarding, when in the country for decades, there was an uncontrolled pillowing of intellectual rights, a robbery of one, say families, which we would say in other Mediterranean countries, such as in southern Italy, which since 1938 has been hailing copyright, chasing taverns and cafeterias in all the villages where various collectors - pimps and who have taken uncontrolled money from small cafes in all the villages and in all the islands and everywhere in Greece, in all the shops, in all the shops of sanitary interest with musicians who were playing or not playing or with radios that sounded and a cafe with three customers suddenly looking at a type, say, almost mafios, who was going there and said "50,000 euros" or "50,000 euros in a month". This is what all the stores in Greece have known for decades, not only the shopkeepers, but also the customers and everyone. So this uncontrolled looting of copyright has had huge receipts, huge profits, not for copyright owners, not for authors, composers, stylists or even authors, visualists in all forms of art. But let's focus on music, since we're talking about the famous "GSPI", the scandal of which exploded a few months ago and we all did what we were astonished. We were all sick of what we heard, as if we didn't know. The left, therefore, came in the form of a gift from the Great, with the help of the people in power with the helmet of a sprayed right, with which he cooperates perfectly and perfectly and applauds one another, the left and the left, causing a permanent question in the world how they can work together. They can work together. When we eat, we don't talk, that is, we don't cooperate and we do jobs, business asUS. So now we come to manage the intellectual rights and a gangrene that has for years been “causing” the spiritual world of the country. With the wrath and indignation of the left you go to manage and rationalize the landscape and cleanse the vagina of Agygia. What are you doing? You open the door to even more "GDP", you give the "GDP" the right to transfer its seat to Cyprus without controlling it. You have a commissioner, or even some accountants, some vows, who will do a check. Of course, I hope that this familial will return the money collected from the cosmopolitan and share it with spiritual creators at some point, even by court decisions, even with a merciless hunter. Are we going to do that? I don't think so. I guess we're going to cover it up and open the door to other such corporations, manage profitably and plunder intellectual rights. We are therefore in the process of incorporating a European directive. The incorporation, this very common procedure, has become a constant tactic in this government, in addition to the sound amendments it brings to all bills. Now we have articles in the second place from adult autobottoms, we have locations and distractions and assignments at the Concert Hall of Music. We have arrangements for fair workers' requests at the Athens Festival. We have many things, some of which are positive and we would vote for them. Some, two, three, four, five at most will vote on them. But this whole package with the urgency procedure, with a dialogue that never happened! Yesterday, the bill was to be passed - we had proposed a total of about seventy representatives of operators - more than thirty. It is a very large number, one of the largest number of representatives of institutions that have come. Of the thirty, let's say, the twenty-eight "bombed" the bill. They were angry, outraged, denounced the bill and only one, two representatives of bodies, who were also candidates for SYRIZA vote once, had relations with the party structures of SYRIZA - by the ANELs, from party structures did not appear in copyright, I do not know why, it will not be their specialty, it seems - they asked for the bill to be passed. One, two, thirty! The rest of you took it down. Madam Minister, we have homogeneity of objections, complaints, complaints. Twenty-eight out of thirty, thirty-one out of thirty-five were mined, others said that they were not called, others could not speak in four minutes in a bill, which should have had a year and a half ahead of consultation and had it, because we had a bill to integrate the European directive, but also to settle copyright. In December 2015, he was posted to the Parliament, in public consultation, the bill on collective intellectual property rights management and dated April 2016. It was deposited in December 2015. The consultation took place, it was long, in normal time, without urgency, without overly urgent procedures. In May 2016 he was submitted to the parliament, passed by a legislature and went to the vote. Almost all operators had agreed, all those who were furious and disagreed yesterday. Then almost everyone had agreed. Suddenly in July 2016 the bill, probably night, was withdrawn, while it was fully supported by the actors. Why did he retire? I have asked, I expect answers from Mr Xydakis and from Mr Baltas because this bill has been withdrawn, who has asked for his withdrawal. We have interacting factions, many of which disagreed and said, "Take this back, get some issues settled?" Did the issue of "GDP" have to be settled, covered and seen? Theoretically we denounce it, but in fact we let it have taken the francs out, to have taken the seat in Cyprus, to have distributed nothing to the spiritual creators, while some of course top and last names - five, six, seven - took enough money from the "GSPI" and didn't even speak, because, you know, the busted doesn't talk. Hundreds of thousands of children, who were playing musicians, writing, hundreds of children actors, writers, scriptors, directors, singers, singers were getting crumbs from the "GSP" and some were getting nothing! This, instead of taking care of it, "do we hollow"? Are we going to report it? Are we going to loot?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u111	You were a coup d'état.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u112	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u113	I can't hear people from underneath saying things, and they're even complaining that...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u114	Sure. You're right. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u115	I do not want to continue on staff now so that we do not say 'hundreds'. I don't want to talk about it. In early September 2016, while the bill was withdrawn in July 2016, in which almost all agreed, a new bill appeared and in February 2017 the bomb of the “GDP” exploded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u116	Is she out on her own?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u117	Not on her own. Don't fly. You can then say what you want, that you have examined and found and revealed, and you can make it up to you. Tell us here. Tell us why you removed the previous bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u118	Can you tell us what you did for them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u119	Don't interrupt underneath. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u120	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u121	I'm not addressing you, Mr. Fisherman.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u123	Below, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u124	Can we know why the previous bill was withdrawn? Will anyone answer us directly?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u125	Are you going to tell us why, as a coexistence, you didn't do anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u126	Mrs. Vaguea, it's not right what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u127	For all this looting, the millions that have disappeared, the rewards of familia and her associates, and for all these things, there are still stories that need to be revealed and restored. On Friday, then, the bill we are debating today is being tabled without any consultation. One of the thirty representatives of bodies who came to the committee yesterday said that there was consultation. "We went," he said, "in the Minister's office and we discussed". Were representatives, seventy representatives, at your office, Minister, and you discussed in detail all the issues of the bill? Why did we hide it yesterday from the representatives of operators and no one told us where you met, where this consultation took place, if it took place in 'grains' - I asked it yesterday in committee - if there were agreements or disagreements? Where did this consultation take place on a bill tabled the other day, for which we do not yet know what changes to articles have been made? To date we do not know whether 34 will be 34 if it has been deleted if 72 has become 73. We don't know what changes have been made. The whole of this monstrosity is coming to vote consensually, in fact, all the "German germans" and the "dollars" and the "prosecutors" previous ones who had two memorials and you, the "split" left-wing government that you have five, six memorials in the program and easy to sign them. You know, you blamed others for signing what they were given. You sign and everything they don't give you. Oh, that's easy. All we have to do is do business! All we have to do is place employees from the Ministry of Finance at the Congregation of Music, while they were only from the Ministry of Culture. You put it in an amendment. You didn't give us the pictures and names of the ones you want to go from the Treasury to the Concert Hall. We constantly have Parliamentary amendments calling for arrangements and arrangements, as we say, the taxes of the CAP. It was a conspiracy amendment. He came over here in a night, secretly how. We learned from the newspapers after days that a businessman was exempted from a thirty-five million fines to get a "light" and "jabe". So are these amendments that come here in brochron, will you expect us to vote on them? Previous parties of the "dogs", "German germangolites" "partners", denounced and conquered, left comrades, and you showed them as traitors and said "creams" and "Guda", and now you have taken "Guda" and "gud" and "gud" and you make garlic and whatever you want, from apricots to apricots, whatever you like!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u128	You're a god!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u129	You're a hundred and fifty-three, and you're gonna be a hundred and fifty-three, hell to be done. She's not going to move a card. Because business asUSal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u130	Take a look out!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u131	Ms. Baja, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u132	The previous "German gypsies" who plundered the country lost a few tens, twenty and thirty MPs. Each party lost twenty and thirty Members, ladies and gentlemen, in every Memorandum vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u133	You're uncontrollable now! You don't know what's going on with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u134	You make it sore, make the duck, and you will be a hundred and fifty three until you fall, and the hundred and fifty three.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u135	And that's what you're worried about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u136	And when you fall, we'll see what we'll do.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u137	Please complete, Mr. Fisherian. Ms. Baja, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u138	Mrs. Bagena, would you like to bring a tape recorder here to play us antimony-memorandum ghosts?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u139	Yeah, I'll get it. Is it bad? That's what I got. Cassatophone. I don't have expensive machines.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u140	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u141	You want to get us a transistor, play us for Merkel and tell her "Go home," huh?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u142	That's what I got. I have a cassette phone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u143	Mr. Fisherman, please complete your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u144	I will conclude by saying that, as a left or as a former left, if you want, because for me it is not the route if we go left or right, it is whether we go one step forward, if this country becomes a normal European country, it is no longer 'Chaplidistan'. We do not want to become either Caracas, nor "I wish we were Venezuela", nor "I wish we were Argentina", said my old companion, Xakis. Because we have Xakis and Cousin.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u145	Does that burn you, though?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u146	Be careful, then, where we are flying and who we are talking to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u147	That's what you can't swallow, that your old companion became Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u148	Business asUSal. Be careful what you vote for and remember what you voted for. Because history writes them and keeps names, addresses, phones and dignity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u149	Please withdraw this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u150	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u151	We vote against the construction after abomination. We said that the Minister should withdraw this bill and bring back the previous one that was not ours, the Xydakis-Balta bill, with its signature, with the incorporation of European directives. We must not put 'texts' in European directives and so on. Bring in your previous bill you took off at night to vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u152	Good, Mr. Fisherman.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u153	We are voting against this. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance. It's a sviddania.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u154	We move forward with the position of Minister of Culture and Sport, Mr. Lydias Konordos, for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u155	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u156	Shame on you! You were in the coup d'état.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u157	Sign the memos and then we're talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u158	A little quiet, Mrs. Baja. Please be quiet, please, the Minister will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u159	You can't swallow that you weren't at SYRIZA while it became government. That's what eats you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u160	Are you going to play tragedy today?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u161	Mrs. Baja, just quiet the Minister's talking. Please! Mr. Fisherman, you too. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u162	He can't swallow that he wasn't at SYRIZA while he became a government. He missed the train.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u163	Are you going to play tragedy or comedy?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u164	Mrs. Vaguea, you're not helping now! We've been in the process of putting the Minister in place. Madam Minister, we are listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what can you say in the challenging attempt at destruction, now that the state is coming, after years of inertia and indifference, in general, to support the interests of authors and regulate relations with users? What can one say in the total lack of substantial proposals and serious arguments? We only see an attempt to exploit issues with a sufficient amount of distortion, as well as shallow and irresponsible treatment. I am referring to something Mrs Kefaliannis said yesterday, which unfortunately is not here to hear it: You have known this elephant for years in the room, something you mentioned. You've known for years, and you've all been incapacitated and indifferent. Who, then, today or so many years did he hood or cover up? This government is the first to open up the capital that we all knew and exposed to light. We will not give in to the challenges. We will keep the level of culture high, since this is what we are serving, respect for democratic dialogue, respect for citizens, respect for creators and users who are struggling, respect for the culture I have been serving with devotion and selflessness for forty years. Culture should bridge conflicts and not be the subject of political exploitation. The bill we've been working on, we've received it from Mr. Balta. He kept many articles from the original. In view of the developments that we have known, we have put it in a new cycle of consultation, as we had to. With regard to the Commissioner who has been provisionally put on the table with an amendment that you have unfortunately voted against, I am glad that you are now, Mrs Kefalidou, applauding the results of her intervention in GDP, the increased revenues she has earned in less than two months in favour of creators, far more than the corresponding period of the previous year, the disclosure of serious management and economic data. Let us make concrete proposals. Who's going to take over the debts? The Greek taxpayer, as did the way you operated the Congregation of Music? Who's going to take over all these debts? Say concrete suggestions, not communication fireworks. What else can we talk about? In the war to which you contributed to the placement of a temporary Commissioner? In the amendment which the PPCs have been waiting for months, on the formal qualifications of the artistic directors, which should be judged only by their work and not by the degrees? In the fact that you've been hiding while you should know that for decades no actress has been admitted to a school without a high school. In trying to hide the issues of libraries and authors and publishers? Fortunately, both sides met on our own and discussed. The fact that we did not have time to consult, ladies and gentlemen, was because we were also surprised by a threatening letter to all the libraries in Greece that they would have to pay retrospectively, otherwise they would have to face legal sanctions. We had to react, because we would have had the entire academic community and the students. We move forward, in front of all speedily, despite all this malicious dance of the Henrys. Today you are invited to vote on a draft law on collective management of intellectual property rights and related rights, granting multi-territorial licences for online use of musical works and other matters within the competence of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. It is a very important day because, after twenty-four years, new rules are being introduced into copyright, when the relevant Community directive is being transposed. The bill was processed in a large way, legally, within the Ministry of Culture, in a yacht at no café. It is the result of long consultation and dialogue, from the previous Minister for Culture and from my time of taking this position. During the last six months, intensive and brutal consultations have been held at the Ministry of Culture with a majority of the representatives of the bodies involved in the bill. The observations of the bodies that were submitted and were correct and fair were incorporated into the bill submitted. An additional consultation and elaboration was carried out for articles that were in existence in order to reflect the fairest solution. What we were unable to incorporate was put here yesterday by the institutions. It has been maintained equal distance from all operators and has not been favoured by any side, despite any pressures due to different interests which have often been expressed strongly and publicly. Indicative of the processing that has been done is the fact that in yesterday's consultation with operators in the Committee on Educational Affairs, from the seventy-seven articles of the bill, only five articles were confronted. I also stress the fact that on our initiative, thirty-five representative bodies were invited to speak, many, as you admitted, in relation to what is envisaged. They spoke thirty - and secondly - instead of the ten anticipated. The debate has been completed smoothly, without any voices and voices, within the intended time. The proposals submitted, processed and incorporated the following: In Article 9 of the draft law, the following legislative improvements are made: the third subparagraph of paragraph 5, that is to say, the proposal 'Where there is a conflict of interest, the participation of those members in the general meeting of members shall be excluded'. in the last subparagraph of point (a) of paragraph 9, after the word ‘twelfth (10)’, the word ‘creators’ is replaced by the word ‘members’. In the first subparagraph of point (b) of paragraph 9, after the words ‘from 1/25 of...’ the word ‘creators’ shall be replaced by ‘members’. In the second subparagraph of paragraph 9, after the words ‘or 1/25 of...’ the word ‘creators’ shall be replaced by ‘members’. In the second subparagraph of paragraph 5, the same shall apply, i.e. after the words ‘at least 1/25 of the...’ the word ‘creators’ shall read ‘members’. In the second subparagraph of paragraph 1 of Article 10 of the draft law, the words ‘up to five’ shall be replaced, as requested, by ‘up to nine’. In Article 18 of the draft law, paragraph 4 is added as follows: For collective management organisations whose annual gross income does not exceed EUR 500,000, management costs must not exceed, on average, 25% of the collective management body’s gross income on average.’ In Article 45 of the draft law, the following legal improvements are made: In the title after the word ‘shops’, the word ‘shops’ is added to the word ‘shops’. in the second subparagraph of paragraph 3, the words ‘three first’ shall be added; In the first paragraph of Article 51 of the draft law after the word ‘management’, the words ‘either existing or constituted after the entry into force of this Act and which...’ shall be added. The following legal improvements are made in the first subparagraph of Article 52(2) of the draft law. Are the improvements enough, Mr President, to proceed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u166	Give it to us, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u167	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u168	Apparently, he's gonna give them up, but he's explaining them, if anything needs to be done. We're going on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u169	We tell them, for example, why we want to stress that yesterday's consultation with the institutions was not a pretext, but a substantial one. A number of fair observations have been incorporated from these bodies. It's a lot of them. So you'll take them so I don't take the time. The spirit of the bill ensures transparency, justice, accountability and control in a landscape that has been left uncontrolled for years and has therefore created serious diseases and malfunctions. At the time of transposition of the Community directive, serious work has been done to deal with these pathogens. Furthermore, the Directive was implemented at the same time as a provision on the specificities of Greek reality, in accordance with the Community directive itself. One key issue that had to be addressed was the particular case of the "GDP", an anonymous speculative company with a dominant position in the copyright of authors. Its operational status had to be aligned with that of the collective management organisations in terms of transparency, to the beneficiaries and users, to accountability, to the participation of the creators and beneficiaries in the collective bodies and the supervisory board with expanded responsibilities. Details have already been provided by Panos Skouliakos in his speech. I won't expand any further. In addition, control as a last resort of all agencies is ensured by the placement of a commissioner or a joint resolution officer. For the first time, all authors are also given the opportunity to have reason and finally to control the bodies that manage their intellectual rights. I would like here, if I may, to quote a brief history that shows even more glamorously the difficulty and complexity of the project. Amidst Melina Mercouri made a serious effort to exalt the landscape. Unfortunately, however, there was not enough support in this work. Efforts have been made over the years to create other organisations from the creators themselves who have unfortunately also not been successful. In February 1993 the law that we all know was passed, No.2121, following a treatment initiated in November 1991. I stress that. It is indicative of the necessary long-term processing required on this subject. A lawsuit was filed in 1993 by the group Xarchakos, Mamagakis, Minister of State, Koumentakis and others, for the great provisions of the "GDP" that have now been vindicated. They were right now, and that is no accident at all. With the assumption of the government by SYRIZA, according to the Prime Minister's commitment to transparency and justice, it was initiated by my predecessors in management control of the years 2011-2014, which is now continuing on our own occasion, with our own request for 2015-2016. I'm glad, Mrs. Kefalidou, that you welcome this check. But some have ordered him. It has not been done by previous governments. The conclusion was revealing, so it was sent to the D.A. The bill had to cover the new data and provide for possible developments rather than risky to be submitted before all the forecasts were matured. However, the draft law does not only concern the case of the EGTC. It lays down transparency rules for all organisations. It regulates and normalises relations between beneficiaries and users. For the first time, transactions will be transparent. With their compulsory admission to the card banking system, the 'black money' will now be in the past. The bill ensures many and alternative ways of consulting and negotiating between the organisations of the beneficiaries and users, stages of consultation, mediation, arbitration, prior to recourse to justice. The bill promotes the free dialogue that exists in other countries and unfortunately has not been cultivated in all previous years on your own responsibility. It also promotes a spirit of dialogue and consultation in order to avoid mass recourse to courts. It reduces the arrogance and uncontrolled management costs that were depriving authors of the collection of their rights. It is at last faced with the indiscriminate sums in favour of the beneficiaries. In addition to copyright, the bill regulates issues of responsibility of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, which were chronic problems. They were loose ends that had to be tackled urgently. Where should these be dealt with rather than with a bill from the Ministry of Culture? [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the House is occupied by Mr. SYRIDON LYKOUDES.]] Finally, since I thank everyone involved and contributed to the real and democratic dialogue, I call on you to support this bill on copyright.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u170	Mr George Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, excuse me, may I say which parliamentary amendments I accept?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u172	Of course, Minister. Mr. Amyra, please wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u173	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u174	Do you want to speak first, Mr. Amyras?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u175	I prefer to hear first, Minister, what amendments you will be taking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u176	Thank you. So the amendments tabled are 1096...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u177	Tell us what they're saying, Minister. The summary.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u178	Yeah, let me tell you. This amendment is tabled by Mrs Vageias and Mr Papadopoulos, and it concerns the establishment of a National Museum for the Agricultural Movement of Killer. Furthermore, Amendment No 1097 by Mrs Georgopoulos - Saltaris and Mr Skourikos, entitled 'Educational licenses for officials of the National Gallery'. Furthermore, Amendment 1098 tabled by Mr Philadelphia, Mr Baltas, Excellency and others entitled "Studies of Artistic Education". In addition, Amendment No 1099 tabled by Mr Delis, Mr Synthraki, Mr Giokas, on visual intervention in public buildings. Or rather not, she doesn't. Previously, I accept. Last I think it's late.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u179	They're all late, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u180	The latter is in the process of discussion.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u181	Will you tell us later?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u182	I'll tell you later. Also, the amendment for the Athens Concert Hall, which attempts to cover real service needs, along with the optimal management of the human resources of the wider public administration, by secondment of staff from the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Culture and Sport. As regards the amendment - an addition to the proper functioning and safety of archaeological sites, it is acceptable too. We have the amendment to the Greek Festival, so that it can cover the staff who employ overtime.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u183	Madam Minister, these have been accepted in the Commission and have been incorporated as articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u184	They're integrated. The latter is a recommendation from the Secretary of State for Sport, following the conclusion of the General Assembly, to replace paragraph 12 of Article 24.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u185	Mr. Amyras, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you will allow me to comment on some of the points in your position and ask you for some answers. You spoke of a long and intensive consultation of your Government, your Ministry, with the bodies ahead of discussing and voting for this draft law. So I would like you to tell me how many and what bodies you saw in your office, because all operators yesterday complained either because they were found excluded from the communication of dialogue with you or because yesterday's four-minute meeting was not enough. I'm becoming more specific, Minister. As far as the Hellenic Association of Music Publishers is concerned, music publishers will be excluded from participation in the reception bodies of the sovereign now organ of collective management that manages their rights. This is the case, ladies and gentlemen, throughout Europe alone in Lithuania, Romania and Slovenia. The Community has noted as a pathetic factor the exclusion of this group of artists, who are many and important, that is, the publishers of music, from the decision-making process of their own rights. Please, take care of it. A second organisation, which was not even invited to the bodies, although we suggested it to be called, because we believe it had things to say, is the Association of Greek film producers, TV and Multimedia. I put forward their memorandum, ladies and gentlemen, so that you may also be informed of their proposals, Minister. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the Minutes the above memorandum, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] They make suggestions, which I believe are improveable. It would help you to see some of the points they point out. The ones with the agencies. I come to a second point, Minister. You said that the urgency procedure was submitted by the need not to deal with a serious problem arising from a threatening letter to the Greek libraries. Who is the threatening letter from? I didn't get it. From the Commission?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u187	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u188	Oh, no. Who is it from? Who received this letter and what did it say that it was so threatening that it forced the government to overcome the simple permanent parliamentary procedure and bring this draft law to discuss it with urgency? Aren't you going to give us this letter in the Minutes? That's how you'll make us all wiser. Thirdly, the remarks which spontaneously came to my mind after your speech, Minister. I'll tell you about the Congregation of Music. Ladies and gentlemen, especially in SYRIZA, do not scratch wounds that you yourself have caused the body more generally from Greek society. We know that by a decision of Juliarakis, the Greek State took over the debts of EUR 113 million of the Grand Music.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u189	No, you're wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u190	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u191	It was 350 million of the previous governments.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u192	You're deeply sleepy telling me these things!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u193	Do not engage in dialogue. Mr. Darkness, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u194	So, listen up. The takeover and entry into the debt of the central government since 1 January 2017 of the outstanding capital...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u195	You're wrong! The public was a prime minister from the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u196	Mr. Darkness, he's not talking to you. Mr. Amyras, it doesn't matter. Mr Skourikos intervened, but you are addressing the plenary and not Mr Skouricos. Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u197	You're absolutely right. I'm just trying to tell Mr. Skourico the following: Keep your revolutionaryity somewhere else. For Mr. Tsipras, your Chief, said that when hospitals are closed, because we do not have to give EUR 23 million, at the same time for certain buildings that are opposite the "Egyptio" and "Aretaeion", i.e. the Music Hall, we offer EUR 100 million in guarantees. We have to decide what's important, Mr. Tsipras said, Mr. Darkness. You tell us what's going on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u198	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u199	Social cohesion and to defend the weak or - did Mr Tsipras say - defend the interests of the few and the chosen economic oligarchy of this place? A year later, his government assumes the 113m euros debt of the Grand Musician and charges them to the government debt management agency. That's your revolutionaryity, then. It runs from your boots, but you know how to give the debts where there's supposed to be and there's a complication. Either there's a complication or there isn't one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u200	Don't leave after. Have a seat and listen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u201	And if you would like my proposal for the Congregation of Music, Madam Minister, I will very much give it to you. I've told the committees too. I've told her in plenary too. If the Congregation of Music cannot stand with its own powers, it will close. To close down to make a new start, not on the backs of the loans and the money that taxpayers will get out of their pockets. So, with a foreign collision, I know how to operate you fifteen Concerts of Music! Well, that's my point of view. Let him make a new start, based on his needs and on the resources that he can draw and move forward. Not for making the rebels to me and at the same time you are giving 100 million euros to the Congregation of Music. Let's go down. Also, a small point, Minister, with all my appreciation, you said that it was no accident that the Xorarchakou appeal now came to an end.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u202	Twenty-four years later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u203	Twenty-four years later. Where's exactly the non-accident? I don't think you're saying that there's something about justice and that justice can somehow be affected? Because Mrs Thanos will listen to us and she will freak out! But what am I saying? Now Mrs Thanos is Mr. Karanika's colleague at the Maximos Mansion. I'm on it. I come to two other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u204	Don't go over it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u205	Don't be so populist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u206	Please! Let's get to the bottom of the draft law. It is foreseen that 1% of the value of mobile, tablets, televisions with an internal memory of RAM or when it is more than 4GB. I'll just tell you what that means. Also, you put 6% engraving on the value of audio-visual devices, such as television sets for example and 4% engraving on the value of photocopiers, scanners, printers and paper A4. Why, what does the government tell us? That I'm putting a rag in precaution. Are you going to buy a cell phone? Are you going to buy TV? You'll make up for 1-6%, because the official state thinks you're a potential pirate, thief. You're illegally putting it down. So, prepay beforehand your possible hypothetical illegality. Yes, but with that logic, my Minister, aren't you actually telling the world that I indirectly legalize illegal downloading, downloading files? In fact, you're saying that every device will be used illegally. Give me money from now on, because I can't collect the piracy, I can't find those who illegally download - me and the companies and organisations and the collectives of these companies. This is, therefore, a distorting, a misrepresentation of the content of copyright protection. Here, in order to be slightly wiser, I will present an article that I found from the Greek Piraeus Party. He took it out in December 2011. It has the prehistoric history - if you want - and the history that reaches today of deception about copyright. It all started, ladies and gentlemen, in 1905, when the automatic piano appeared on the market. Then those who sold partitions claimed that they would lose their jobs, as you will no longer have to take the partit, because you embedded the melody and the rhythm of the automatic piano and that is how people will stay in the ace. Well, that's where the - I'm going to say - protection - and you understand the meaning of the word 'protection' - of copyright. So I am saying, 'The lobbys of the ladder - a century of deception' by the Piraeus Party and I believe that if you read it, ladies and gentlemen, it will lead you to better results and thoughts than today's draft law. [[At this point, the Member, George Amyras, presents for the minutes this article, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now, let's say something about the draft law. Minister, shall we go see the Odyssey of the bill? On 23 December 2015, it shall be posted in a public consultation. In May 2016, he enters the Legislative Committee and marches to vote. It accepts all collective management organisations other than the EGTC. As a miracle, in July 2016, it shall be withdrawn instantly. A new draft law, cut and sewn to the measures of the ‘ESDP’, is submitted in September 2016. It gives her more rights and the ability to work more unconsciously than before. The draft law is therefore being discussed and for some reasons it is withdrawn. The Balta bill has not been able to reach this Chamber. Gregory Psarianos told you and insisted on giving us an explanation why he was withdrawn, he disappeared the one that had greater acceptance than today and had, in my view, much better arrangements. Why did you withdraw it? What happened? We are now reaching the urgent procedure. You who didn't find out, why did you withdraw it, after you were proud? Or were you not proud of the works and days of your previous ministers? So decide who you are with. Ladies and gentlemen, technology runs, gallops, gallops, gallops, gallops. A 20-year-old today is two hundred years in front of the rest of us. This twenty-six-year-old man in ten years will be very far behind today's ten-year-olds. Therefore, instead of following the chariot of technology and the way it is managed, its way of controlling it, its way of protecting it, we reach a badly-written, clipped, colluded draft law that we shall vote against, Minister. I conclude by reminding you of our questions. Please tell me who the long consultation took place, with which bodies. Tell me if you will consider the Memorandum of the Hellenic Association of Music Publishers. Please tell me, because it was no coincidence that the Xarchaku appeal was now brought to an end. Furthermore, I would like to know whether the 100 million granted by your Government to guarantees in the Concert Hall is a revolutionary policy or is a policy of the few and the chosen economic oligarchy of this place, as we have heard from Mr Tsipras' lips. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u208	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u209	Why, my colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u210	About something Mr. Amyras said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u211	What's that? Are you involved in this?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u212	It's about the Congregation of Music. Such distortions cannot be heard in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u213	Will you talk about the Mansion? Ms. Vaki, please very much. Honestly, this can't be the case.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u214	I would also like to speak on personal grounds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u215	You know very well that we are not commenting on speeches. Thank you very much. Mr. Fisherman, neither do you have the right to speak. Please have a seat. We are entering the list of speakers in a specific order. He proposed that Mr Kamatos and Mrs Antoniou should join a parliamentary representative every two to three speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u216	Mr President, I am sorry, but I ask for the floor on staff, because Mr Amyras referred to my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u217	Your name mentioned. He didn't remind you of anything. Wait a minute, let's define the concept of personnel. It does not have a personal name, but if it is called something that affects it. Did he get you to anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u218	He referred to my name and I want to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u219	Mr. Darkness, we won't fight about it. Take the floor for a minute. But please, just for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u220	Mr President, then I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u221	I want the floor on personal grounds too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u222	So, Mr President, the rest must be answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u223	Are we going to start this story now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u224	I'd like to answer and return Mr. Amyras...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u225	Mr. Darkness, we're not gonna open up that kind of conversation right now. Do not take advantage of the tolerance of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, do I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u227	Just for a minute. There's no answer, Mr. Amyras. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u228	I also want the floor for personal reasons. My name has also been mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u229	He gave you credit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u230	When did I mention you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u231	Twice.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u232	Never.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u233	You want the video?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u234	Never!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u235	What are you doing now, ladies and gentlemen? Just a little bit of a seriousness, please. Mr. Darkdog, you have the floor for a minute. It'll be strict for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u236	Whether the Palace is closed or not, the Greek State has guaranteed its debts. He has been the lead in an amendment by Mr Venizelos since 2012. He was the prime minister of the government, and that's how this government received it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u237	Thank you. We're entering the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, I am sorry, I would like the floor for twenty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u239	Mr. Amyra, but Mr. Darkness didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u240	Only 20 seconds, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u241	Here, tell us what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u242	Mr President, my dear colleague, Mr. Skourico, are you going to escape through Mr. Venizelos? I bring a decision to you by Mr. Juliarakis, causing expenditure on the State Budget of EUR 112 million to cover the'screwed' loans from the Concert Hall since the years - since when, Mr. Skouliorakos, do you know what you have undertaken? - from 2017 to 2030. But you'll tell me what 2030 is ahead...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr. Amyras. Mr. Kamaterre, come to Vima, because otherwise dialogue will never end. Mr Kamaeros will now be given the floor, then Mrs Antoniou, then Mr Theocharopoulos. Every two or three colleagues will enter a parliamentary representative. Here, Mr. Kamaterre, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, only those who have suffered all these years from this savage circuit that existed - well described as 'familiar' just before - only those who have understood how deep this circuit was, how heated. If I am not mistaken - and if anyone has any other evidence, let me be disproved - he has not lost any trial at any time with users, with shopkeepers, with dealers, or with creators. Finally, it comes today - because no one has dared to touch it - even late, passing through these procedures. I am not the most expert in judging by the details neither the rights of authors nor the rights of users. But by transferring the anguish of an entire world which has suffered all these years, I only wanted to make a point of addressing the Minister in particular. We know very well - and here by the SYRIZA rapporteur - the positives of the bill, the resolution that is going to take place, the order again to put all this chaos that was created when we arbitrarily arbitrarily set prices uncontrollably, determined where it would receive, how it would receive and ultimately proved and how it would put this money: for its own benefit. What is my point, Minister? We have to do something about the outstanding cases. Thousands of undertakings are unfair to the courts and claim that the ‘GDP’, unauthorised, amounts which are not entitled to them. So far he was able to win the courts. Are we going to let all these people drag in court and at the expense of burdened and fined? Can't we do something? I see here that some of the articles in the bill - and that is very good - have been provided for some procedures from now on. Even consultation, mediation is provided for in disagreements. Even when there are disputes about remuneration, Article 22(6) lays down what is going on. Even for tariffs, it provides for the procedures to be established. Can't we wait here for a mediation procedure even in the pending cases before they go to court? It is quite simply that people have the right to submit an application to the Commissioner, which is also the work of the Commissioner. You know, it'll serve in the collection. Because you say he has managed to increase receipts and is in favour of creators. But in order to increase the receipts - something that we do with taxation - you need to see how people can give them. So if we follow a similar process of mediation, regulation and compromises, it will be more than just allowing people to go to court and the money will not be able to collect them. On this subject I would like, Minister, to see whether an intervention can be made. I do not know whether it can be done by an amendment or by a circular or by assisting the Commissioner, who has this role, to address all those who have pending cases and to give them the right to make a compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs. Antoniou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, before I place myself on today's bill, to make a reference to the Prime Minister's speech yesterday at the - as they painted it - the Western Macedonia Development Conference. I say that they baptized it because concrete measures and policies are supposed to be announced at the development conferences. At the Western Macedonia Development Conference, however, the only specific announcement, without further details, was the reduction - it says - of the electricity price for households and businesses in western Macedonia. I wish it would. But Mr. Tsipras' glorified past in false promises doesn't fill us optimism. Speaking of copyright, artists, etc., all the other references of the Prime Minister, especially about Kastoria, moved in the spirit of the well-known song that says, "Who saw a lighthouse in Psiloritis, in Elassona white sail", after speaking of an airport - port of Kastoria, an airport, which has been left in its last two years, flights have been reduced to half - from six to three - and no funding is provided for by any program. The Prime Minister's vague reference has not given rise to any specific funding. The most likely is to speak of another magical picture of the SYRIZA - ANEL government. For unemployment in Kastoria, for the problems of the primary sector, where the farmers of Kastoria are still waiting for the 2016 compensation, for the development of culture and tourism in Kastoria, the Prime Minister's reports were not even moved at the election level, but at the level of journalistic records. So I don't think anyone has much to comment on. So now we are going to the current bill of the Ministry of Culture and Sport, where, unfortunately, as in most of the bills, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government chooses to redeem parliamentary procedures once again and to deprive it of the opportunity for fruitful and substantial dialogue - this is democratic dialogue, Minister, and not the dialogue between you - on a very important subject, concerning the collective management of intellectual property rights. Minister Tuesday in committee on the urgency procedure, for we only have five minutes to talk to each Member, he told us that he had to have been voted on since 2016, a year ago. Who's to blame for delaying? Is the Opposition? Is that why it's our fault? A Community directive, which could lay down rules and strengthen transparency in the area of collective management of copyright and the operation of collection-management agencies, is incorporated with this draft law with fifteen months' delay. On 10 April 2016, the date of transposition was the date of 10 April 2016. It's probably still the Opposition, and that's why. So while you had 15 months, Minister, to incorporate this directive, you are literally bringing it into one and the urgency procedure, without democratic dialogue as you have told us. It was previously necessary, of course, to change three Ministers and obviously to withdraw - by pressure - the relevant bill submitted in July 2016 on Mr Baltas's ministership. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, because it is a large bill, you will give me the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u247	You'll have tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u248	Thank you. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] While you were delaying and writing and erasing the bill, anxiety and upsetting in the field of creators and users were growing. You didn't answer why you changed it. So you brought a bill, which, while you would expect it to give solutions, to strengthen transparency and legitimacy, does, however, have enormous problems - as we have seen from the operators' hearing -. While the bill, essentially copying the directive, regulates the framework for the operation of collective management organisations and strengthens transparency, does not seem to do the same with the independent management bodies, to which it grants the same rights, but not the same obligations. Why, is that so? Why, Minister, do you see Article 51 of the AEOs in a dominant position and provide them with greater protection than the others? There is no such distinction in the directive. Why not apply the same criteria to all LEIs and not all are protected in the same way? Also, in Article 45, as our rapporteur rightly pointed out, provision should be made for compulsory negotiations between collective management organisations representing music and representative bodies and users. The optional procedure provided for in the article, I am sure that it will create great problems and confusion between IACs and users, and we could well go to compulsory negotiations, as is done in all European countries. Why, in fact, do you abolish the mediation committee envisaged between the negotiations between the rightholders and the court of appeal and which had the know-how to propose pay for the whole country? So who will now determine the fees? The courtroom? Does the judge have such know-how and experience? But you're making them the judges of the Prime Minister's office. You're gonna tell me why not? Also Article 35(2)(a). and (b) the arrangement for a reasonable remuneration scheme is at least unfortunate and obsolete. You should know that the European Commission is preparing a recommendation that harmonises and consolidates the rules for the collection of fees for authors and for the private reproduction of their work. Therefore, it would be reasonable to expect that you adopt the recommendation and then legislate in accordance with common European legislation and practice and not on the contrary. But where can one find reason in the way you legislate? In conclusion, I would like to point out, on the occasion of today's bill, the huge delays that have occurred to this House. In the area of culture, Minister, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government has disproved any expectations. At a time when the whole world of creators and users struggled and waited for the bill to be deposited, the government and the Ministry not only prevented it, but also detracted from pressure. The area of collective management of copyright requires transparency and legality. You, apparently, don't want or you can't secure them. It is, moreover, a long way from the successive changes made by the ministers, as well as from the disappearance of the Balta bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u249	Thank you. Mr. Theocharopoulos has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u250	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we have another proof of the disapproval of SYRIZA's announcements, which pre-electionally stated that "as an expressioner of the Left and the role that it has played over time in the spiritual and cultural spheres it proposes a cultural policy that is free from strangles and customer relations". I'll explain why in the process. Two and a half years now, what were the government's initiatives? What were the opportunities that we were given to discuss issues relating to culture? In the end, is there any central coordination, which would not change from the changing of the ministers, which would bear witness to the design and implementation of a visionary cultural policy? We have not discussed any bills on culture, ladies and gentlemen. On the contrary, relevant fragmentary and incomprehensible provisions have come in the form of amendments. I will recall - the Minister mentioned this - and I did not expect the most recent example of the appointment of the artistic directors to the DDITHI, for which the dismissal of the high school is considered sufficient. We also stressed it on that day when that parliamentary amendment came - in an unrelated bill - and we said that it should not be accepted. Ms. Konordou, recently - February 2017 - you replied to Mrs. Kefalidou in Parliament - I read from the Minutes of the House - "This is the first time that there is an open dialogue with the creators and who themselves are in the process of assemblies, collective decisions to deal with their own problems. This is done for the first time through the open dialogue that we have created." That's what you said in February 2017. You brought this bill into the form of urgency today, with the same unacceptable tactic, while we would expect you, who are not a political executive, to have at least another logic and not to have the logic of urgency here today. While you were saying these about the creators and the dialogue that has been developed, we see a week ago the letter from the Association of Greek Books, the Society of Greek Theatre Authors, the Society of Greek Literaries, the Association of Greek Science Books, the Association of Athens Book Publishers, the Association of Libraries, in which the following are mentioned: "We strongly denounce the leadership of the Ministry of Culture, which is quite surprisingly intended to abolish the copyright of authors and publishers. It is unreasonable - if not suspicious - why the Minister did not raise this issue in public consultation, but is inclined to regulate with her own destructive, creative way. It has never happened in the past by a Greek Minister of Culture to deprive authors and publishers - those who said in February that you are discussing copyright in violation of Community law and the Constitution. It frightens the anti-democratic way that the Minister attempts this coup d'état abolition of copyright without public consultation, without any updates of affected sectors - authors, journalists, publishers - for which he has an obligation to operate." And they refer to the letter and many others. I read these to tell you that you either did not have a proper consultation or did it and simply did not understand you. There's no other explanation to blame for all these clubs. And in any case, I think you and SYRIZA have been saying: 'We must give them importance, take into account their opinions', and so much else. So we have heard you today say that the state is coming to support the interests of creators. In this way, which no one understands, does the Scientific Service of the Parliament not understand? And I'll explain in a moment. In fact, you are accusing the opposition that it has no proposals, and we have made concrete proposals to you in committee too. If you were to say that to the institutions, then it explains why there is no consultation: for the same reason that there can be no agreement many times with the opposition. Of course you said that operators' views were integrated. I have told you - and I have other information to mention - about the protests that still exist today. You also told us that only five articles had disagreement. Are we serious? Is this a quantitative matter? If, in other words, you are bringing regulation and abolishing copyright in an article, will we say that there is disagreement in an article? It is not a quantitative matter, and I think you understand that. Let me tell you, for example, about an article, about Article 55, what the Scientific Service of the Parliament says: ‘The case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Union shall be noted. According to the Court of Justice of the European Union - and it mentions Article 5 and gives an example of Portugal - such an interpretation would have the effect of making paragraph 1 of Article 55 vacant, thereby removing any practical effectiveness. In line with the essential objective of the directive, the directive seeks to ensure that creators, artists and performers are able to obtain sufficient income and to depreciate particularly high and risky investments. Consequently, the exemption of all categories of institutions which make loans of this kind from the obligation laid down in Article 5(1) of the Directive would deprive the authors of a fee which could depreciate investment.' And the Scientific Service of the Parliament continues: "The derogation is established for certain categories. It is, however, noted that the retroactive application of the provision may affect the rights of the authors to whom they have not been satisfied. In the light of the foregoing, a consideration shall be given to the compatibility of the non-payable remuneration for authors, both with the above provisions of European Union law and national law, which guarantee the right of authors to be paid.’ That is what Parliament's Scientific Service says about the Constitution of the country and European legislation. In a Community directive, therefore, where agreement could be reached on the need to integrate it, arrangements are in place which the Scientific Office of Parliament says are far from the requirements of the Constitution and of the European Community directive. I referred to only one article in Article 55. Today, then, we are again in the unpleasant position to discuss a bill that comes under this procedure. The dance of bad legacy keeps for the government. We wonder again and again: Why a bill that is dragged two years had to be tabled in this way. What's here? What urgent is there to keep it from being discussed in five days, as it should be? Is this a Memorandum of Understanding? After all, you said recently that the issues of evaluation - your statements are - we will therefore be able to deal with all these issues in our comfort and resolve them. You have, therefore, managed to harmonize the Community directive to develop into a major problem. I am not talking about the interior of SYRIZA - this is not about the country - but about a huge problem of credibility towards users and creators. All of this while the noise from the "GDP" scandal, which operates in a non-transparent and arbitrary manner, has not yet been cut off. What can anyone say? According to 'life goes beyond imagination', this government goes beyond imagination, but also beyond tolerance. This bill should be withdrawn and re-issued after substantial and thorough consultation. Of course, because I have also referred to the 'GDP' - it has also been discussed before - the administration of the GSP has actually been allowed to operate in its own way, in its own parallel universe. We have said this from the first moment in the last few years and we have stressed that we must implement, impose transparency, accountability and participation by authors in collective management organisations. The Union's intellectual property rights directives therefore already provide a high level of protection to beneficiaries and therefore a framework in which the exploitation of the content protected by these rights can take place. I will not stay in the details that have been discussed. But I would stress that this government is experimenting and staying on paper exercises systematically. Two years has passed a serious bill, and one would expect a sound bill to be tabled following substantial consultations. It didn't happen. That was not the consultation. There was no research, no plan, no preparation. The government has all these conditions, and this bill adds to the provisions of a directive, a number of provisions, which, if anything, give rise to concerns about democracy, transparency, the principle of equality, legal certainty. Of course, amendments have also been incorporated which are completely irrelevant, such as those for the WEU. Ten days ago we discussed here a bill from the Ministry of Sports. But is that possible? A week ago, all these issues were raised and an amendment to the NCA came to be incorporated into this bill now. In any case, a little seriousness and a little responsibility for there being proper legality. Modernising the whole system, and in particular this distribution of academic writings, must address both institutional, educational and scientific issues and a number of technical and economic issues, with the aim of rationalising the annual expenditure from the state, maintaining and improving the level of student access to scientific material, protecting copyright and not overturning the activities of the publishing industry. The government has a duty, but also a political responsibility, to support the people of the spirit, the art, the creators and their rights. That is why we need an integrated plan of changes, reforms, but it will be the subject of wide and multi-level consultation. It needs vision, but also realism, planning and programming. This government systematically denies it, of course, not only in the specific bill that we are discussing today, civilisation, but also in all matters. I think you're working in a parallel universe, dear ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Today the Minister told you that "traders, crafters and professionals consider us benefactors..." made this statement - "...and that the world of the Chamber of Commerce and Crafts considers the Government to be benefactors". At the same time, tomorrow we have a new retrospective engraving for fifty thousand free professionals and a dead end. Is that what you think you can convince someone? Do you really think they're arguments? Do they express you? Your Minister, the government of SYRIZA, has told it today. At the same time, of course, the attack on the independent authorities, on justice, goes on. Today, as soon as the SYRIZA Secretary attacked the Governor of the Bank of Greece, who has an obligation on matters relating to him to be placed in the institutions, based on his capacity. Of course, all this goes on. All you have done and changed as a strategy, because it seems that it was no longer coming out of you, is to say at last, to blame the New Democracy for the deficit of 15% that it left in the country in 2009. The five-year destructive Karamanlis 2004-2009 you were talking about, you were saying nothing. For the first time yesterday, the Prime Minister referred to this deficit. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, the deficit reduction has been made at the costly sacrifices of the Greek people over the years, and you cannot even try to sacrifice the deficit at the moment. Mercy, do you know what you're talking about? Even with the reduction of the deficit, which, as we very well know, was done with the blood sacrifices of the Greek people and, in any case, you were unable to achieve it. All you have managed is to commit the country to primary surpluses of 3.5% for a five-year period, to overtaxation and to undermine the country's country's ability to exit...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u251	Mr. Comrade, please, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u252	So the same in the general policy of the country, and the same in the field of culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u253	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u254	At least in cultural matters, Minister, we expected you to have another understanding, because you are not a political official, but you are an artist. That is why we have been waiting for at least on these issues, or in the form of urgency, to discuss them today, but to discuss them in another perspective. That's what culture needs at last.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u255	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the top Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, sixteen American students and three educational attendants from Michigan State University. We welcome you to the Greek Parliament, dear friends! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The Minister wants to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u256	I would like to clarify that, as was the letter of the bodies representing publishers and authors to the Prime Minister, there was a corresponding letter from the bodies representing academics, schools, public libraries, with a strong protest to the Prime Minister, resulting from this unexpected and surprising move on the part of publishers. We found ourselves among these two opposite and conflicting moves, which is why, already the evening before the Ministry of Culture last night, we asked the two parties to come into communication with each other and to find a joint proposal so that it would be mutual consent to what we are going to present to the House today.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Minister. Mr Christos Hadjisavvas from Golden Dawn has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr President. I still couldn't figure out what the reason for the emergency is, when a year and a half before that law had come and it was withdrawn and as a pretext you are using the incorporation of the directive, which is from 2014. Suddenly, you think it's urgent to end within three days. Thirty agencies came in that spoke from three minutes each, those who were able to come in the summer. This 2014 directive can have changed or changed now or changed in a few days. We'll come back to legislate later. In addition, however, more generally, there are questions about copyright, again worldwide. Do you think that there can be a fair recovery of copyright? Do you think there can be a fair return if you manage to collect it? Do you think there can be protection of copyright? Worldwide there is a history of these issues. The huge music industry and the film industry, of course, in the United States of America, are huge, because it involved billions of dollars, with huge legal offices, with lawyers ready to deal with any kind of piracy or violation of rights. No one dared to play anything without paying off these colossians, and suddenly the Internet came. All connected to everyone, created software, such as the napster, which kneeled all these colossians. He didn't sell any material. Users shared with this software, the Peer - to - Peer, between files, music, movies later, books. From $18 million, then, in the month that this application was presented, the profit of these companies fell to $4 million. So they were forced to buy this software and sell cheaply online, even free at one time, if their own companies have their own products, just so that the user does not resort to their illegal acquisition. Besides, is the free use of a file or its legal market, and then the illegal reproduction and sale of it? So music doesn't just kill her. The excess profits of multinational corporations also kills the state overtaxation. It is not possible for a Greek to go right now and buy a cd music that makes 18 euros, 19 euros or 20 euros, when in Europe and in other regions a single price has been set, so that it can be easy to access the user and to make profits for States with reasonable taxation, but also for companies. But all the problems that are global here in Greece do not concern us. We haven't reached that level yet. This is all about "GDP", a family business that I don't know when and how it was created, which nobody actually touches, with people like Tsakni on the boards of directors at times who have created a social problem with this company. They have demolished micromass and not only the ones selling music, but also the ones where music is not the main object of selling. So someone's not going to a barbershop because he likes the music he plays there. They'll pay as much as they do. They've booked shops because they couldn't pay or why they took off the music they couldn't pay. They drag on to the courts, pay huge sums, and now they're still pending and you haven't taken care of them. You said, "We'll leave them in their luck and what the courts say." The worst of all is that these shopkeepers and users who were exterminated think that the ones who took the money and are their opponents are artists. In fact, however, the artists and users were deceived by the "boys" of the "Boys", which often received wages that were multiples compared to artists who played from morning to night on radios. In 2016, the Commissioner who entered the "GDP" said that 22 million euros were collected and zero money was found in the fund when it was to deliver them to the artists. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, and I shall be coming to an end. In other words, imagine what receipts were made by this company, the "GDP", the years when there was no economic crisis and, of course, the artists did not get it as they say. The nice thing is that a fellow Member has tabled a question to your Ministry about the deception of "GSPI" against artists, but also users and the Ministry has stated that it is unreserved to answer the question, and now it is unreserved to legislate. So if you want to be resolute, drop prices and taxation, find out who stole and stolen the "GDP", put them in jail and then we see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u259	My colleague, Mr Mavrosh, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. This bill is, unfortunately, another example of foreign legislative practice. The Greek framework for copyright since 1993 and Law 2121/1993 is updated through the incorporation of the European Directive of 26/2014. Generally history is known. He was here again, retired, differentiated, and now tabled in urgent procedure. I'm not going into this conversation again. However, from what we have heard at the hearing by the institutions, it seems that harmonisation with the European directive is being done in a controversial way. The hearing of the bodies left me feeling that you only heard some of the people you consulted - as long as you consulted - and I suspect that these are your people in the cultural section at SYRIZA. Let me focus on Article 55, in particular paragraphs 3 and 4, concerning the exceptions and restrictions on copyright relating to academic and other libraries. It certainly needs a balance between the rights of authors and academic research. We heard the objections to the audience by both publishers, authors and creators, as well as the Association of Greek Academic Libraries. We have heard the objections from the Scientific Service of the House today. That is what my colleague referred to earlier. Since, therefore, we are talking about incorporating the European Directive 26/2014, we should say that as early as 14 September 2016, that is, since last year, the process of revising this directive has begun, which we are going today to incorporate into Greek legislation. This directive was debated the day before yesterday - we are talking about the European directive and its revision to the European Parliament - and the opinion of the Committee on Culture was passed. One of the rapporteurs was the Member of the European Parliament of the River George gilogakis, so we also have information from within, as you should perhaps have information from your own MEPs. The vote will take place at the end of October in the Committee on Legal Affairs, which also has the main responsibility for intellectual property rights. So the day before yesterday, various things have been revised which have to do with the exceptions at European level. In fact, Articles 3 and 4 of this review states that Member States should encourage beneficiaries and research organisations to establish commonly accepted best practices regarding the implementation of measures, which we also recommend is to be done here, namely to talk to stakeholders. At the same time, there is a clear description of the conditions, so that this exception can be made to future rights. It says, in fact, that this revision should take place in establishments of an educational establishment or via a secure electronic network where only students, students and educational staff of the educational establishment can access it. Secondly, it must be accompanied by a reference to the source, including the name of the breeder, unless it is impossible. In other words, it puts a specific framework in place and does not leave it in general, so that it scares the creators, paragraph 3 and 4 of Article 55. I therefore think that, on the basis of the revision of the directive which leaves the parties concerned - the authors, publishers, libraries - can, through the Ministry of Culture and Education, find a solution. And the Minister did this sincerely. In order not to go away, it would probably have been appropriate, after this consultation ended, to come to a next bill, perhaps in the draft law on higher education by Mr Gavroglou we are waiting for - we hope not to come in accordance with the urgency procedures - so that we can reach a consensus solution. In Article 18, at the hearing of the bodies, we heard that there should be - and it makes sense - a transitional period of three years for the organisations under development, and not just those that will be created from now on, since they have invested with a specific business plan. As far as the Concert Hall is concerned and the amendment which comes, Madam Minister, we had asked you a question on 8 May on the delay in meeting the post of Director-General of the Concert and you have not answered us yet. We are wondering whether this amendment has to do with this delay, that is to say, if there are some procedural problems that will be overcome by this amendment. Let me close with something that impressed us. Referring to the previous edition of the copyright bill a year and a half ago, there was a provision entitled "Studies of Artistic Education" which concerned the settlement of the question of the equivalence of qualifications awarded by higher public and private schools of artistic education. The graduates of these schools have been hostage since 2003. We now see it coming with a parliamentary amendment and the interest is that the former Ministers for Education and Culture, Mr Baltas and Friendship, along with other SYRIZA Members, are signing up. In other words, they reinstate the same article as a parliamentary amendment. As far as I understand it, you have accepted this amendment, and the question is why it has not come under the normal procedure. Were there any disagreements within the party? Did they get over it? To conclude, therefore, to close because I have exceeded time, we are not positive for this legislation and for the procedures followed, but for the contents of the majority of its articles. The whole process gives the impression that there are shops, which some of them sometimes are closer to their ears and cross their ears, between the lines and the margins left by the European directives, which are too late and we adopt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Madam Minister, you want to make an intervention. I would just like you, if you can, to gather your remarks and tell them all together afterwards. But if you want to speak now, that's all right, as long as it's a little shorter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u262	Mr President, the subject of the Grand Music is very important, which is why I wanted to say it immediately. She's connected to this device we bring.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u263	Is it up to him?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u264	Sure. Because there is a need for this regulation to be made so that the Director can be placed in the House. I would also like to clarify that of the six directors originally planned, we consider it necessary only three. And that's very important to know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Minister. My colleague, Mr Saridis, is following. Then there's Mr. Carras and Mr. Baltas. If Mr Loverdos comes to the Chamber, whose turn you take, because he is in a committee, he will obviously intervene. Mr. Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u266	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a positive comment on the absolute unanimity which the Greek Parliament has shown for the first time when we decided, at last, to give Cyprus's file to the Cypriot brothers. I saw a picture in reports where we are all standing, thereby voting for the sending of the classified files, even those of the 11 first, who were accidentally taken to their homes and have never been found before and have had to resort to the minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, this picture sends a very strong message. This image was liked by the Greeks. There is no fellow citizen who does not know that when we are eating among ourselves we are vulnerable, weak and easily able to blackmail us, which, unfortunately, is already happening, as the facts have shown. Decisions taken with the three hundred together are decisions which have been lacking from our democracy, Minister. It is reasonable and expected that there will be at least two or even three views on each issue on each subject. In Greece, we have all learned for decades to consider it normal to have three hundred different opinions. But the real power of democracy can be identified when unanimity is achieved, after dialogue with arguments. The Greek Parliament has been discussing whether or not these dossiers should be opened and everyone should know what happened, and our colleagues in Cyprus, and also gradually all Greekism, whether in Greece or worldwide. It took many years, but we have come to this point, and we have now accepted that we have a duty - historical responsibility, I would say - to proceed with this decision. I wish we had time to find a way to agree on other very serious issues. Unfortunately, however, we all know well and we all know in this Chamber that there is no time. At the same time that the Government and Civic Antipolitics have been cultivating a war climate, exchanging categories and designations, at the same time thousands of our fellow citizens remain unpaid for 15 months with tragic results. At the same time as we are dealing with the Moscovisi statements and we are trying to assess the importance of the recent decision to recognise that Greece is entitled to an excessive deficit management process, at the same time a young woman was driven to despair and killed herself. At the same time as we are talking about whether justice prevents the government from ruling, at the same time thousands of our fellow citizens remain unpaid and claim their entrants in the courts and ask themselves: But can these three hundred finally agree on what priorities should be for the Greek state of the organized Greek state? Why can't we find what needs to be done to stop the injustices that our fellow citizens are suffering every day and endure because of the bad laws that we, our predecessors, have imposed in this Chamber on Greek reality? Why can't we all get up three hundred and say no more? The laborer's trouble is sacred. Assets must be paid in any case directly, without delays and without discounts. What's got to be done? How many people need to kill themselves to understand that we three hundred have to stand in here and tell those entrepreneurs who exploit workers and leave them unpaid for months that they don't have the right to do that and how will they find their trouble from us when they implement such cruel practices? How long does it take, ladies and gentlemen, to the members of the Greek Parliament to say that uninsured work is not fraud but is a felony? I have been asking, for example, for a long time now how many accidents at work occurred in the country over the last two years and nobody has answered me. I have submitted an ACP for many months, which will remain unanswered and will continue to do so because no one knows how to answer it. From the news, however, every month we hear of accidents at work with tragic consequences. I close my introductory remark, tabling the photo of our consensus in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Saridis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I invite you to take a good look at her. Hear the power we have united. And consider whether we have set the right priorities in our parliamentary work. We cannot find again, if not three hundred, even so many Members who voted for the last memorandum and send out a message to our lenders about what the Greeks think about the effectiveness of the austerity measures that we have imposed on wages and pensions. There are our fellow citizens in the private sector who are not paid. Do you understand that? Our decisions here in this Chamber affect lives. Are you aware of this? I'm on my way to comment on the bill. We are talking about copyright in the shadow of the revelations contained in the findings of the auditors of the "GSP". Some of us showed themselves falling from the clouds. You don't know, ladies and gentlemen, what happened every night in this country for decades. So every night, for some people, the bell was ringing. For others, the state was not in a hurry to send their police officers to enforce the laws, but when the “GDP” was on the phone, the entire state mechanism was working to enforce the interests of a family. How many of our fellow citizens have been arrested under the self-defence procedure because they have not paid for the work of the "GDP"? On the other hand, how many entrepreneurs have been arrested for felony violations of labour law? Everyone knew what was going on then. No one, however, spoke because those who had to speak, the members of the Greek Parliament, in other words, had other interests, had other priorities. The state has been operating for years as a forerunner of the “GDP”. Does anyone not have the political responsibility for this? People have been destroyed by these practices. From the outset we have supported an attempt to put an end to this tragedy. And we hoped that with today's bill and, on the basis of our country's obligation to bring it into line with European law and to go ahead with the transposition of the relevant European directive, we would change something for the better. Sadly, however, while listening to what the institutions have said, I have come to the conclusion that the vast majority of them feel that the present is a lack of and a slap in Mr Balta's previous legislative initiative. A date in the courts, then, the institutions said. And it makes sense that some of them will fight for their survival. You imposed the 20% cap without even considering it. You must consider, Minister, the proposal made by Mrs Bagena, to provide for this percentage to be escalated in proportion to actual revenue. If you do not implement this wall, it will lead with mathematical accuracy to the closure of many small non-profit organizations. So we reward those who have been rewarded for so many years, despite the threats and felony acts of the "GDP", they fought and endured. Today's bill had to be designed to lay rules in an unregulated and violent situation involving tens of thousands of our fellow citizens. Instead, we lawfully introduce speculation as a legitimate practice in the sensitive area of copyright management. Today's bill had to have a special provision for how to protect the Greek song, the Greek cinema, the Greek books, from the necklace of the “GOGLE” and “AMAZON” and many others who will soon try to put their hands on them. Instead, we are making sure that some employees of the Ministry of Finance are seconded to the Congregation of Music. Should we be glad that you do not charge the debts of the "GSPI" on the back of the Greek taxpayer, as you do with the debts of the Concert Musician? Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill does not serve the interests of creators. Instead, instead of safeguarding the special nature of copyright, it treats them as a product, as a matter of land ownership. The additions of Greek inspiration are more than the provisions which we are asking for in Greek law the relevant European directive. Instead of dealing with the particularities of our country, as this directive itself gives us the right to do so, we are, on the contrary, creating obstacles and leading to deadlocks. What if the Council of State judges unconstitutional two or three articles of the present? Who's to blame? Justice? If the laws we ask of justice are not clear and understandable and our most indifferent fellow citizen, then it is not justice. Then it's our fault. Because we here give these laws to justice. Justice doesn't find them anywhere, takes them from us. Two words on Amendment No 1093 and a special 26 on how to conduct the EGC's antiquities. What is happening in Greek football requires seriousness and responsibility on our part. The Greek Parliament blames the justice for being blind. The problem, however, is not the blindness of justice, but the wrong eyes of the Greek Parliament. Perhaps some time Greek families will return to the stadiums and the dangers in prisons. But this time has not even come from what I understand and I appreciate it will be too long to come. For the same reason that the famous exit from the memorials and the long-awaited end of the Capital Controls is too late. You cannot alone impose 153 on the organized interests of Greek football. Like you cannot convince the 153 lenders that you must not behave in this humiliating way in our country. With regard to the amendment of a general number 1094 and a special 27 on the topics of the "Greek Festival S.A." only one comment can be made. These people really have been working for twelve hours anyway. Today we recognize that, as if we could do it differently. As far as the amendment to the Music House is concerned, I will tell you that it is challenging. It is, of course, no more unacceptable than the fact that the Greek taxpayer was charged with the debts that left fraudulents in the name of the "proliferation of culture to the unblemished". Ladies and gentlemen, the expression'solid opposition' began from Trikoupi's time with Deligiannis. Well, then, in what Trikoupis said, Deligiannis would say no, no arguments, he wouldn't know how to turn around and say why. So this expression was cultivated and populism was created here in Greece. From the Centro Association, a sterile opposition, you will not see why the Centro Association keeps alive and tries to do what it actually believes can lead the country out of the deadlock in which it has come. The truth unites. Just because the truth unites, for these truths that I mentioned just before, the Centro Association at first will support this bill. Just for these truths, to show once again the way to consensus, waiting for your side to honour the whole of the Greek Parliament and to be able to reach greater consensus beyond 153, beyond 180, beyond 200 Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The following are colleagues, Mr Carras, Mr Baltas, and then Mr Javarras. Mr. Carras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u268	On the issue of intellectual property and related rights, I have nothing to say but that I endorse all the criticisms that have been made in the Chamber. But I stand on another point. The bill is entitled to refer to other provisions of the Ministry of Culture. I didn't hear anything about them. And since I have not heard anything specific but some amendments, I have been interested in approaching them, to see what they are dealing with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u269	And you got scared.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u270	You'll hear them, Mr. Javarra. So I see that we have an intervention in a law in 3028/2002 on the protection of cultural heritage, with three provisions contained in the draft law. Shall I begin on one hand, Article 64 of the plan? I don't know if it's been renumbered and it's 63, I get it from the original wording. Article 64, then. We say: we have monuments, boats, railway trains, carriages, which are protected under the archaeological law and on the basis of cultural heritage. We say, then, that these monuments can be supported. Frequently. We can, however, dismantle them if there are criteria by a committee for the inability to maintain or to maintain the maintenance costs. And when I read this device, he took my mind to two ships. He went to "AVEROV" and "VELOS", ladies and gentlemen, who are in Trocander and are museums. Do we, then, have further possibilities, which we do not wish to have, to keep them inconsistent? I keep it for note. The next article, Article 65. Here, then, you will allow me to comment. Why? He's telling us something. When we have exhibitions and transfer to abroad mobile ancient objects or objects of cultural heritage or internally there are reports where ancient or cultural heritage is exposed by foreign cultural actors, the Greek state says that it provides the guarantee for the value of these objects, so that there is no risk of damage. I'll remind you of something. Mr. 3028 himself tells us something else. That cellular monuments belong to the property of the state. What has been built until 1453 during the previous archaeological law and what is until 1830 with the newest Law 3028. My question, then, is why, from whom will the State guarantee it, to whom will the State guarantee the damage it will suffer? Minister, you must amend this provision and define it as follows: the person receiving it in his report is obliged to insure them to a valuable insurance company, so that the State does not suffer the damage in the event of deterioration, at the expense of it, because he is gaining from his use in the period of the exhibition, at the expense of the Greek State. Because otherwise there is no possibility of economic, at least protection. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Forgive me, Mr President, I shall conclude. Third issue that bothered me. Article 67. Implementation of projects, without the approval of the Ministry of Culture, when we have intervention in archaeological site, history, a mobile monument, immovable property, by the Ministry of Culture, which is contributed to a programme contract. I have the question: Do we have the possibility of setting terms of protection in the programme agreement or the need for the Ministry of Culture's permission to be eliminated by means of a programme contract which is a contract between various bodies - equitable now - we cannot impose these conditions? My question is important. Can I say two words about the Concert Hall? I was one of those who had reacted because I had said that the Congregation of Music cannot be staggered, in the sense that they told us that it has a value of 560 million and thus benefiting the Greek State. I said, then, that you should not transfer it to the public, but call experts, to see if there is any resolution. And who were those experts? I've also made a suggestion. I suggested the Wagner Foundation and the New York Metropolitan Opera, who have the experience. Today you're telling us something else. I guess we didn't find an artistic director, we probably didn't find the right staffing skills, we'll get the public and we'll put it in. But you are telling us further with an amendment that we will also get public officials from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture and we will make it public. That's great! I have said, Minister, that I am a friend of the lyric theater and of the opera and I do not think that these actions contribute to the culture of this category. One final sentence, Mr President. If Law 2121/1993 is not codified with the current provisions, it will remain inapplicable, as in the past, because it is a luxurious law the current one to be simplified must be understood and made accessible by the non-legislators in order for it to be able to apply, otherwise we will be dealing with the issues of "GDP" again in the future and neither will the creators be able to protect nor function. And why do I suggest that? For the reason that only laws that can be simplified have the potential for successful implementation. My last point, without saying anything else, is this: you say, therefore, that the costs of archaeological research in Article 59 are borne by the project master, when it comes to an extended economic area, the archaeological costs, either in the life sciences or in the research excavations. Why do you say that, as in the case of contracts, these costs are also paid? Is there going to be an additional financial contribution from the State? Let me remind you of Ammonium with PPC. I do not want to get involved in this debate, where the way in which archaeological excavations and investigations have been carried out has resulted in disaster. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Aristides Baltas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u272	Thank you, Mr President. This law we are discussing today is the result, if we go a little back in time, of a very specific political decision by the government. With regard to the incorporation of the directive by the European Union, it was decided that we do not remain in a mere translation into the Greek directive, but we are trying to broaden this data so that we can catch all issues relating to intellectual property in our country, by modernising in this sense the earlier law that had started to eat its breads, because all the electronics, new technologies, etc. have entered the game. At the same time, we knew from specific complaints and from a diffuse discussion and atmosphere that the Greek peculiarity has a very specific thing, which we are asked to deal with, the famous "GSPI" which was essentially a private company, a company of a family, with many rumours for mismanagement, to say politely and at least, but which still represented around the Greek creators in the level of music, songs, etc. And the question was how the whole process of the bill would also be faced with this company. I explained in detail yesterday how and why, from that first idea, we passed a first Balta bill, which many expose from the safe today, we found the mistake of this bill and I confess, I declare that it is brave - here it fits this surname - we have decided to take it back and see it again from the beginning. Why? Why, when you have a company that, with that first bill, you are trying to suffocate it, without sufficient evidence on the one hand, without taking into account who wants to leave the GSP from the middle, create another GSP in its place and, thirdly, without any care for all the creators who were registered in the GSP, you are creating a possibility of destruction at many levels. The first is to stay without any protection. The second is the debts of the "GDP", which appear to be great and wonderful to charge the Greek State, a Concert Hall of Music, as we said, and thirdly, to have no control over what will replace the existing "GDP". That is why we went back to the bill and for a second reason, that that bill, if you like, was higher than it should have been for users. Users and creators are two categories of our fellow citizens, who catch a lot of places in Greece and do well, but they have objectic opposite interests. So such a bill had to find the golden intersection between these interests, without being too much on the one hand or too much on the other, given that in the end, almost everyone would disagree because no one would be fully expressed by a bill like this. That was the reasoning behind this course. On the road we found that there is another outbreak of corruption in the Ministry of Culture. In addition to the "DEPD", which we immediately sent to the courts, we checked, we removed her defense from the absence of control, we arrived in control, we now have evidence of what a company was, completely sinful as it turned out and, therefore, the prosecutor has the floor for the further. Apart from this, however, there has also been a second outbreak of corruption, with old history, which we have dealt with in a systematic manner, because such things require great systematicity and perseverance. He listens to the name of the Solidarity Fund of the Ministry of Culture. It is a mysterious motto due to Mr Venizelos' imaginable creativity as Minister of Culture and his legality, because it is a unique thing. It is a mutual fund, firstly, without mutual assistance, only sponsorship from the Ministry of Culture receives, it does not have legal personality, it is not a union of persons, it has no general assembly, it has none of it, and it is defined by the first act as an administrative board, for which only the Minister has a say in replacing it. This law says that these are the members of the board of directors, it is up to the Minister to change them, but only with his own assent. It's the quintusia of what is complicated, corruption, whatever you want. What's that doing? From then on it gets - listen, it's another terrible invention - percentages of the revenues of the Archaeological Resources Fund. It is a fluctuating figure - Mr Samaras thought at some point to bring it up - that is, a percentage of this revenue goes directly, uncontrollably, to this structure and its board. The alibi? The alibi is a children's station, which is a child's station as a building is granted by the Ministry, so it is without rent, children enter about a hundred with lenient criteria, not "carabina" transparent and cost, if you look at the balances, about five times - according to the softest calculations - than public children's stations cost. We've tabled this to a full question, we're in discussion, and within the days he's going to the D.A. So in this sense our work at the Ministry of Culture, even though it was not the responsibility of such a Ministry, is obviously to find out what the Ministry would call an average level of complexity. Because Greece is not only the many billions of equipment, health and so on, it is also the smallest outbreaks that play around the tens or five million and create conditions for the reproduction of the whole of the former regime. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] That's the story here. I would like to say one more word, if I may, Mr President. I should like to refer to two points which are monolithic. The amendment for schools of artistic education is simply an amendment which creates elementary equality, in view of a major reform that is required, which is the artistic schools of the artistic arts, which must have regular education, proper matching and proper rights. We had started this process. There is a committee in progress that we have designated at that time. And one last sentence really. The phrase that artistic Greek creation needs protection, still applies after the bill. As France and other countries do, it is necessary to ensure that, in the context of a global - let us say it - artistic production in all countries, such as other countries in Europe, we ensure that we protect Greek artistic creation, not only at the level of copyright, but also at the level of legislation and regulations on radios, televisions and so on. in a more general context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Javarras has the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u274	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am a former Minister of Culture at Step, for whom many positive words have been heard in the preparation of this draft law in the relevant parliamentary committee. And, indeed, there is no one in this Chamber who doubts that this particular bill is a legislative flaw, which the current Minister finally ended up bringing it to Parliament. I do not know, of course, how innocent they are exactly what the government has tried to do at times through the provisions which were always succeeding the other, trying - today I understood - to demonstrate that the spirit that brings culture is the spirit of cleansing, is the spirit of combating corruption and consolidating transparency. But this is an overall case that the Prime Minister, all the finance ministers, who are financial prosecutors dealing with this spectacular work, have started first, for which no one has ever prevented you from doing what you had in mind. But three years after what have you achieved? Did you go and put a commissioner in the "GDP"? Tell us, Minister, have you been informed by the financial prosecutors if they have committed the family's property? All this time, ever since this particular, corrupt, as you say 'GDP', has the real will of the state's authority been illustrated somewhere to clear this case? Why have we not answered the justified question the authors have: Where is our money? That's what the creators are asking you to do. I am, of course, obliged by the Step to praise Mr Xydakis' activity and initiative. A lot of people have passed through this ministry. But nothing, no voice had ever heard of this. Despite the fact that I personally and as a lawyer was rival to most of the trials of the "GSPI", I always had the disappointment of all the allegations I made about having an impulse response from the Ice Bay. And it was truly terrible the ability of UCLAF lawyers to deal with all outstanding legal issues and all management issues, for all of them to have been covered by a decision of justice. That is why - and this is where the question of justice comes back - we must criticise the decisions of justice. No objections. What we must not do, however, because we must not join the bank there, is go out publicly and undo the importance and importance of having judges in a democracy and having courts. Even a mill in Potsdam once had formulated this with the very simple words: “There are judges in Berlin,” responding to Kaiser, be careful. But, Minister, you will allow me to tell you that here you are as Minister of Culture, as I have said, you are not a Minister of Justice, you are not a representative of an independent administrative authority, which is intended to do what my fellow Member has already said. But here, you must know that when you go up to this Step you must give answers. And unfortunately, while we were waiting to get answers from your mouth, we heard an applause, which you even denounced with the oyster, addressing this party that sits here and has the historic privilege of calling it New Democracy. And be careful why I say it. Because despite your attempt to revise this piece of legislation, Mr 2121/1993, all you have done is to change it in such a way that it will soon be inapplicable. So this classic piece of legislation, I mean Law No 2121/1993, was introduced to the National Representation by New Democracy with the then Minister of Culture, Dora Bakoyannis, and then counsellor, legal and spiritual, on these issues, a great teacher, a spiritual man, a professor of legal science, who is the late Georgios Koumantos. So this piece of legislation has to be respected. And I tell you, because any incorporation of regulations, which are supposed to arise from this 2014 directive, should have a limit, a filter. Because you happen to be a renowned artist in the theatre area and your lips have passed all the precious metals of the language, which we have been talking about for three thousand years in this place, at least you had to have a concern for that language, say also: "You can't have another in my mind, take freedom and tongue?" in order to continue a brilliant tradition. Instead, we see interesting language pearls of the type 'contractual agreements'. Do you know any agreements that are not contractual? We see - be careful - 'online uses'. It can be said - because I have looked into it - that the committee responsible for translating terminology has been put forward, but when we hear about 'online', translating 'online' or even 'congenital' rights, which, of course, were to be said, we come to the point of thanking until now the word person or persona or personne has not been translated as 'online', because, as you know, it comes from the word 'per' meaning 'dis' and'sono', which means'sound'. Be careful to see the greatness of translation, that is, the spiritual function that tries - and demandes - in foreign words to give equivalent meaning. So instead of person, this in Greek is called "person", I look at you and you look at me. This is the greatness of culture and tradition, which has bloomed in this place and relied on the face. This is what you call "intelligence". Do you know that the word 'entities' came from outside, since there is indeed 'entities' in English, but does not have any systematic unity with the terminology of the law of our country? Here we have the faces and the faces are either natural or legal. These legal persons, I believe, are in breach of these regulations, which are, in fact, nothing more than a market-driven intervention for the functioning of legal persons, which the Constitution wants them to be governed by the principle of autonomy, self-management and self-government. You are therefore adding to them institutions which are not provided for in existing legislation, nor to companies, legal companies, civil companies. My colleagues know here. What right did you put these instruments on? This directive does not give you the right to do so. Because in Article 4 it creates and makes you careful to respect the principle of state neutrality against these legal persons. And what's he telling you? That should be the guiding principle, for whatever you do in the area of intellectual property and for whatever reforms you bring to the collective management of intellectual property rights and related rights, it must be the best interests of the beneficiaries. And not only that, but you must avoid introducing obligations if they are not objectively necessary in order to protect and manage these rights in the most effective way. Unfortunately, you have done nothing against it. All you have done is, perhaps, drifted by some fellow Members of Parliament, to show a truly overcrowding sensitivity to the issues of the "GDP", which you have made a model, which is negative, although, in your opinion, positive, interventions by the state, which will be suppressed in the first court. So what have you done? A hole in the water. And that's not all. These are a number of topics - Mr Karas said here - because it is now a modus operaandi Parliamentary what you are doing. In other words, you bring us a legislative text here, where the title says 'incorporation of a specific directive' and then come with a number of other unrelated provisions and a number of other night amendments, and while we are obliged to talk about copyright, and of course you are deceiving the authors that you are supposedly protecting their rights, and you are going through other arrangements, which are suspected, such as that of the Minister of Culture, for example, which says that there may be interventions in monuments and elements of our cultural heritage, provided that there are signed contracts. In other words, will private individuals who have program contracts with you have the right to do anything without the prior permission and approval of the Minister of Culture? Congratulations! And another more serious thing I'll tell you. You are also creating impressions with an innocent, retrospective reputation of the device you bring, which forbids the payment of rights to authors and scientists for the public lending of their works, with this retrospectiveness, which runs until 1993. Indeed, the person who drafted the report from the Scientific Committee should come here to the House to know him, because he is indeed a great scientist, but more so, he is a mandarin who knows how to say both views and he is supposed to show a thought poll on those provisions that are de facto unconstitutional, without taking a position. The House doesn't need such scientists. The House needs scientists to defend their opinion, to have their minds known and to have the courage to support it and not to say, for example, that "of course, you can give retrospective power to a provision, but it is problematic if this provision is compatible with the fact that, since its implementation, the rights acquired by those authors, scientists, authors, to whom the state must give money, will be destroyed and effectively damaged." Why are you doing this shit? Do you think that this is how you add anything to this long story left with culture? Unfortunately, Mrs Kefaliannis said so, today in your face and on your initiative you are proving that rightly in this area the Left has never had an organic relationship with culture. On the contrary, he had organic officials in the field of culture, people who, as Dionyssis Savvopoulou says, never hesitated to say that they belonged to the Left for reasons that we all understand. And I'll tell you something more serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u275	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u276	I shall conclude, Mr President. Because you're an artist, I'll tell you something else very serious. I am one of those who I really think was exemplary about the Left's relationship once during the mid-war with culture.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u277	You didn't live then.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u278	That's right. But I have studied it, and it will not really be a burden for you to listen to me, because I believe you will agree. So at that heroic time Marx's ideals met with Freud's theories and they gave them a revolutionary movement, the Minister of Education, called surrealism, would say. Most of you are using the word "surrealism" to show that something is completely insane...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u279	Most of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u280	No, from you. I've watched it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u281	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u282	I speak to you, though, never. And because I'm talking to you, here's what I'm going to tell you. So at the same time, when Breton, Jaara, Soupo, Eliar, Aragon, Miro, all of them made this surveillance, in Greece, the Epirikos and Engonopoulos know what they had received from the Left? Go to Spelion to Rizospasti - we did not live it but we have read it - to see how the Left, this today and those who have been ahead, supported civilization.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u283	Mr. Comrade, you've reached seventeen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u284	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u285	Left studies had amazing...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u286	Mr. Darkness, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u287	It's all known. It's all written luckily. The bad news is that at some point we have to put all these self-evident and stereotypes into a phenological elbow and go and approach this phenomenon, of course, in terms of truth and honesty. Because then, Minister, we will understand what besigoths mean today, as Michael Katsarus says.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr. Javarra.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u289	Of course, do not make bad thoughts about the Besigoths. They're real estate human beings, as the poet says, pretending to be the invaders. Unfortunately, however, I am telling you, after your passing to power, that conditions for a new spring are certain, no matter how much you try in particular, will not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Georgiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u291	Madam Minister, I am one of those who really is very great, I would say, astonishment and I can say in a positive way, that I have dealt with your ministry. For all of us who have watched you at the theatre, you are a legend and you have been decorating Greek art over the years. That's why I want to thank you. You are now coming here, however, as Minister and I would like you to answer some specific questions, because in your speech you have already made, unfortunately, you have not answered them. And I have no desire, especially with you, for ordinary parliamentary battles, but I would like answers to questions. Question 1, why are you bringing this bill under the urgency procedure? What's the point? The public consultation of this bill, Mr Balta, began in December 2015. Since December 2015, the Government has been discussing this. What has suddenly made the procedure necessary to shorten parliamentary time? You know, Minister, it is very important that we observe the pretexts in a parliament. So I would like you to tell us: 'The reason why you chose the urgency procedure, so we have deprived the House of its normal parliamentary procedure is that'. I haven't even heard a pretext, an excuse. What changed, that is, since December 2015. Two. I have listened with great excitement to Mr Balta to justify the turn you have been making since the original version of the bill. First of all, for reasons of order and history, it was not a draft law you tabled and then you understood that you were making a mistake. He had got eight signatures of Ministers. He'd been through CENE. It was a sincere government decision. Now that we're not fooling around, we all know what happened. You have a Member of Parliament, Mr Famello, who made a lot of fuss because of his brother, he explained to you what was going on with the "GDP" and because of this fact the relevant lobbying happened to your parliamentary group and you took it back. Let us leave the tears a little, Mr President, and let us go to the truth. That is the truth and I do not underestimate it and I will tell you why, Minister. Because Mr. Famelos obviously tried to tell you and to represent one of the artists. And we need to be concerned here about what it is that has done over the years previous governments not to have faced the great "elephant" in the room that Mrs Kefaliannis said. Were we bad? Destroyed? Is that the account you're always going to tell? Or was that a large part of the artists, as you said before, their overwhelming majority, represented by the "GDP" and any conflict between the artists were many with the "GEPI" and the few opposing ones? What does that really mean to protect special copyright? You did not raise this at all, nor did you say it here, nor did the Minister explain it. I'll tell you why you didn't say so. I was expecting you, Mr Baltas, to answer for Rule 51. But Article 51, Mr Baltas, has passed it and made me very much impressed. Do you know why? Because you're a real Dr. Jekyll and Mister Hyde. The first day you understood that you should hit the "GDP" because it has a dominant position, in the words of the Minister, and in some way we have to deal with it. You filed a bill with eight signatures of Ministers. Then you realized that you can't do this, because if you suddenly break down the "GDP" would leave space to enter this field uncontrolled copyright management teams that could really affect the interests of the creators. You got the second version of your bill. And is Mrs Connordos coming here today and what is she doing in Article 51? In Rule 51, Mrs Conniordos - and I would particularly like you to reply to me in particular - you also write about those independent entities that are created in the future. Mr Balta, is that why you would have told me a word? Because this is the whole bill thing. We sit down and talk about the bill and all the sign of the bill, Minister, that's Article 51. What will he say: 'And as many independent entities as are created in the future'? Can you tell us about the Greek repertoire and the Greek artists who worry that this paves the way for the large multinational companies to come to build such management organisations in Greece and disappear the Greek song? Is that why the Left has something to say or you have nothing to say? That would be interesting to answer, Mr Baltas, and you have forgotten. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Now let's go to the publishing section, Minister. Don't take it as irony what I'll tell you. Thank you from the bottom of the heart on a personal level and I will tell you why. I, as you know, am a book publisher. In the publishing area, I think I'm not cutting glaukas in Athens, it's almost a overwhelming majority on the Left. We were always "Georgiadis Publications" like a fly in milk. The left all gathered and a couple of other ones right and left. Since you brought Article 55(3) and (4), most of the calls have been received by fellow publishers I have received since the first day I have been in the publishing room. And I've been since 1993! That is, twenty-four years have passed. Twenty-four years have not taken me so many publishers, in their overwhelming majority of Left, most of them party members of SYRIZA, to exalt your government in a way that I cannot transfer to Parliament. What was the excuse you brought? The excuse is that you've been scared of a letter. And because of that fear, you didn't have a dialogue. That's what you said. I have it in the Minutes today from your speech. Because of the letter you received, because you should pay for libraries in copyright management agencies, you suddenly made the move in a hurry, Minister. You said the other contrast. After you explained in your speech why there was no dialogue before you could bring Article 55, you said, "Thank you to our speech, they sat down and discussed." Both! And there was no dialogue, because our decision was sudden because we scared, but also because of our resignation, they sat down and discussed. Just a pair of yours!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u292	Mr. Georgiadis, you're done. You've spoken seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u293	I only get 30 seconds. Article 55, as far as retrospectiveness is concerned, will certainly fall into the courts as unconstitutional. And don't go out again, then blame justice like you're doing all the time. The unconstitutionality is obvious. And I must tell you that such huge changes in a sensitive space, such as the publishing site, which is currently in a very great crisis, must be carried out with great attention and exhaustive dialogue, Minister, and not suddenly. I'm just closing up with one last question. You left a hint in your speech, which I confess I did not understand. You referred to the multi-annual controversy against the 'ENPI' and its excessive charges since 1993 for a group of artists and you said, for instance, from the Minutes: 'these artists have now been vindicated and that is no accident at all'. What do you mean, it's not random? So has there been some kind of intervention of yours for their justice, or has the situation just matured in Greek justice? I do not want to say names in Parliament, because times are very bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u294	The question has been raised, Mr Georgiadis, let us not explain it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u295	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u296	Mr President, please, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u297	There's no personal, Mrs. Vakis. You didn't even mention your name.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u298	No, he's talking about the Minister in his absence. You'll give me the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u299	Now I'm talking. Seeds talking.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u300	You're talking, but he can't offend a minister in his absence.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u301	You didn't even mention your name. If you need to respond politically to what you have heard, there is a time to speak. There's no staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u302	I am a parliamentary representative and has been the Minister of Government for his ignorance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u303	When the time comes, you will speak as a parliamentary representative and have 12 minutes. There's no staff! Madam Minister, please, would you like to make legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u304	Mr President, you cannot give the floor selectively. It's anti-parliamentary behavior and morality!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u305	Mr President, on personal grounds I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u306	Look, I will give you the floor because it has been mentioned several times in your name. But, you understand, you are an experienced man, that there has been a criticism of your previous term. They're doing this in the House. What can we do now? You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u307	You're right, Mr. President. I would have let it go like this, but there is an explanation from Mr Georgiadis that concerns me personally and on the one hand, on the other hand, my colleague here, Mr Famello, who is a placement - an explanation that makes underground streams of communication, forces that come back and get me into trouble before, etc. I do not want to exacerbate the situation, obviously, but as long as the debate takes, and as much as that can be believed by Mr Georgiadis or someone else, this has not been the case. That's first. Secondly, I have explained for a long time the whole process from how we arrived from the first day we took place to this day. Thirdly, with regard to the 'GDP', I said it before and simply add to what Mr Georgiadis said, such as that we had the problem of 'GDP' because it was a majority, that we, Mr President, had the management control, and we had rumours about what the 'GDP' is doing. These presumptions and rumours go to the prosecutor and I politically - they are not personal, to God - one of the previous government responsible for this matter, to tell us what he did for the rumours of the "GSP". Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u308	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u309	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u310	Mr. Georgiadis, listen. You referred to Mr Famello and made a point which, if Mr Famelos were here, I would give him the floor for five minutes to answer. But don't go on with that thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u311	For a minute, Mr President, to solve the misunderstanding. Just give me a minute. I'll turn it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u312	Please, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u313	I am truly impressed by the reaction of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. Mr Baltas said they had an initial bill, they realized they were wrong and went to a better one. I, too - beware, did not blame - for this change in terms of the improvement, according to Mr Baltas, to a colleague from Mrs Vaki. And that gives rise to impression. I mean, that's considered slandering. The fact that I said "bravo" to Mr Famello who changed the position of the Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u314	Mr. Georgiadis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u315	You will give me the floor, Mr President. He can't offend me.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u316	Wait a minute! Unless the change during Mr Baltas was not on the best but on the other hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u317	Mr. Georgiadis, please. You're saying that you believed Mr. Balta when you gave a full explanation why he did it. Because of Famelou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u318	And then it's Mr. Famelos's fault. But then Mrs Vaki's reaction is justified.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u319	You will necessarily give me the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u320	You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u321	And Minister, you have taken the floor, but you have said nothing about Article 51, for which I have so much challenged you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u322	Mr. Georgiadis, you don't have the floor. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u323	Please, it can't offend me. You'll give me the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u324	What for, Mrs. Vaki?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u325	He mentioned my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u326	He mentioned Mr Baltas and answered the matter and I told you that if Mr Famelos was here, I would of course give him the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u327	You'll give me the floor for a minute. He mentioned my name. I also have a right as a parliamentary representative to speak now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u328	But, Mrs. Vakis, I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u329	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u330	This perseverance now for what? You have 12 minutes to talk. Can't you make the report there?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u331	I have a right to speak from the Rules of Procedure. And now I am a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u332	Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u333	The Vice-President, Mr Javara, and his fine references to surrealism and art streams, unfortunately, came the Vice-President, who once again made public use of the word with a parapolitical caffeine gossip. You refer to the absence of a Minister - I am not Mr Famelou's advocate - and by sub-committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u334	Why isn't he here? Plenary, we've got a meeting!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u335	...and with a lousy political level in the fact that he was neither a little nor a very "successful horse" withdrew the bill, thus insulting the Minister, Mr Baltas, and invoking connections with his relatives. Is that a level of parliamentary speech? Is it parliamentary ethics? Rise and shine! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u336	Mrs Vaki, I have to tell you that Mr Baltas has responded much more overallly on this point. You didn't need your remarks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u337	It's all right, Mr. President. We have a right to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u338	You don't have a right every time you hear something. Mr Baltas said it before and said it in total.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u339	He mentioned my name.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u340	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u341	Mr. Georgiadis, what do you want now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u342	Is it possible after that I won't take the floor? He called me a caffeine, you lousy. Only he didn't beat me! Isn't that personal? That's the staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u343	I feel like you're in the mood. You are now available and so on. And we're discussing issues...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u344	But you understand that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u345	What do I understand? He made a full reference to issues much more serious than that, and this story about art and the Left did not happen. And now we are talking about Mr Famello's intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u346	You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u347	You have the floor for just a minute. I'll cut you in one minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u348	In fact, I am amazed by the wording and vulnerability of Mrs SYRIZA's parliamentary colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u349	Rescind.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u350	It is unthinkable to me that, with these phrases, it has characterized incidents known to Greek citizens by hundreds of different publications and not parapolitically. However, I come a little, Mr President, to the essence of this matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u351	What substance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u352	I am referring to the substance of the personal matter. You should not have allowed her, Mr President, to use this phrase. ‘Speechless’, ‘great’, ‘who’, ‘cafenob’. What's this? This is Parliament! I have spoken to her like this, or have I given her the right to refer to me in this way, when we know, Mr President, that we are constantly talking about people who are not present? And under the Rules of Procedure they have the right to come and answer at any time. I conclude by saying this: Today we are talking about the Health Committee, SYRIZA has voted not to invite me to the examination and to leave me for Christmas, while mentioning my name at every sitting four hundred and fifty times.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u353	Now that has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u354	And will Mrs. Vaki teach us now why Mr. Fammelos was missing? Here comes Mr. Famelos. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u355	I said earlier that if Mr Famelos were here, I would give him the floor and, indeed, with all the comfort he wants to speak. Mr Famelos was just mentioned in conjunction with a way that Mr Baltas handled the bill, I gave him the floor and rightly answered the whole question. Why are you insisting on this now? Fighting precipitation?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u356	Always!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u357	My colleague, Mr Ayhan Kara - Yusuf, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u358	Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary the bill on intellectual and related property, a bill which attempts to organise the management of the rights of thousands of authors with a view to being attributed to them in order and transparent terms the money generated by the work they produce. After exhausting consultation and fermentation between all the parties, the Government submits to Parliament a bill that finally brings artists to the fore and ensures that intellectual property will be protected by organisations, which have been operating in a non-transparent manner in the back of surnamed and anonymous creators. As described in a glaring way in the report, unfortunately since its establishment the "GSP" manages the rights of artists with the sole aim of profitability - the profitability of the few - while attributing little to the creators themselves and acting on the edges of the law by yielding little to the state itself. This bill attempts to set a order in both the operation of the "GDP" and the operation of the other organisations representing the creators from all over the range of the artistic space. In particular, strict rules and frameworks are in place in bodies managing copyright and related rights, while in their management and supervision bodies the authors themselves will be involved in order to have a say in the way in which their work is managed. There is also, at last, uniform rules on transparency in the way they operate and decide on these legal persons, in order to ensure that the parties involved are equally informed of their rights and obligations and that they are treated equally. The procurement of the agencies for their operating expenses shall be determined as meaning that it shall not exceed 20% of the Agency's gross revenue. According to the data so far, there has been no ceiling and there have been scourge phenomena with some organisations collecting up to 50% of their revenues for the same benefit. The State and in particular the Ministry of Culture assume a supervisory and control role in the market for copyright and related rights, but will also be responsible for authorising collective management organisations and independent entities. These bodies should operate in full transparency, but also be sustainable. However, there is provision when these criteria are not met, sanctions should be imposed and not a padlock. An important element of this bill is also that a structured negotiation is introduced between users and their representative organisations as regards amoequivalents for the public execution of music in shops and healthcare businesses. It will be compulsory to post them to the Intellectual Property Organisation, and it will be mandatory for all types of transactions to be carried out electronically so that there is full transparency. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has finally come for justice to be restored for thousands of creators, artists, so that their spiritual effort no longer constitutes a product of exploitation by a small minority of pimps of expression and creation, who have for years been blocking the space and cultivating a regime which works for the benefit of artistic creation. This bill helps to ensure that the protagonists in this case, who are not themselves authors - artists, have the same reason for the fate, but also for the commercial value of their creations. Our government puts an end to it and brings the creators to the fore. I call on all of you, if you are sensitive to this issue, to vote in favour of the bill and to contribute to our efforts to provide effective support for small and large, surnamed, but also less so-called artists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Fotini Vakis has the floor and Mr Panagiotis Ilioopoulos immediately thereafter. Here, Mrs. Vakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Mr President. Let me say first of all that I am very sorry about the previous incident in the House. I think that this is why citizens are, unfortunately, turning politics. The relationship has been irreversibly damaged and I will insist on it, because such samples of writing are the absolute benefit of public speech and this is not a parliamentary behaviour. So I'm on my way. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there has been a very worthwhile debate in the committee. There have been too many arguments. Of course, the famous communal pillows on the part of the Antipolitics have also been heard. We have heard of monstrous, monstrous and embarrassment by the MPs of the Partnership against this bill, of homogeneity and a storm of criticism and everything else. Now, let us not talk about monsters, because many monsters have been created in this area in the past few years. We didn't make the abscess of "GEPI" and the abscess of "GEPI" didn't break it all these years. It was a crime that everyone knew and no one spoke. And this government had to come and send a verdict on Nikos Xydakis, Aristides Baltas. So, I think the monsters are responsible for others. As far as Mr Baltas is concerned, we have also heard a nostalgic appeal from the name of Mr Baltas and the excellent bill at the time, which we still have the stamps and you all had a hurry to win - now all of a sudden everyone is nostalgic. He explained why he was withdrawn: for no one wanted to build a new "GSPI" in the place of "GSPI", no one wanted to put them hostage, make them captive again to a new type of "GSPI", because no one wanted to be repeated again as a tragedy - and not as a farce - the history of the Megaron and make all these public debts. And of course, there were others. Because we have said about the monasteries, I have also spoken about the mutual fund scandal, which - and this is a splendid field - needs to be explored and cleaned up. Let me now say a few words about the bill. I believe that the purpose of the draft law under discussion is clear already from its first article. It is the regulation of collective management of intellectual property rights and related rights by creating a protective legal shell. The only guideline for legislating - and we have said so in committee - is not only a contractual obligation that we have to incorporate the Community directive, but is, above all, a transparent, transparent one, primarily a fair and sound management of the sums collected in order to keep the creators in a position to be left behind, but also in order not to unfair users. Because we also have this conflict between creators and users. So let us find a balance point. The bill is therefore attempted - and this is the purpose - a balanced solution of a bond and the difficult so far and sometimes dark relations between users, authors and collective management organisations or the independent management entities, which include the many sins perpetrated by the 'GDP', as the colleague rightly described yesterday. And I'd like to make a special reference to her. And in this context, then, the bill attempts a shield or more precisely a strict delimitation of the competences of the Intellectual Property Organisation, which must be licensed and controlled by collective management organisations and independent management entities. In addition to institutional armouring and ensuring transparency, some articles in the bill are taken by a positive spirit of participation and democracy. For example, the general meeting of collective management organisations, which is now considered to be the dominant body in terms of decision-making, in which all members of the organisation can participate, is being upgraded. An important part of Article 9 is the possibility given to independent management entities in a dominant position for the establishment of a general meeting, as well as for the setting up of a supervisory board. It needs the supervisory board and, if you like, the vacancy of the previous law, of Law 2121/1993, is healed. Article 11 seeks to safeguard beneficiaries of any abuse of a dominant position by collective management organisations, in addition to the regular remuneration of the beneficiaries. Article 19(2) sets a maximum time limit within which beneficiaries should receive the sums from their rights, while Article 22(8) increases transparency through electronic transactions and banks between users and organisations. And finally, there's a wall coming in. We now have 20% of expenditure from 36%. I would like to say a few words now about the spirit of the bill. So let's go now to the Commissioner's controversial theme on the grounds of sinful life and the state of "GSPI" and the merciful morality of the well-known family, which systematically weakened the rights of authors and the public interest. The findings of the sworn accountants' company - and I would remind you again that on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Aristides Balta - Nikos Xydakis these accountants were sent and the check was ordered - is a catapult. We heard about EUR 52 000 per month, creating unclaimed jobs, because of the EUR 21 million - it says that last year only EUR 3 million were found. So it's hitting them? The presence of the sworn accountants and the subsequent definition of a commissioner? Is this the fault or the dispersion of the sums intended for the creators? A timeless emblem was the “DEPI”, secrets and lies well under the carpet, which everyone knew or suspected and translated into scandalous wages, virtual increases, arrogant increases in operating expenses, extraordinarily wages of lawyers and others. It was claimed that the Commissioner's presence would bring order and legality, but would run the risk of not paying the authors for a period. Look, it is the opposite: The Commissioner is not a bank commissioner who will enter and incur the public debts, as was done with the Concert Hall and you have left and charged the Greek State with EUR 350 million - and that was then made by a 2012 decision - and whether it is closed or not the Mansion, the debts are there to be borne by the Greek State as the first guarantor. This isn't about it. The Commissioner has been placed to rescue the authors and to restore them, to ensure legitimacy, not to punish those who are not the innocent. The commissioner has carefully entered, precisely so that he does not bear the great debts of a family, the Greek State itself. So let us finally stop - let us be honest - the adversary to the opposition to bankruptcy of the authors because the Commissioner has come in. The authors will go bankrupt and will be wrong, when the legislative framework is absent and the institutional security barriers, from the opacity, the dismantling of their rights, the lack of rules and accountability, the arbitrariness, which were the fronts of an anonymous company that has a place of an independent management entity and has constantly abused a dominant position. We do not want to see an EMPLOYE yet, although it is a European directive. The bet is whether the incorporation of the directive into our national law will take place in a way that will evade opacity, corruption once and for all, and will be given a voice, the rights will be given to authors and will not, of course, be wronged by users. There have been controversies and reproach for delaying the bill, screaming about unrecognized delay. Given the great 'GDP' scandal, I ask fellow Members, in good faith, without any opposition: did you not know that lasting crime? What did you do? Do you hear any accomplices in the murder? Pontius Pilates who felt their hands, fortified behind an obsolete by the state-of-the-art technological development of 1993, which needed updates, as did the conception of copyright itself? Because we are in the era of piracy and digitization, and the gypsy season has passed away. Transparency, corruption and subsequent social injustice exist where there is no legal and institutional framework. Even if there was a delay - the reasons why he explained them in detail, let us not come back, Mr Baltas and today - prefer a bill lately rather than no bill. It is better to enter a bill to protect the rights of authors and users, even with imperfections, with any gaps, than the total absence of rules. Let us look at this, in any case, in the light of compositions and good consultation, because the copyright agenda also has the same distinction that we need to eliminate. There are the bright stars and the obscene, except insignificant, creators, who too have the right to dignity and creativity and who must not drown and marvel at the ignorance of survival or the permanent injustice of "against" and "see when you will be paid". However, there are also users who are many speeds. So let us make rules unprovoked. It's not the same size as the cafeteria at the border with the club of Mykonos. I conclude by the contested provision concerning libraries. Here, let me have a more personal tone dictated by my university status. By letter to the Prime Minister - two, three days ago - publishers and authors express their indignation about provisions added to the bill under consideration concerning the definition of a fair remuneration that libraries have to pay to spiritual authors, but also the right to reproduce extracts or part of their work in the educational process, although many of us - others more, less - could increase our incomes as well, if we were paying the above-mentioned fees. It is neither legal, at least on the basis of the legal framework under Law 2121/1993, but it is not moral for those who are embracing the right to public and free access to knowledge, much more so when the latter is facilitated by the digital age that we are currently experiencing. This is precisely the order of 1993. Without the author's permission and without remuneration, the reproduction of articles lawfully published in newspapers or magazines, short pieces of work, book, etc. for teaching or examinations in an educational establishment, to the extent justified by the objective pursued. This provision, if you wish, is entirely in line with the Community directive in which Member States may provide for exceptions and for the remuneration of authors, provided that such exceptions are made for reproduction made by accessible libraries, educational institutions, museums, archives and others. Look, we don't write books who we're in education, in college, about the profit. We write books, we do research, we offer something, to testify our spiritual symbol to education. That is our role and he demands our work. At this time, unfortunately, in this umbic transformation of high-tech digitised capitalism, there is a contradiction. On the one hand, we see a rapid development of technology, which now allows knowledge to be among the public, to be accessed, and on the other hand, we see poor, fat academics, public libraries, which are done in book warehouses, to plant our students to have the stress of survival, and on the other hand, it is more likely to buy a book. So let us give them the right to break down these walls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u361	Mr President, would you allow me for a minute for some legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u362	Mr. Eliopoule, you'll wait a minute because she wants to make some legislative improvements, the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u363	Mr President, I would like to put forward some legislative improvements for the Minutes to be distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Eliopoulos, you have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u365	Mr President, would you excuse me for a moment?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u366	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u367	Mr President, I should first of all like to say that the legal improvements must be made orally, because the principle of orality is the first one. Secondly, there is a loose end with Article 61 of the bill, which, after the committee, has been lost and has now entered another Article 62. An article's gone! Do you understand? It's not possible! Until today's process is over, this must be restored. Somebody has to look for this article, incorporate it into this particular bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u368	Mr. Javarra, the article you refer to has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u369	...otherwise, the House and its process are now overshadowed. I was expecting an answer from the Minister. I didn't take her.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u370	The article you refer to has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u371	Whose statement?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u372	He's retired.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u373	That is not the case, Mr President. Excuse me. Articles are not implicitly withdrawn, nor are law-makers called with a paper. Are we to the extent to alter the nature of the parliamentary speech? Excuse me, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u374	It's a little overreacting what you're saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u375	I'm not exaggerated at all. I happen to be more consistent with certain procedures and institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u376	Okay. Let's keep your remarks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u377	Can anyone at least tell us how this provision was lost on the road?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u378	The Minister will take this into account and answer. We kept your observation. Mr. Eliopulus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Mr President. We see articles lost, a bill in the form of an emergency, without any reason, on a subject that everyone has known for decades, but no one has done anything. But we have heard both the representative of the New Democracy and the PASOK representative say they have been waiting for others. I was really surprised to be told today that others were waiting for culture from SYRIZA on the left. Why is the Left in Greece? It was some turf that was on the sidelines and they'd be back on the sidelines of social life. Of these people, we expected that they would do something else in culture! So those who, through their ideas, try to contaminate the children's brains, who are trying through an art - God does it! - to intervene in everything, they had to do something else, something higher. The left are above the art! We have also heard this from neo-democratic and pasoktziers. We also learned that Mrs. Vaki is a writer in the last few minutes of her speech, she dedicated us to speaking to the first person and saying that she writes. All right, we've heard that too. Good for you, Mrs. Vakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u380	Aren't you embarrassed to iron me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u381	I don't hear you and I don't need to hear you either. We must now go to the point of this debate. We have to deal with the 'ESDP', an issue that should have been considered for years now, because, as I said again, many people knew and no one did anything. So there comes Mrs Bakoyannis with Law 2121/1993 to give the power to "GEPI", to a private company, which in the eyes of a boulevard, pimpedi - say as you like - entered any shop he thought had to get copyright - in a café in a village that was going to five grandparents to drink their coffee go in and said "so much". Where this amount was set, no one said. However, with the law of Mrs Bakoyannis, who had given them this authority to suck off the various sanitary shops, the GSP could lead to the justice of many micro-shoppers and, indeed, with very great penalties. Through one, I will say, social automation created by the "GSPI", which imposed the collection of rights, had caused the world to turn over over the years - the owner of coffee, coffee shop, hairdresser, gym - against the creator, this man, that is, who had to live from what he was creating, who actually used it. So the user - to say the user, so that we do not constantly repeat where the "GSPI" was going - had turned against the creator and the creator against the user, because he said "I do music, write lyrics, I have to live from it and yet some bad guys don't pay to live." On the other hand, the storekeeper said "who are you to send me to the courts to pay great sums?" In fact, I repeat that by law of Mrs Bakoyannis all this had been done. So there comes an audit and shows us that only in the last few years, from 2011 to 2014, the CEO of "GDP" received EUR 52,000 a month - pay attention - plus bonuses. Other members of the Board of Directors. from 6,000 euros to 38,000 euros. "Other members of the Board are also the President of the ERT Tsaknis Dionysia. We don't know how much this guy was getting. We'll find out everything along the way. In order to return to the beginning, it is the left-wing, populturists and where they can find a hole open, "strengthen", as they said in the Greek film, to settle it. There's a left stop. So in the last three years, 2011-2014, 7.2 million pay for these Golden Boys. What I am reading here and which you see is the question we have tabled with Mr Cassidyras, which is 16-2-2017. The Minister didn't even bother to answer us. He didn't answer anything. We didn't expect him to answer. For remuneration, then, I.C., Presidents, Vice Presidents and other 7.2 million, while 7.4 million went to a company connected with the "GDP" to provide technical assistance to the "GSP". So the "GSP" has been collecting all these years from users and delivering literally crumbs to the creators. He keeps the lion's portion for the Golden Boys. We say in our question: what exactly does the undistributed rights of authors, who have not been awarded and distributed to members, amounting to EUR 42 million on 31-12-2014, amounted to exactly the same amount as that of EUR 42 million? No one's answered us until today. We don't know. They do not know the authors, who - I repeat - expect to live out of this issue of rights. So we come to Mr. Xanthopoulou's private company with its paradoxes, who like pimps - I repeat - shared money among themselves. Now the subject will be raised, because, when the GSPD enters and asks for rights from a health store, from a radio, there is no right way of sharing rights, whatever the supervisory body intervenes. I tell you the simplest example: he plays in a café in a village from morning to night a transistor. Do you think the coffee owner will give the play list to the "GSP" so that he can share the amount to be collected from the "GSP" to the creators? It's impossible. The creators yesterday clearly told us that they do not want the GSP to be closed, but want to be reassured. We say to strengthen the supervisory role and control powers of the Intellectual Property Organisation - I say to you very quickly - to tighten the conditions for the authorisation of these organisations provided for by Law 2121/1993 and to set stricter criteria. Because here's what's happened. Other organizations have been created, because some artists smelled the job and created other organizations, which do the following: They go to the same stores that were collected by the "GSPI" and say: "We are here. You will now also give us." "But..." they say, "...we give the "GSPI"". They are told: 'No, now you will also give us, because we represent them and these artists.' So we are saying to reduce this division of management agencies. The existence of a large number of organizations which are alleged to represent even the same categories of beneficiaries - i.e. stigmatists, musicians, etc. - it may not be possible to calculate the sums which they are entitled to receive as remuneration. It is necessary to rationalise, as far as possible, the level of remuneration paid by users, given the economic crisis, which has led to the majority of businesses and professionals being exterminated. So the New Democracy, which has been talking about opacity and mismanagement today, has done nothing for all these years. Mr. Samaras was Minister of Culture a few years ago, he was Prime Minister. He didn't touch the matter. However, since we have no step further than what we are given here, in this House, we are not dating anywhere else, in any channel we are not invited, in general we are excluded from everyone, I will put a few issues outside of the bill, as I have the right to. So I have been creeping out for these days when I hear the New Democracy ensemble for justice. The New Democracy talks about Thanos who went to Tsipras' office and we expect to see the works and days of Mrs Thanos. But until we look at these, we have some other dull cases of the New Democracy, with Babi the Athanasios. From an active prosecutor immediately thereafter a Member shall be appointed. I say 'determined', because he has headed the New Democracy Vote. Of course, he took his piece off immediately after the man. He became Minister of Justice and was caught taking his hand to prosecutors and interrogators to shut us in, tie, as he thought, the case of Golden Dawn. He took his little cut off. They're talking to us about Kammenos, who was badly talking to a isovite. But it doesn't dare to say anything about Samaras, when Samaras called his friend and said, "Tell the one who known the pantheneaic the next three...", and within these three I was, "...when they're going to go to them...beep." That is not what the New Democracy says. This is not an intervention in justice. In fact, there has also been a case-file for the eminent Samaras. We'll do the Committee of Inquiry when necessary. Baltakos says it very clearly. So Babis Athanasios, who started as a mere judge, married a lady with a wage to enter the house and found himself a few years later, his wife and children having luxurious villas. ‘Real estate Babis Athanasios’! This is the definition, gentlemen, of the New Democracy, of development. The development of personal property, of course. How can Mr. Mitsotakis speak of all this when we talk about a man whose family has been a stateman for the past two hundred years and who is also an anti-governmentist? This is a world originality! The whole Mitsotakis family is a state-runer and yet they play counter-staters. Good for you! Here proves you're exactly the same as SYRIZA. You're no different, and that's why you shouldn't move our finger. So what did New Democracy do? He said, "She's high priest of interlocutory" Site. What did he do to the Shirt? Nothing. The SYRIZA's ladies and gentlemen before the elections told us they would send the thieves to prison. What did they do to this day? Absolutely nothing. The same rotten system is constantly recycled. Justice, of course, does not remain outside, it does not remain unavoidable, because it could have intervened for all these indifferences over the last forty years. But she never intervened, because she's part of the circuit. Not all justice, clearly - there are also worthy judges - but those who are the disastrous of political power. Mr Mitsotakis met yesterday - well done - with representatives of eight associations of bisexuals, transexuals and homosexuals and some such organisations. They showed us some pictures from behind, of course, not to see who they meet, not to see what their faces are like. He said, in fact, that any statement by a New Democracy official against these social groups, social networks, special populations will be directly smuggled. In fact, the New Democracy also participated in the Gay Pride. We're talking about this because we don't have another step and the Greeks need to know who the New Democracy represents. The New Democracy does not represent the "father - religion - family". It is only the Golden Dawn that represents that. The New Democracy cares about the perversion, but not about the feeding of Greek citizens. So I'm saying again that you're the same. I had too much to say, but I will confine myself to what I have said. You of SYRIZA only tell us what the exercise "TYPONAS" was that the Greek Police carried out in the last few days and why this exercise took place. Are you expecting something? You should also inform the Greek people, and we should say that this particular exercise concerned the terrorist attacks of Islamics. So tell us - if you have any answers - what information you have to carry out this exercise. We say all these people have to go back to their homelands. We're vertical and absolute in this. I'm closing with one wish. I hope the Greeks will wake up and see who truly represents their fairness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u382	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. My colleague, Mr. Andreas Loverdos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u383	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I will start with something that really concerns us, to see what we are voting on and what we are not voting on. There was an intervention of yours to serve your colleague. You have taken responsibility for digital issues and some more pleasant things from a supervising body and took it to Minister Pappa. You've been condemned, criticised and changed. If I have been correctly informed - I am in another function of the House, and I have not been fully informed - with an article, with Article 61, you have rectified the error at the expense of the criticism you have received. Now I am told that by the renumbering made through the amendments - which you accepted, which you brought, I do not know exactly how they became parliamentary - this article, which kept things better, does not exist within your text. I am informing you that through this way you are trying silently and wickedly to keep the competence of at least where you have promised to keep it. If that is the case, it is a parliamentary term. It is not possible - it is your first bill - to come to the House with terrestrials. You must give an answer and this House must be cleared up on Article 61. So I've been informed and, if I tell you, you'll understand what I mean. The second point is that you added two paragraphs to Article 55 - you have been denounced by the competent bodies - where you remove copyright, but with an amendment that you have brought, without having gone through the consultation stage. Entities complain. It may seem yesterday that there is going to be a debate and that the bodies can understand it and see it as positive, but, as far as I can see, paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 55 remain in the draft law. Once this is published in the FEK, it is the law of the Greek state and must be applied. If you've made a change, tell us. Otherwise, it is right and honest to withdraw the paragraphs and, when you make the public debate, on another occasion or on an amendment to bring them in, having exhausted the legislative procedure imposed on you by the law and which, by terminating the amendments, the governments are trying to overcome many times or the ministers are trying to overcome. To avoid listening to organised society, they make these arrangements. A third point is: You know very well - I have asked you a question and I have not come back, waiting for you to bring a draft law - that I monitor in the form of parliamentary control three, four issues of the many things that the Hellenic Republic has. One of these is the Congregation of Music, which I watch carefully. I do the same for defence and for customs matters. I have three, four issues I'm following. So we have discussed and told you that what you need to do for the House is to bring in the amendment that will definitively regulate the issue that has arisen from a misinterpretation by the General Accounting Office of the Balta Law State. It's the right setting, that's misinterpreted. I told you that. We arrive in August, when you will bring an amendment here at the last minute, because you will not be able to pay the workers and the openings that the House has from its day-to-day operation. Instead of bringing what we absolutely need, which is in line with Mr Baltas - and we as the Democratic Reconciliation have supported the Balta initiative - you are bringing Article 72 here to cover six first - then you say by abstractions, but you correct it - positions which are clear to some specific people. I know who, as you know. But I didn't come here to break faces. They don't blame anything. It's your fault. Can't you find one, two or three to do this job? Are all incompetent and capable of coming? I know one case of distraction that you've done that never hits her leg. So how do you who, by this method, come here to cover 'one', but do you not regulate the main theme of the House, do you have a person to come to Parliament and say things to us? Two hundred people are to fly while those stars you bring are the terrible ones? Because they are personified, you will receive criticism of which you may not be to blame. When these posts are personalized, you will hear them. Maybe you could catch up with it. This device must be withdrawn. You don't need it. The provisions concerning one and the other Megaron, namely Thessaloniki and Athens, do not help. Mr President, in a minute I shall raise two issues. I am following the issue of Cameroon, Minister, which has many problems. It offers an artistic product for a few, but Greece helps it and art promotes it. I see that on this issue too, which has many problematic dimensions, for which it is not your fault, you are not taking any initiative. I am also watching the subject of the Theatrical Museum. I read, ladies and gentlemen, the Georgosopoulos interview a few weeks ago. I had spoken with Mr Balta - through parliamentary control, not personally - and I had asked him whether he was going to take the Theatre Museum there. He told me 'yes, it's in my intentions'. Three ministers have changed in an area that has nothing to do with troika nor with financial difficulties - it has like all of Greece, of course, I do not deny that - in a ministry that is not a Memorandum of Understanding to have other burdens and that Greece has the discretion to make its political choices. Where you have a comfort to do, and the spaces are big, you don't. The interview by Mr Georgosopoulos I read - and by another Mr very important, I am now missing his name - is a catastrophe for poor political supervision in terms of the issues and the Theatrical Museum. I'm closing in a phrase. While you have open topics, which I am absolutely certain that the SYRIZA Members who are related to the area of culture - from me, however, know them much better - and they tell you, you are a victim of a client state here, in your first ministerial step. I do not think that what you are doing is right, Minister, and I would ask you, when you take the floor, to clarify the essential issues that I have raised to you and the legislative issue that I have raised with you with Article 61, which may be of smuggling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u384	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. My colleague, Mrs Zoe Lebanese, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u385	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are debating today a bill from the Ministry of Culture and Sport on the protection of copyright, the way in which they are managed and the protection of both authors and users. For decades, and despite the fact that the vast majority of the parties involved complained of a lack of transparency and strange practices, an intellectual property management organisation has actually become a monopoly in our country, imposed its views, acted as a state in a state and allowed a family, mainly to plunge the property of the real beneficiaries. The government must identify the reasons and gaps existing in the law so that phenomena do not be repeated in the future, with creators becoming hostages. The bill we have in our hands, in addition to incorporating relevant European directives, also contains a number of arrangements capable of preventing the repetition of corresponding "GSPs" phenomena. The government proposal moves to the rules of transparency in all areas of management, sets limits or restrictions, but primarily makes it necessary to involve the authors in their copyright management bodies. At the same time, there is a framework that allows users - particularly professionals, who are legally obliged to pay a price for the exploitation of copyright-protection products - to negotiate a reasonable price for the copyright they exploit. Up to now, the price was actually set by the EPP, without taking into account critical factors such as, for example, the operation of a shop in small villages. The examples I have in mind are too much, since for three years I have been Secretary General of the Board of Directors of the Association of Heads of the Evian Law. The injustices caused by the operation of the ETSC created a peculiar dispute between users and creators, which cannot and must not be repeated. The government's proposals create the conditions for both sides to be satisfied, that the beneficiaries and users should not consider either an extermination or a robbery charge imposed on them. A decisive step is taken in restoring confidence, both in terms of needs and in terms of users. The introduction of transparency rules throughout the operation of collective management organisations allows each beneficiary to be checked. The establishment of time limits, within which compensation will be compulsory for beneficiaries, and the expressly prescribed use of revenue creates an environment of security and justice. The explicit prediction of how decisions are taken by authors, the delimitation of managers and the clarity regarding the management of revenues can guarantee the proper and fair functioning of the whole system for the benefit of its culture and its people. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Apart from this, however, the Ministry of Culture and Sport regulates a number of other matters within its competence. It modernises the framework of the State School of Organic Art, which operates under the 1976 law. The need for this modernisation is distinctive to everyone, since this school has already practically exceeded the narrow, with the current data, the limits reserved by its founding law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. At the same time, following the current trends in the area of culture, the process of exposing exhibits and participating in international actions of the Greek museums is facilitated by considerable savings from the provision of a public guarantee for the transfer of projects from abroad to Greece and vice versa. Extraordinarily important is the introduction to our country of a legislative framework for the mobile monuments of our culture, which have so far been in vain law, so that some are destroyed or there is no clearly defined procedure for proper maintenance. We must welcome the initiative to recognise the work and the offer of Giannis Moralis with the establishment of a prize in his memory. The introduction of transparency rules is also the most important event of culture in the international Biennale report. The existence of transparency and justice rules is mandatory in every outcome of society, however small it is assumed that it is the percentage of the population it is concerned. In conclusion, I should like to refer to an important regulation which includes today's bill and which does not sound. I am referring to the special compensation for the divers of the Ministry of Culture. These workers, in view of the particular circumstances of the country, must meet the needs of the whole territory. The nature of their work is such that it requires additional security and special compensation. With the changes proposed today by the Ministry of Culture they are insured for the risks arising from their work and are not covered by the public insurance system. The Ministry of Culture and Sport with today's bill highlights a number of issues that should have been regulated for many years. Finally, I welcome the amendment tabled by Mr Vassilis and Mr Papadoulou on the establishment of a National Farm Movement Museum.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u386	Complete, Mrs Lebanese.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u387	The big difference is that the members of this government do not understand the office as the head office, nor wealth, nor the cultivation of the reputation and their names. They are seen as a responsibility to society, as a responsibility to history, as a responsibility to the generations that come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u388	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u389	What do you want, Mr. Loverdo?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u390	It is also about you who are presiding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u391	You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u392	I won't need a minute. We have a question for the Minister, who would ask her to answer now. We are asking whether Article 72, which I have spoken about, has the agreement of the Independent Greeks. Until now, Minister, the provisions brought by your colleagues have been passed because the Democratic Partnership was voting. We are now saying that we are not voting on Article 72. If you do not have the support of ANLEs, you will not pass the article and we will table a roll-call vote. If you do not want to be educated for no reason, please tell me now if you have the support of ANELs, otherwise a proposal for a roll-call vote will be tabled. We are not prepared to go on with this little kitten of the game you're playing!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u393	Good, Mr. Loverdo. Madam Minister, if you want to answer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u394	In principle, and on the articles, we know that the ALS will be voting in favour.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u395	We're telling you about Article 72.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u396	Yes, Article 72.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u397	The answer was given by the Minister. So let's give the floor to Mr. Themistocles Mumulides from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u398	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing an important bill on copyright. However, ladies and gentlemen, as I have been following the discussion since this morning, I am surprised to see that, in the context of the debate today, 'two lessons have been given, we have been reminded of surrealism and the relationship of the people of culture with the Left' has finally been sufficiently interpreted! As usual during the last year in the parliamentary procedure, no proposal has been heard on the part of at least the Anti-Population Officer. All that happens in Parliament reminds me of the expression 'where we were owed, I also took the ox'! That's what they're trying to do. They try to change the agenda in a way that is not relevant, so that through the step of communication, through Parliament's TV, they can create impressions. But today we are discussing a very important issue, because we are discussing the right of Greek creators to control and make their work available, as they wish and choose. That's what we're talking about. That is what we are asking for, and that is why we want to be judged. We know that for a number of authors copyright revenues are their only revenues. We must defend this and respect it. We must also know that the area of Greek artists and artists is the area with the greatest unemployment in the country, which is well over 90%. It's an unarmed space, a looted area. The space of culture is an area that may have raised three parties leaders, but there has always been a traditional slogan on the lips of the two parties that ruled the country. In the discussions of the representatives of the two parties, of the parties which preceded, in particular, the New Democracy and the PASOK, we heard these texts that saw the light of publicity in the previous period. In other words, what has been heard here for months has been very critical of the bill that was coming and which is being debated today and which is simply being copied. So this whole thing is creating a framework of exceptional parliamentary hypocrisy. I shall refer briefly to the rapporteur, the representative of the Officerial Representation, who attempts to bring Greek creators closer to each other for many decades, a step further. "If you asked me," he says, "when SYRIZA took over, what is it for the privileged area of the Left", the privileged area of the Left, he wanted to say, "I would say this is the cultural area. But today this space of Greek creators is against the government." That's her conclusion. In her suggestion, therefore, she attempts to dismantle any action of the government in the field of culture. It even came up to talk about commissionership of the Minister of Culture from SYRIZA. So I should like to respond to the agony of Mrs Kefaliannis on whether culture is the privileged, privileged space of the Left, reminding her that what is shaped in post-cultural contemporary culture is generally a natural extension of the 1960s of the Greek civilization, when it was created as a climate, as a result of the struggles of the people and of course of the Left. So let us be modest and more accountable to the history and history of the Greek creators. Because, dear friends of Officership, pity anyone who doesn't dream. We continue to fight and dream. Because when you as a political space adopted in the past in the 1950s and 60s, songs about oblivion, as Hatzidakis wrote, and about unconsciousness, others were singing the memories, struggles, the history of this people and some chose to memorize the poetry of Greeks and sing it in tavernas and underground as humble and despised of a merciless system. To come to the issue of 'GDP', I would like, by addressing the representatives of the two parties that preceded the country's governance, to ask, really, where have you been as government since the early 1990s, when the area of creators and users was literally being slapped by the behaviours and practices of the 'GDP'? The creators' space for peculiarity... [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President. In the field of copyright you were absent. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be honest. In fact, the "GDP" has collapsed or chose to collapse for many years long, long before SYRIZA came to power, to the government and this government simply comes to manage a specified fall, the one you could not manage. It is very hypocritical that you come today and abandon a government that has tried and tried to give solutions to a problem that you have not dared to touch. In conclusion, speaking a little about the 'DEPD', we should be aware that this is a unique hybrid at European, perhaps even global, level, with all the problems of abuse and illegality, which we all know and which has erupted all the previous governments and over time the two parties that have taken precedence over governance. My assessment is that the problem of "GDP" will be difficult to deal with, but the bill we have in our hands helps us find a fair solution for the creators and this solution is no longer another - and here I am tabling a personal view - than to make Greek creators alone responsible and managers of their own property. Because "GSP" does nothing but manage the intellectual property of Greek creators.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u399	That is what I think you should finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u400	Yes, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing with three findings. The bill we have in our hands has advantages. It is a bill that may show elementary weaknesses, but it is, as a rule, a serious bill, which gives solutions and responds to the field of Greek creators, in the field of copyright. It creates a normality in the field of copyright. It increases significantly - once we make use of it - the income of Greek creators and gives scope for improvement and control to fairer distribution. Finally, it adopts a system of greater transparency. Unfortunately, time is very little on such an important issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u401	Mr. Nikolaos Xydakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u402	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to make a few remarks in the short time available on this parliamentary procedure, which is a long debate, making a reference first in time, because tones from opposition have risen very much, and I would like to remind you of one, two dates. Law 2121 was passed in 1993. He was drafted by Professor Koumando, who, apart from a great legal person, was also a man and within the law managed to shield ATO in a dominant position, thinking almost exclusively of Europe as a whole. There is no place in Europe at the moment in this form, this autonomous entity of rights and management. I would remind you, therefore, that from 1993 to 2015, when in the first SYRIZA government, 24 February 2015, twenty days after the government became, we ordered management control at the "GDP", a permanent request by the authors, for whom they had also created a union "Metron" in 2012, we completed the adoption of a presidential decree that gave ratification power to the intellectual property organisation and that was delayed for many years. I would like to ask: all this criticism that the current government, which is coming to make the new regulation, is now under way, where was it? The concern, longing, knowledge and political will from 1993 to 2015 where was it? Nowhere. In his honor, Mr. Javaras, who has financed the Minister of Culture, said he spent a short time there...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u403	I'm nursed, but we didn't get money.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u404	So, not financed, he said, "I did not have time to do so, but I listened and I was faced with as an attorney of persecuted shopkeepers." So let's see what's going on from here. The past is not in favour of the old governments. It's blatantly against them. What we know from 1993 until today and which come to light with the audits of the sworn accountants and with the deep control carried out by the commissioner, who was reappointed by this government, is that the "GDP" has taken over the Greek creators, end up the Greek song and now we have a ruin in our hands. Because we are talking about controls, I would remind you again that we have another dark grey area in the Ministry of Culture, the Staff Solidarity Fund. On August 17, 2015, we ordered control of the General Accounting Office of the State. Since the beginning of 1916 there has been a comprehensive legal, administrative and economic study of what needs to be done. This is a potential scandal and I call on the Minister within a very short period of time, because all Members of the House are concerned, to give a definitive end. It is possible - I repeat - that in the case of the production of political money and, in any case, that trade unions should be allowed to receive such money. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, on copyright, you will give me two or three minutes, because it is very important. I call for your tolerance and judge what I am about to say if it is worth giving me two or three minutes more. We have heard the stakeholders, and I think it is the only way to legislate correctly, to listen to them, to social subjects, to people, to social classes, whose life depends on the laws we make in this Chamber. It's been twenty-four years to bring some changes to this law. It's probably another ten or twenty years. That is why we have a great responsibility, to be very careful, to be resilient to the law, to be operational and to resolve existing needs and to provide for the future. Beneficiaries of creators, entrepreneurs and end-users are not enemies, can be come to an understanding. We, as a state, need to prevent synagogueism and allow, encourage, compromises and functional tolerance and collecting communities and not guilds. The global landscape in communications and cultural works and in their way of implementation is changing so quickly that we do not have time to monitor it. Changes the conception of the work of art, the conception of what is intact and what a vile, we now legislate with a hot breath from the future that comes to us. However, what we legislate is what depends on the life and dignity of the creators of Greek culture, it is the law on which the course of artistic research, pioneering, authenticity and also on the quality of spiritual works in whole and the freedom of the citizen for choices of spiritual work depends. As far as the "GDP" is concerned, my assessment is that she is practically dead. This is the result of public information and of the information that Commissioner Vlacho has given yesterday in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media. We look forward with interest to the disclosure of Mrs Vlachos' findings, which she has delivered to the Minister, and we look forward with interest to the public prosecutor's moves, following the presentation of additional material by the Commissioner in his hands. Politically, a legislative corridor is required for the next day, given that the "GDP" is in a derelict state, that the conditions for the rescue and transfer of contracts and the "GDP" file to a new, healthy SGP, with criteria and decision to be taken by the political leadership, are created. We have an example. We have the best practices in Europe and the example of France and Austria. It has happened over the past few years in Europe. Let us study them and choose the best practices. Enlarge CSR supervisory boards to be better represented. To have a better care with great wisdom and great wisdom for the values of copyright from digital reproduction, to keep in mind that the practice of accessing and downloading, downloading, cultural material from the Internet is huge, one cannot regain it. Let us therefore find a way of providing a reasonable price for the author and let us also anticipate a path to merging the many collector bodies, which are confusing the market and users, both for the benefit of users and the creators.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u405	Mr. Xydakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u406	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u407	No, wait a minute, I already gave you three minutes that you asked for.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u408	It's for two articles now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u409	Yes, but please finish soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u410	In Article 55, the Minister will certainly know that yesterday the authors' and publishers' representatives and libraries agreed. Let us get this agreement to vote on it. Congratulations on the state premium for artworks, for exhibitions from state collections! Do not afflict the Greek State to pay extremely expensive premiums. We have been following European practice for many decades late. In Article 61, I await the Minister's explanation. It is important to preserve both the depôt legal and the Movie. It is not defined as cinema or culture or works of art from the current form of implementation. It is more than a CD or if it is in USB stick or if it is stored in Cloud. The works of culture, works of art must be under the care of the Ministry of Culture. I think that, in consultation with the Minister for Digital Policy, we need to find a way out. One last thing, maybe it was big. In Article 68, in other provisions, there is a change in the archaeological law, Law No. 3028. The following paragraph is added as follows and I read it out exactly: ‘No Ministerial decision is required in the event of a project being carried out in monuments, historic sites and archaeological sites in the framework of projects in which the Ministry of Culture participates as a Contracting Party’. I call for full clarification from the Minister, because, in my assessment of this small text added to the archaeological law, one of the heavy and serious laws of the Greek state, which interprets Article 24 of the Constitution for the Protection of the Environment, must not open any windows. In a programme contract concluded by the Ministry of Culture with a municipality, with a region, with a third body or with a legal person under private law in the implementation of the project - what project? the work of a preached cultural heritage - there should be a ministerial decision and, if necessary, the opinion of the Higher Scientific Councils available to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u411	Mr. Xydakis, please...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u412	Please, we're talking about the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u413	Will you please ask me again? I gave you twice as much time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u414	Please, because the Minister is a guardian of Article 24, this provision either withdraws and comes with serious debate, justifiable, or adequate explanations are given. As it is formulated, it paves the way for works to be carried out on cultural heritage, with no political responsibility and no scientific opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u415	Mrs Anna Karamanlis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u416	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Xydakis, you said that we heard the bodies, that there was a debate. You ask the Minister to withdraw it, the other to come back, the other to discuss it, the other to listen to it. No discussion has taken place. The bad bodies - poorly listened to them, three minutes each. Analyzing, saying what? Everyone complained there was no consultation. So what was it discussed? Absolutely nothing. I would like to dwell on the amendment tabled by the Deputy Minister of Sports, which exempts the Hellenic Football Federation from Law4326/2015 and provides for its operation on the basis of its statute. With this amendment, the third in turn, Mr Vassiliou's great preoccupation on the subject of the Hellenic Football Federation is complete. He had announced her, after all, and it was light - light from very early where to lead things. We have even asked him through our questions on several occasions to confirm it, but he has avoided it diligently. He obviously doesn't feel so proud of all that tactic he took. But I hope that, with the completion of the trilogy, this prank will be the last act and that the government will not continue to legislate on the ground for Greek football. We had told the House 15 days ago that the Minister of State is legislating on order and applying special purpose legislation. He has speeded up to justify us and confirm us. He talked again about returning to normality. It is his permanent inclination, obviously in his logic of "say, say something will remain". Because all his tactics only don't refer to normality. So, Mr Vassiliou, who is the body of regularity, would like to reply to us: How normal does he consider the fact that elections to be held and the election to be elected to football, that is to say, three amendments were needed, which effectively abolished the law adopted by his own government? How normal does it find a provision to be passed by the Greek Parliament on 26 June 2017 and before - well published in FEK, to bring a new amendment that annulls it? Fifteen days ago he brought us a provision, he said, 'except in the case of the conduct of antiquities'. The wording in the amendment today is 'including the conduct of antiquities'. How normal is it to legislate with a time horizon of a few days and a check of third parties? How normal is it to function permanently as the tail of developments? How normal is it that, after all, it will be legalising pre-determined general assemblies and electoral procedures? Such regularity can't stand it! Nor such inconsistency as the government shows can go unnoticed despite any communication storm. I ask you: was it not your party, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA and the ANELs, which considered the election process in the NAP to be of key importance for combating corruption? Did it not characterise increased representativeness as a one-way street to stop football being a felony of corruption and interlocutory? I would very much like to hear the SYRIZA colleagues who appeared to be in favour of the mere analogous to the federations - and of course none of them took the floor - to speak and table their opinion on the shrinking of the electorate that they are going to vote on today. They won't vote. They're avoiding. Because today's herring of the representativeness that you had made her flag, submit her and officially. The Undersecretary puts the tail on his legs and swallows the seventy-one electors, giving the charismatic shot and the law of his predecessor, who has made it a rag. It's not just his law, it's his argument. By defending the democratisation of the NDP, which would drive the gala away, he became a supporter of the football troika and was already proud to ask for it. It works as a monitoring tool for this troika and continuously draws up provisions to surround the developments of the ETUC by means of a legislative cloak. Mr Vassiliadis spoke about "new era" in Greek football. What does it mean by this new era, for which we had to rise out of pride? That we're being commissioned? Does it consider it healthy and honorable for our football, the fact that by a few days ago we did not know which teams would be fighting in the Super League, due to appeals of groups in the arbitration court? This optimism does not seem to be embraced either by the station that has the television rights of Lisbon, which is threatening to blow up the agreement in the air. Not to mention Football League and the continuing complaints of corruption. Speaking of television rights, is it the job of the Secretary of Sports to negotiate with Liga if ERT gets the television rights? Does he have any authority to haggle such things? At what price and on what terms? Is this part of the spirit of the new era too? Because it is more appropriate to the old-fashioned logic of 'on my actions, the issue has been settled'. Ladies and gentlemen, our unnegotiable position is that we cannot precede the amendment of the statute of federations and adapt to that law. The legal order dictates that the law should be preceded and that the statutes should be harmonized. The New Democracy, as we also pointed out during the debate on the recent sports bill, fully respects the self-interest of the OSH, and we hope that the hereditary administration to achieve its goals and take our football a step forward. We cannot, however, make the mistakes in the government's hypocritical attitude in another area and ignore the inconsistency of words and actions, nor can we, of course, welcome the unorthodox way it attempts to function in this area. That is why we are not voting in favour of this amendment, which is the mirror of the perception of sportsmen, and in perceptions and perspectives we will be firmly opposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u417	Mr President, may I have the floor, please, for some legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u418	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u419	I would like to put forward legislative improvements, which provide, firstly, for an internal counting and, secondly, for Article 55, for the removal of mobile smartphones for a reasonable fee, because there is an open court, due to the specific nature of these machines.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u420	Please testify to them to share with the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u421	Mrs. SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u422	Ladies and gentlemen, what we are seeing, as parliamentarians and Congressmen, for two and a half years that SYRIZA has been taking over the rule of the country with the ANELs, does not give us any impression nor, of course, make us fall out of the clouds. Impressively they are no longer causing to the Greek people, who is aware of the great famine that has been falling for decades in the country and at the expense of it, has put us at a critical moment through elections to the steering wheel of the country. Wherever you go back, wherever you look, there are chambers of lawlessness, chambers of lawlessness or even the limits of legal treasure, which, of course, have to be broken and revealed, are needed many years of good, lawful and strict compliance with the law of government of the country. We're at a time when the tops come down. The existing system so far pukes itself and his supporters, it pukes those who plucked it, resented it, excavated it. We have, as I said, a lot of work to do until we restore transparency, legitimacy, justice, good administration and democracy in that country. But this job doesn't scare us. On the contrary, it draws us together and moves us. It gives us spiritual, political, social food for the present and the future. We always have in mind the motto that brought to the rule of the country 'or now or never'. Nor do we get any adversities, from wherever they come, because fairness and truth always shine and win, and because law is not the law of the mighty, economic operators and cosa nostra of the chambers of lawlessness. I now come to this bill, so that the Greek people may also know one more child you were breast-feeding and nursed as long as it no longer goes, who was reared by the laws of lawlessness and who you were unable to or did not want to fight and put into order. I am clearly talking about 'EPC', another example of an anonymous company that never, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and PASOK, have you checked, yet another example of malfunctioning, another example of exploitation of lives and creators, a company which the current government had to come to, in order to order special management and bring to light the undifferentiated ones, to come to light, namely that while the company owes about EUR 40 million to the only beneficiaries, who are the creators, while owes money to the Greek State from VAT, other taxes and insurance contributions, at the same time the owner of the company received funds between EUR 515 000 and EUR 625,000 per year. Four other members of the board of directors, who belonged to his family, were collected respectively from EUR 44,000 to EUR 466,000, also annually. However, this information and much more that was provided by the management check did not easily come to light. The company, our favorite "GDP", full of grace and whim, refused to reveal anything. The investigation itself was imposed with the assistance of the prosecutor and after a fine had been sanctioned to the company because they just refused to give evidence. Some other samples of paradoxical lawlessness and pedals of mismanagement were interest-free loans, other benefits to members of the Board of Directors. the same family and the establishment of a whole network of subsidiaries belonging to the same persons, the same family, and traded exclusively with the ‘GDP’. Impression caused us, or rather did not cause us, when we found out about the property in Thessaloniki, which was purchased two, three years ago with "APAPI" money, which was what the users had paid, to go to the authors for their intellectual rights, but, randomly and uncheckedly, they became real estate in Thessaloniki. I am not going to go into any other elements which are disgraceful of any intelligent and legitimate citizen. I will just say, and I will highlight the fact that, while here, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy and of PASOK, you are sheding crocodile tears over the fact that it has delayed this bill, you have never more than forty years been daring on the phenomenon of culture and on the phenomenon of bad and illegal spiritual management, otherwise, rights to put your hand on the type of suns. The Greek people have judged you, the Greek people insist and support this government with stubborn stubbornness to take over the restoration of justice and bring light to all levels of chambers until now lawlessness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u423	Independent MEP Mr Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u424	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in two and a half years' time, three Ministers, dozens of legal advisers for a bill that does not substantially protect their intellectual works and creators. That's too bad! We heard all the bodies yesterday being positive to Mr Balta's bill. Only the EMPLOYE was then opposing, and now the whole of the creators is opposed. Listen to them. Madam Minister, listen to them. You're the same creator. The sinful "GEN" - we have heard a lot today about what the control found - from which the creators were seen. I hope and hope that all of us will find some sense of justice. But you are responsible for the rulers, you and the previous ones. The balance sheets have been known for years and, instead of improvisations, people have been asking for a solution. Allow the rights to be transferred to a new CSR so that the creators can be protected from now on until this case is cleared up. Because the ‘GDP’ is not only its shareholders. I was lucky, ladies and gentlemen, as well as thousands of our fellow citizens, to attend the Savvopoulou Dion concert yesterday. There we passed the entire history of the Greek song. I saw teenagers, middle-aged, older people moved, nostalgic, but also dream. It wasn't just a meeting of offering or culture. It was a meeting of his historic moments yesterday with today and tomorrow, and that is all culture can do. So I wonder, as a state, what we do for these people. How do we protect them? We're leaving them in their luck? So I ask you, Minister, why was Mr Balta's whole plan withdrawn? Why has there not been any consultation with the stakeholders before, as they themselves denounce? You decided to harmonise national legislation with Community Directive 26/14, without any real reason. Where did your democratic values go, the value of pluralism, the value of dialogue? Is the government afraid to discuss it? Now let's go a little bit over time on the specific issues of the bill. Firstly, Article 45 on negotiations with users. Change it. The simplicity here is worth it. To mediate experts and to make the agreement compulsory for everyone. To be offended for deceit or covetousness only. That way, the solution will be simple and it will work. You're the one who has the court's office to make the deal. With what expertise, I wonder. How can he do it? Secondly, with Article 51 of the bill, there is at least a suspicion that we are creating new GSPs. Instead of preventing the phenomenon, instead of preventing it for the benefit of the creators, we may go to new procedures that will create new 'GDPs'. At European level, there is nowhere provision for an ATO dominance, but the creators themselves exercise collective management. Thirdly, with regard to the provision of Article 55(3) and the next - which I am going to talk about paragraph 4 - you have threatened us with the legislative improvements, but we still have not seen them. That's unthinkable. We cannot go any closer to voting on the bill and not know what its final form will be. It has broken out for them, since educational institutions will be able to use extracts without authors' permission and without remuneration, a provision contrary to the Community directive, which leaves a window for exception, of course, but an exception. While here we have generalized a rule. International practice is the relevant exception to be accompanied by the obligation to pay non-university authors and publishers remuneration. Fourthly, by means of another anti-constitutional provision, Article 55(4) stipulates that there is a ban on the exploitation of work without pay, a basic human right. You say, in fact, in the draft law 'until the Presidential Decree is adopted'. Why? The agreement shall apply retroactively. Where there is a public disposal of their works, the Agreement shall apply from the outset. Fifthly, you withdrew in secret, others have told you that, Article 61, a rough article, of course, and you are taking the responsibilities back. What about this? In secret, will he retire? Mr Javarras and other colleagues have said so before. Ladies and gentlemen, what do I propose? First, to resolve the problem of the EIP with the opening of all of its data, client list and repertoire, and to make them available to everyone without restrictions. We will have the essential replacement of the EIP with genuinely competitive collective management organisations in their services. Secondly, to become truly independent of the Intellectual Property Organisation, to function as a Regulatory Authority and not to trample him in by not taking his advice on the bill as you were due. Thirdly, it should be regulated in accordance with the relevant Community directive and not by way of derogation the question of the use of projects and the restrictions on educational needs. Fourthly, to strengthen the Greek libraries substantially and to encourage the authors to expose their works there, with the benefit of them and the public reading. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing with this, Mr President. 'Psalm, education, freedom'. The slogan, of course, is old, but unfortunately still timely. Bread. Watch out, ladies and gentlemen of the government, with the success story you're talking about getting out on the market. You want to do what the Samara government did in '14, even with increased costs for citizens. If you do not do it properly, however, you will pay it by delaying the actual exit to the markets and you and the Greek people will pay for it. Education. It will be time to discuss the Gabroglou bill, which has already caused saliva in the educational community. Freedom. Freedom of creation, art, expression. Freedom that only progress and development toward every citizen can offer. Freedom that education and culture can support. Freedom that causes you seems to be allergy, because you have neither virtue nor daring, and that is now understood by the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u425	Mr Constantopoulos Dimitrios has the floor from the Democratic Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u426	Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law incorporates in the Greek legal system the collective management directive, which promotes transparency and accountability of collective management organisations. This draft is intended to address online piracy and intellectual property protection. Here is the question: Are these objectives achieved with these provisions? Because, at the hearing of the bodies, significant weaknesses were revealed in the bill, which caused particular reactions, such as the provisions on copyright protection. The bodies said that Mr Balta's original bill was in a positive direction. Let me remind you that it had gone through collective negotiation and public consultation, it had been signed by eight ministers, it had been passed by the Central Legislative Committee and of course we expected it to be tabled. But in one night, Mr Balta, he's retired. A lot of questions I would say, like: Why was he withdrawn? Who didn't like it? What purposes do the changes of the current bill, which are in a completely opposite direction and have changed the character of the Balta bill? One thing is certain, as the bill was finally tabled, it does not serve the rights of authors. Some people of course talked about photographic provisions in favour of the 'GSP'. But what do we talk about, Minister? The "GDP" with huge debts and obligations? This "GDP", which, in the consciousness of the creators, is discredited? For a new "LPD"? For a new independent management entity? But in what terms and what assurances? How will the protection of authors be guaranteed if it goes bankrupt? Ladies and gentlemen, the problems of the ENP are well known. However, it could be merciful. It could, I would say, change its status, because it is the only speculative collective management organisation in Europe, because there was an opportunity to acquire a modern institutional framework in collective management organisations given the changes that are being promoted at European level. This opportunity, however, is lost in this bill. Unfortunately, it is lost with it and the hope of inspiring new creators, feeling security for their rights. Many and tragic errors of the 'GDP'. But it is also wrong to deal with the government. When the financial irregularities were uncovered, we as a Democratic Incorporation had proposed a cross-party positioning of a state commission, with increased responsibilities. Unfortunately, we have not been heard. On the other hand, the government has brought an amendment, a specific system of co-administration in the EGF. He appointed a state commissioner without, of course, abolishing the board of directors. In other words, there was no political will for a definitive solution. This has led to the situation becoming uncontrolled. Ladies and gentlemen, we are concerned that the bill does not abolish the status of public limited companies to manage copyright. It is, on the contrary, strengthened, so that the creators of their fundamental rights are deprived. We are concerned that the right to remuneration for the past for the period 1993-93 is retroactively abolished. Like the fact that those who have produced primary material, such as writers or journalists, lack their reward for its use. No answer. Are these people going to be bio-pollutant? How are they protected from the extensive use of their works even digitally? This raises the most intense reaction, I would say, of the institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, our country had to take the lead in protecting intellectual property, exerting systematic pressure on the European Parliament and on the European Commission, especially on introducing competition into intellectual property, naturally through AEOs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are obliged to incorporate the directive. But what is the point of adding provisions that are not provided for in the directive and restricting the rights of authors? No answer here, Minister. We've been asking you in the morning to tell us about Article 61. We're waiting for your answer. We had the opportunity to establish a modern framework for collective management organisations with the aim of managing the copyright properly. We had the opportunity to acquire, I would say, a progressive framework of related rights, because, apart from the creators, we also have the heirs. Unfortunately, this bill seems to have lost the momentum government. To close, I would like to focus on a point in national book policy. We have an open book price in front of us. There is a big party with big discounts from the big bookshops, of course at the expense of the small ones. In Europe there is a single price. Only in thirteen countries are the book market free. We have a duty and an obligation to defend the book and small bookshops. We have a duty to support the weak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u427	Mr. Mitafidis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u428	Ladies and gentlemen, for the long immunity of the 'GDP', you must obviously not abandon the current government. She was the one who opened this abscess with which you co-existed for years. However, because I want to be constructive, I would like to agree with Mr Constantopoulos' final statement. We had tabled SYRIZA MPs in this connection with a timely question about finally establishing a single price in the book. Because copyright protection goes hand in hand - by ensuring, in particular, small bookshops, the possibility of surviving in this tough and competitive environment. Furthermore, Minister, I would like to remind you that there is another loose end, which I think there should be a constructive solution in the very near future. It concerns the honorary pensions of the authors and artists who have also suffered the scissors of the cuts, and unfortunately they are being asked to return and as if they were wrongly paid the money they had taken. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to speak on the occasion of what Mr Javarras said quite rightly, in my opinion - but above all from the tragic suicide of an unpaid person for fifteen months of working for sinful Karyupidis. Mr Javarras quite rightly said that court rulings should also be judged. It is an unprecedented class decision - with all the literality of the word - of the ice Arrow. While it has so far been a criminal offence, it feels that it is not a harmful change in working conditions or a failure to pay for it. I do not know if they have any remorse after this tragic suicide by the judges of the Ice Bay - let them solve this with their neighborhood confessor - but here we have the legitimacy of the most outraged injustice that can exist. I would like, on the occasion of the reference to George Koumando, who was administratively displaced in 1972 in Kerasochori of Evrytania and the Trichoda Thermos, to dedicate myself to the 'Knights' - how can I tell them otherwise? - of insurmountable neoliberalism, one of its last legacy. It is published in the newspaper “Kathemerini”. "I believe that nothing right can be done with the indiscriminate neoliberalism that it supports: let the society as a whole be damaged, as long as the economy moves forward." This is the reality, unfortunately, that we are living in this period. I would like to end up with two issues. One thing is that, at last, after a long time, we have restored an injustice and equal treatment between graduates of the artistic schools who possessed the same degree of study on the subject of knowledge, which, while they had been granted at the same time by the same educational body, were nevertheless the subject of a distinction in terms of the rights they had for their professional rehabilitation. The other thing I want to say, as the next Sunday, on July 23, is forty-three years since the collapse of the seven-year-old tyranny - there will also be a relevant event on the 24th of the month in the Refreshment of Thessaloniki - is that you proceed, Minister, as it is also a request from the Municipality of Thessaloniki and the resistance organizations, to the establishment of a monument, a museum and a archive of the anti-digit resistance. It is a debt to the martyristic and racing history of Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u429	Mr Nikolaos Friend from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u430	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill which is at some stage late - to accept it - with a number of changes in legislation - to accept it - but is facing after many years - something that the current government is not responsible for - a major problem, which concerns the area of culture and has to do with the 'ENPI' scandal and with the performance of the creators of responsibility being able to take advantage of their fighting, the money that comes from their work. We will see what the successor shape or successor shapes will be and how in this area possible forms of cooperative organisation will thrive and have a positive example, I hope, of cooperatives. But we're in hope. I would also like to stress that in the conditions of deep crisis that we are living in, especially in our own country, the issue of culture can prove to be a fetus for a new life, for a new social reality in our country. However, it will prove embryonic by organising this new social reality on the basis of the principles of public interest and public interest. I believe that the Minister may allow me to say that two provisions of Article 61, which have been withdrawn, namely that Article 61 has been withdrawn and that we have here Article 67, do not serve these principles of public and public interest. With regard to Article 61, which has existed and must be restored, the fact that this article is withdrawn is leading to the degradation of two major political actors in the country, which is the Film and the National Library. I believe that a serious debate is needed both in the government and in the House and in the other institutions on the issue of our digital policy. Not plundering, in the name of the new, digital policy, but order and respect for a reality that has to do with the archiving of books, rights, films and so on. Secondly, Article 67 is an article which insults the basic principles of the law on protection of archaeological sites and I believe that it should be withdrawn, because otherwise we are being exposed. Wanting and not being exposed to serving small and medium-sized interests privately in our country. What else does it mean that without a ministerial decision, there can be useless of the various archaeological sites? I am putting the "validation" on many introductory farms, that is. Please, Minister, I am aware of your sensitivity to these issues, not to insist on this wording, which is also irrelevant to the main part of the bill and to listen to us - many colleagues, and to dialogue with the Archaeological Service. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I could also refer to other issues, but I prefer to refer to a major political issue. I'm not overdoing it. It's the issue of good legislation. I am not happy - and not just myself, but many colleagues here - about the way in which a process continues, which refers to legislation - in introductory terms - 'extended need'. I do not understand why today's bill comes under the urgency procedure. What for? I believe that it is a bad practice, which comes from the harsh remembrance of reality or even from the fact that as a new government we have to make rapid decisions on certain issues. But here - and I will stress this - the government, which has admitted it over the past few months, must take decisions. We can't bypass the principles of good legislature. Finally, I would like to refer to an amendment that we tabled on artistic education together with Mr Baltas and other colleagues. We believe that it was rightly accepted by the Minister that it is the lasson, in order to give justice to a number of senior artistic schools, who, unlike other classmates, who have received a degree and who at the same time have no professional rights. But that's the lasson. The major thing is that we must in any case discuss with modern and democratic terms the reorganisation and upgrading of artistic education. I believe that is one of the issues that both the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Education should soon see and present a plan here for discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, we support the bill because it is taking steps, and here we are to correct it, if we see that some issues need to be corrected. But I stress that Article 67 creates serious political reservations and must be withdrawn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u431	Mr. Constantine Dousina has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u432	Thank you, Mr President. I should like to address the very few Members who are here on the pretexts of intellectual property law, what we have not heard today in this great debate we have had. Intellectual property is a complex term of property and intellectual property. Like all forms of property, intellectual property creates a set of rights. In other words, it is not a relationship between an subject and an object, but it creates a set of rights between beneficiaries and third parties, particularly in this case users and creates these rights in order to motivate the creators to advance their work of speech, art and science. But because it is intellectual property, there is a special relationship between these rights, the set of rights given to creators. That is, beyond the property right, an effort is made to serve the public good of creation, distribution and enjoyment of works of speech, art and science. We therefore have, beyond the property right, the rights package and the principle of freedom of expression, speech and information, information, which exists in this package. On the one hand, we have freedom of expression for authors. In other words, the law recognises the difference between intellectual property and general property. This seems clear, for the law of intellectual property creates an inalienable moral right to creators. At the same time, it also sets a time limit, after which property disappears, because it remains the works in the common use. But when the relationship is limited, as was the most discussed here today, between creators and direct users, we forget that there is a third factor, which is probably the most important one, and that is all of us, all the citizens who have the right to enjoy the works, the word, the art and the science. The law, copyright, let's say, copyright recognizes this, creating the principle of fair use, the fair use, which allows third parties to use the creations and works of some writers or others, just so that they can participate in this great cultural dialogue, which is done through the spiritual life of the space. Today, then, critical legal scientific research is facing intellectual property, as a social relationship aimed at expanding citizens' access to cultural and science products. So digital society and the knowledge economy are moving towards the principle of openness - openness is this - and with the logic of open access and the logic of open source in relation to software. And that is what happens and will increase this trend, because, on the one hand, we have the right of artists and authors to be able to create exactly, but on the other, and the right of all of us to the products of speech and art. It is, that is, the word and art of an end in itself, beyond the specific rights and interests they protect. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me one more minute, Mr President. All this applies to the area in which I belong - and with which I wish to end by making a few references, because they have heard so much - that is the area of creation, the writing of scientific works, sport and books, which are then used by universities and libraries and school libraries, whether in the form of lending or in the form of distribution of extracts from our works. I have heard from various colleagues in the Opposition that we have so far received a lot of money because they were using our work to distribute it for educational, teaching and examination purposes, universities and libraries. That, of course, wasn't true. The previous law created, in line with the European directive, the right of universities, libraries - and public and teachers - to use project extracts, without the author's permission and remuneration.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u433	Here comes the meaning of the extract.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u434	You're right, but that's going to get into a legal interpretation. Now we're not getting into this. We heard about the authors' letter. Today I have received a letter - which I shall submit - from hundreds of university colleagues, from which I read only two small passages: 'We think knowledge and education are common goods and as such they should be shielded by institutions. We consider the arrangements of the law - paragraphs 3 and 4, that is to say, Article 55 - 'in the context of the exceptions provided by the legislator fully acceptable'. It calls on the Government of the University Group to initiate a special legislative study procedure, maximising the exceptions to intellectual property rights for the purposes of research and teaching. We had Mr. Chacona, Mr. Chiboglou from the National Library, from the educational libraries, who said that the provisions of Article 55 are rational, balanced and progressive.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u435	Mr. Dousina, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u436	I shall conclude, Mr President. An effort was made yesterday - and I hope it will be successful - by authors, who are mainly non-university authors and libraries. I hope, therefore, that paragraphs 3 and 4 as they stand and that a terminal time, a sunset close, as it is called, will probably have to come in which this agreement will have to be found and then this will have to come with an amendment. Finally, I would like to say that I, too, fully agree that the withdrawal of the right of depot legal from the Greek Film Archive is extremely problematic and must be done. It is a huge legacy, a huge tank of Greek film material and must continue to live like this. But let me say - and I am ending this - that this bill is absolutely related to the bill on education that comes. We are starting to try, to move to a knowledge-based economy and without the provisions of Article 55, that will not be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u437	Mrs. Baja Anna has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u438	Thank you, Mr President. I tell you from the outset that I will need a little more time, because I shall refer to the subject of the amendment setting up the Agricultural Movement, which we have tabled and which has been accepted. I know you will also be pleased about this matter as the Thessalonians. So I'm gonna need some more time. I am sorry to disappoint my colleague - he has already left the Chamber - that I do not have the tape recorder with me. I don't know what hurt him, what bothered him that in a previous speech here I had brought a tape recorder. What am I supposed to do? I have this tape recorder, that's where I hear music, my dear colleague. I do not have expensive stereo machines 'SIEMENS'. Besides, that's our difference with some others. That's all about the cassette. The amendment tabled by a general number 1096 and a special number 29 on the establishment of a special 'Killer' Farm Movement, which has now come to plenary, makes me very happy. It was an attempt, which began almost as soon as we were elected and became a MP. This dream matched me with the dream of the people of Killere the mayor and the others there, so we all tried this story together. That is why I thank you very much for being accepted. "Killer" is a story of the global agricultural movement - you know it, of course - not just for Greece. It is the first rural movement in the world and as such must take its value. Of course, he does, but in my opinion he should have entered school manuals as a lesson in history. I dream, going up to Larissa to my home country, on the highway when we get there at the point of Killere, where there is the sign for the village of Killerk, and the sign "Agricultural Movement Museum". This museum, I do not imagine as a dead shell of some of the objects that concern farmers but as a living interactive institution, where young people and children will learn in a live educational way the history and struggles of their ancestors. Because only if they learn that story, they will love their land again. I am pleased that the Government gives us the light of young farmers and their new forms of development and support, as the Prime Minister from Kosani said yesterday. Only then will we become a healthy economy if young people return to their lands. I call on everyone - and above all, of course, our Government - to help in this effort, to help young people in rural areas become farmers again. I hope and hope that this museum, without it being a dead shell, as I said, will quickly become and be another reason to help in this effort. I would like to present to the Minutes all the series of actions taken by the Municipality of Killere, because it is important. It provided a unanimous decision of the municipal council that area near the monument, where the new museum will be held. [[At this point, honourable Member Anna Vaguea submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I now come to the bill that is being passed today. As for most of the Antipolitics in all its criticism, she really does not understand what she says and, of course, no reasonable person can watch them. Why are they accusing us? Why have we brought to light a huge scandal, which was known for many years now, and which those who blame us and who have been ruling for so many years have never touched? We lead this scandal to justice. But the contradiction continues. They're blaming us because the bill's late. Now that he's here, because he came in as an emergency, and suddenly everyone loved Mr. Baltas and his bill! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like some more time. Ladies and gentlemen, all these years have been deaf ears but at the same time the blackmailer - so as not to use any worse characterisation - makers, composers, stylists, whenever one of them has been in need of health or anything else. He was obliged to take all the money the "GDP" gave him, saying and thank you. I am able to know these firsthand, because my partner, Lucian Celadon, was collecting his intellectual rights through the "GDP", all these forty years that we have been together. Ladies and gentlemen, if you listened carefully to the bodies that spoke yesterday and did not have your speeches ready, in which all you are interested is to find at all costs arguments against the government, you would find that the three unions that represent creators disagree with each other or at least do not fit in with the 'COMPI' issue. The spokesman of one of these unions, the SMU, clearly said in his intervention that the "GSP" must be saved and cleaned up, because a multitude of artists ensure a living through the percentages collected from it. So our Government and, in particular, the Minister in particular, had to find a solution for a smooth transition from the total immunity of the companies to the control of the collectors by involving their representatives in the administrative bodies. After all, no one obliges the authors to collect them through the EPP. There are already, and there will be self-managed bodies. Here I also reply to my colleague from the Communist Party that in fact over the years you could have inflamed the artists, the authors, the cooperatives, you are a party that is being cut for it. Why don't they follow? No one's blocking them. There are other unions. Why don't you convince them to go to the other unions the self-managed? It's the free choice of each creator, which union he's going to. No one obliges him to go to the "GDP". So those who choose "GDP", choose it, because that's where they get their money. The issue of copyright is huge and many times for us nightmareists. Trust me. We feel defenseless and powerless, in front of the courage and the ignorance of all those who exploit us and our work. I'll bring you a personal example again. At the moment, there are two legal cases pending before my family, on intellectual property issues, the copyright of Lucian Kilaidonis for a television station and for a newspaper which has misused its work without taking our leave. They go away to justice, and I don't know how long they'll be gone.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u439	Ms. Wagon, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u440	Mr President, I need some time, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u441	How much?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u442	I haven't spoken in a long time. Let me say two things. I think it's important. So this bill is necessary to get a class into the scenery. I'll get you an example. There is the article, which deals with the fair remuneration of 1% on the material. The draft law amends and restores this percentage to 1% in Article 55(2) of the draft law. As I mentioned in the committee, this rate of fair remuneration has a wavery history, so that I do not use a more acute finding. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to remind you that in its original form, the intellectual property framework law, Article 18(3), established the 2% value of computer as a budget line for the benefit of authors. Then the then government of Costas Simitis, on the Evangelos Venizelos Minister, removed this provision by Article 14(1) of Law 3049/2002 of a bill - 'Wharf' of the Ministry of Finance, which in its fourteenth article in the chapter 'Other Provisions' - and accuses us of various other provisions - abolished on one night the 2% on this material. The justification in the explanatory statement to that law was that this fair remuneration was not provided for by any Community directive and international conventions on intellectual property. So it had to be abolished. But let's explain it. The then Minister of Culture in an unrelated bill of militarisation decided that the principle of maximum protectionist effect prevailing in the law of intellectual property worldwide has no effect and no effect. It is counterproductive and an impediment to unaccompanied competition - I say - and I am therefore abolished, Mr Minister. It does not give rise to the impression that at that time a sense of intellectual creators had been created and it was considered that the Sinetti Government - and especially the Minister of Culture - had given in to the claims of the multinationals to harm the protection of intellectual property by a legal and political waste. For the Minutes, I will table the original form of the arrangement and the form taken by Mr Venizelos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u443	Mrs. Bajas, you've reached twelve minutes, actually in four and a half minutes. Please complete. How much tolerance should we give? I think it was time enough to develop what you wanted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u444	I think it was very interesting anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u445	Members will blame us for taking part in the Thessalonians! And fair!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u446	Let's get a little involved. It's okay. I haven't spoken in a long time, and I don't know when I'm gonna talk again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u447	Okay, but that doesn't go cumulatively, 'I didn't talk before, I need to speak now'. Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u448	I shall conclude, Mr President. The issue of copyright is huge. So we're trying to get some kind of order into this bill. I've heard a number of strange accusations. I want to tell you that the Minister of Culture has known her for years as an actor. I can't imagine having a transaction in the back of her mind. None of us. I declare it. We're all away from such a political spirit. Away from us, this practice. Don't judge the odds, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population. The Minister is very new in this position and I see that she is trying in a practical spirit to solve some problems. For example, for the first time after many years on its own initiative, the theatres, the new creators of some money are given to make independent productions. I have not seen any media media point this out and show it out. Let us help in this effort for culture and for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u449	Mr Kefaloyannis Ioannis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u450	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not in any mood to begin with, but I think we are wrongly accusing the Minister and, by extension, the Government of the urgency procedure with which he chose to discuss the copyright bill in Parliament. I think the Minister is right. It was a great and intense consultation on copyright in our country. Was there not really a very extensive and intense discussion at least in 2010, when the economic crisis began to touch the art scene, when most people began to realize that, for example in the field of music, the record tends to end, or when the creators realized that few more have the opportunity to have concerts? Has there not been a long and intense debate, at least since it has been well known that tens of thousands of shopkeepers, broadcasters, hoteliers, shopkeepers, who have for years felt the barbaricity of the methods and practices used by the ‘GDP’, suddenly realised that the money they have paid, in fact, did not go to the creators but to a company or - to say it better - to a family that has been exploiting their hard work? Wasn't there, in fact, a lot of consultation, when the criminal mismanagement of the “ESC” was uncovered, which only for 2016 received EUR 22 million, without paying 1 euro to the creators? Haven't dozens of letters been published in the last year for the Ministry's misuse practices? Have no new associations been created to defend copyright? Haven't a series of events and public debates been organised? In the end, the Prime Minister was not involved in this matter? So, Minister, you are being blamed for the urgency procedure that you have followed. Normally with so much consultation, perhaps the two days that the bill is being discussed in this House were too long. Unfortunately, however, you have considered very little from the above-mentioned reality with this legislative initiative. So you have not taken into account the concerns expressed all this time in the informal, in essence, consultation which has taken place and, unfortunately, I think, with the legislative initiative, the Ministry has put a hole in the water. You know, there is no bigger example than today that only fifteen MPs from the Coalition, SYRIZA and Independent Greeks, defied the heat and found themselves in this Chamber to support the government's bill. Only 10% of Members who support the government have today taken the floor to support your bill. The remaining 90% either considered it a bad bill or possibly had something better to do. Obviously you will vote for the bill, because the rapporteurs will vote for it, but from there only 15 - I have the list, you can see it, too - have taken the floor today to support your bill. Does it need more proof of what the Ministry has done with regard to the legislative initiative? You have had a great opportunity to put on a new and solid basis both the relationship between authors and the institutional mechanisms for managing copyright and relations between authors and users. Let's go to the first one. We are the only country in Europe, where the national collector in the music field is a speculative independent management entity, as it is called, instead of a non-profit collective management organisation. This situation is, of course, broadly professed - and of course also of the artistic world - the main reason, which enables the owners to speculate at the expense of the authors and you know why. Because it is very simple to create a conflict of tasks and interests. The EPA is of interest, of course, to be as large as possible, while, on the contrary, the creators have an interest in being as small as possible. In addition, the private and speculative nature of the EPA combined, of course, with the monopoly position it enjoys on the market, enables it to impose on authors and users abusive terms and practices. I think we all know. You had a great opportunity, Minister, to fix it and, unfortunately, you did not. And you do not, because you have adopted the logic, its 'different and reigning' policy - we have seen the institutional representatives what they said to you in committee - and a logic which, of course, the 'ESDP' does - that if you do not, I will close. This is where I'm going to give a parentheses. It is certain that the political system, obviously, over time, has enormous responsibilities for the situation that has been created. One cannot say otherwise. Unfortunately, however, the artistic world, which recently did not appear united in promoting the demand for the conversion of the "GDP" into a non-profit organisation, also has its responsibilities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need a minute, Mr President. This division has unfortunately been exploited both by the GDP and by the government, of course, which is coming out today and is claiming that it is allegedly in this way that it is legislating in favour of the interests of the authors. We are just coming up with a nightmare scenario, according to which it is likely to close the 'GDP'. It's a nightmare not for shareholders but for creators. The question is. Is the ‘ESDP’ at risk of being closed? Of course he's in danger. No, of course, by the law that would put the area of copyright first, but by the same owners of the "GDP" i.e. its owners. The reason is, quite simply, that it is no longer sustainable. With the data of its published balance sheets, it appears that the ‘LPI’ currently owes EUR 42,666,000 to beneficiaries. If some of them claim their rights and move legally, I fear that there will be no financial liquidity to meet these obligations. The only way, in theory, a limited company to be rescued is to increase its share capital. However, this is obviously not possible either because some do not want to do it or because they cannot, perhaps even if they want to do so, or if they want to do so, it will prove the "before" of this money. Therefore, instead of the Ministry of which you are leading and which is called upon to supervise, seek and directly demand this money, not only does it but, unfortunately, it seems to give the "GDP", a law that is in its measures. But let's get past this. Is there any provision, in any case, as to what will happen if the EIP closes in relation to the future of contracts and authors and their transfer to a new collective management organisation? Unfortunately, the answer is, no. So the creators, at the moment, are completely exposed, in case the company goes bankrupt. We are going - and I conclude with this - to relations between collective management organisations and users. Let's get something straight. Users are not enemies of creators. They're somehow clients of their services. However, as users must be consistent with the obligations of creators, so the creators and organisations they represent must be clear to users. But what needs to be done first and foremost is that they be able to deal with each other and if they do not, of course, have the justice, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u451	Mr. Kefaliannis, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u452	I shall conclude with a phrase. I therefore consider it a mistake that you abolished the original provision, which made it compulsory for collective bargaining of organisations and users by means of a reasonable procedure, which provided for an improper committee of prestige for mediation in the event of non-agreement before they were brought to the courts. In this way, we believe that the rights of authors are not served even how much the rights of users are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u453	Mr Georgios Stylos has the floor from New Democracy and there are two, three, if necessary, speakers. Then there will be a syllabus between the rapporteurs and the speakers - whoever wants - and the Minister will be closed down. Here, Mr. Style, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u454	Thank you, Mr President. I will only speak of the amendment, which concerns the Greek Football Federation, the amendment tabled by the Deputy Minister of Sports. I have a brief story to tell, so that those who are listening to us at the moment, but above all, to understand what is happening and what we are voting on with this amendment. In 2015, we had a new government, which announced that the constitutional legislator, the legislator of our country, is above all the associations private, federations either of the country or anything else. It said, therefore, that the laws of the State are above the statutes of the UEFA, FIFA and all other football federations. Therefore, in 2015 by the then governmental majority, Article 15 of Law4326/2015 is voted. We as New Democracy said that in this article, the government must see these issues very carefully and is obliged to maintain certain relations, certain cooperation, some consultation with the international federations. Surely, however, it is obliged to the Greek citizens, to do the best for the credibility of Greek football and the best for transparency of Greek sport and specifically Greek football. So, ladies and gentlemen, what applies to all the other sports federations in the country does not apply to the football federation. Then the government comes and re-amends this article that it had then voted on Article 15 of Law No.4326/2015. And what do we have since 2015 and then? We have the decision of UEFA to set a new administration in the Greek Football Federation, so that elections can take place and the various things that were said, written and watched by the fans in our country, but also by the people of sport, do not apply anymore, to "cleaned" so that we can talk about a serious, reliable championship and a serious sport such as football. In order to legalise these procedures, therefore, since the Government has circumvented its own announcements of football, it should then become a general meeting, which could not, however, be done with the provisions it had adopted in 2015 and the general assembly should proceed to electoral proceedings. So the government came 15 days ago, voting for Law 4479/2017 with one provision. I read the provision: "For the convening, formation and operation of the general meeting of the Hellenic Football Federation, ETF, except in the case of the conduct of antiquities, the provisions of its statute shall apply exceptionally." This actually means giving full autonomy to the NDP, which he declared would never do. When did this happen? It took place 15 days ago, on 29 June 2017. I am aware that on 30 June 2017, the Interim Management Committee, appointed by UEFA in agreement with the Government, had a general meeting. This provision, therefore, was passed in order to legalise the general assembly, today the electorate is called upon to vote: "For the convening, creation and operation of the general meeting of the Hellenic Football Federation, including..." - I say it again, "including" - "... the exercise of antiquities applies exceptionally to the provisions of its statute". So what changed these fifteen days from 29 June to today? He changed the following: you voted, you voted, and you voted in favour of what you said "other than antiquities", now after 15 days the Greek Parliament will come to vote and say "including antiquities". These things are unheard of. It will be recorded internationally in bibliography, to those studying political parties, to those studying antiquities and strategies, what we experience with the SYRIZA - ANEL government as a whole. What do you think? In ten days you say 'I am voting - I am voting', 'except - including'. You say "We will tear out the memorials - we vote for two memoranda", "We are against austerity - EUR 14.5 billion", "We will abolish the Amygdaleza, bring the immigrants and open up the Amygdaleza", "We will vote against the forest maps - we are voting again on forest maps". These things are unheard of. I'll tell you this: The football world, the simple fan, is a resurrection with the drawbacks, with the front - back. You have no right, gentlemen of the government, to shoot football. We call on you to have a transparent, clean, reliable championship, and you have an obligation, with the control mechanisms, to keep it, to preserve it and to institutionalise it. You do exactly the opposite. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u455	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u456	Mr President, can the Minister please explain something to us? I have here the legislative improvements, from which it does not appear that Article 61 has been removed from the bill. I am referring to the article on audiovisual media for film works. I want to know whether or not it remains in the body of the bill. As far as Article 68 is concerned, as was submitted to us this morning in the bill, I think that you have now renumbered it into Article 67, because you have deleted Article 45. It concerns this scandalous issue that no ministerial decision is required where there are programme contracts involving the Ministry of Culture and Sport as a contracting party. We would like a clarification from the Minister, because we are reaching the end of the list of speakers. As far as we have seen, there has also been a reaction from the Plenary Assembly to these articles and we would like to know, so that we can put ourselves at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u457	That's right. Madam Minister, would you like to give an initial answer, a clarification of what Mrs Kefaliannis said, so that we can continue?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u458	Mr President, Rule 61 has been removed and I shall give the reasons for that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u459	How has it been removed? How has it been removed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u460	It has been removed without removing it from the legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u461	I don't have a bill in front of me, either.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u462	Madam Minister, the articles are not removed because you decide, without having them in the legislative process, which have been distributed to Members. I just want to explain that we intend to apply for a roll-call vote. We therefore want to know whether we are going to prepare a roll-call request, for something that exists or that is not in the bill. Is he staying in the bill or not staying? So, the Minister has to give us an answer soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u463	Look, the'short' is, until at least the time when the speakers and rapporteurs are going to finish the secondary cycle.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u464	Mr President, may I speak on a point of order?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u465	Here, Mr. Javarra, you have the floor for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u466	Thank you. I believe that the Minister is obviously aware that once a bill is tabled and is made up of specific articles which have a specific number and from this bill to the end of the process of processing it by the parliamentary committee, it has so far not been stated that Article 61 is withdrawn, this article until now is considered to exist. Just someone has removed it, without a legitimate reason, which is based on the Rules of Procedure. So at this stage there can be no Article 61. I, personally, ask the Minister to say that by mistake this article has been removed, incorporated into Article 61A at last and to end nicely and nicely, because otherwise there are very big and serious issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u467	Good, Mr. Javarra. Madam Minister, would you like to take the floor or at the end?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u468	Mr President, you will allow me to speak at the end, to be more prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u469	Good. Mrs Katsavria - Siropoulou from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u470	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on copyright is revealing, as two contrasting concepts conflict. Despite the ambitious efforts of the Opposition, the New Democracy and the PASOK, to dress with intelligence, their position is clear. They want to degrade the hardship of the spiritual creator and artist and alienate it from the control of his work. It is a position which they have served faithfully and consistently and have done politically for decades. The result of this policy has been on the surface since 2011 with the colossal scandal of GDPI. The other speakers, ladies and gentlemen, attempted to mitigate every effort by the government in the field of culture and they found no single word to say about Law 2121/1993, which legitimized the tradition of "GDP" to the known family, as well as the giantization of the exploitation of the creators. You see, for my fellow Members and their parties, this has been a good and clever legislative practice. Nor did they find a single word about their government's inactivity in hearing complaints about “GDP” from 2011 to 2015. They did not, however, find a single word about the vote by their parties, the amendment that the Commissioner of the "GSPI" was put in after the administrative control ordered by the then Minister of Culture, Mr. Xydakis, in August 2015. In other words, New Democracy and PASOK are interested in transparency, control and accountability and are curiously cut for the relationship between SYRIZA and the creators! Of course not only are they not interested in this relationship, but they are instead seeking to undermine it by invoking procedural objections, by tricks and by continually distorting events. But the world of art, spirit and culture is well aware of the past and who have for many decades made the blind eyes to the usurpation of their work. I am convinced that they recognise the current government's efforts to find a fair solution and to bring order and respect to the area of their rights and to extend the right of all citizens. have access to the works of speech, science and art. After all, we are united by the common concept of cultural good, for cultural creation. It is that perception that refuses to trade the work and sometimes its own creator who resists the alienation of spiritual or artistic work by his producer. Its technology and speed, in addition, is integrated into the market for cultural goods and coexist with those social forces, which are either resisting trade and exploitation or which seek to completely abolish it. However, we are living in a reality which we must take seriously. Because, indeed, the author and his work are at the heart of our policy, we harmonise the Community directive with the regulations we introduce on copyright and related rights. The substance of the arrangements is, on the one hand, in the ability of the authors themselves, to effectively control the collective management organisations to which they participate and, on the other, to limit the administrative costs of these bodies to 20% of their revenue. The debate which preceded it was fruitful and essential in every case. Despite the tight procedure for the adoption of this draft law, all stakeholders of the spirit and art had the opportunity to express their views and proposals. The leadership of the Ministry of Culture has made every effort to bring together both the views and the interests that have sometimes been involved in the field of culture. I believe that this is the best possible basis on which the copyright and related rights of authors can be founded from now on. Because it is true that these rights must finance spiritual creation, provide the creator with the necessary economic benefits, allow him to live from his work and continue to create. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u471	Thank you, too, for the consistency of time. Here is the last speaker on the list, Mrs Efstathia Georgopoulos - Saltaris from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u472	Thank you, Mr President. We are finally in place today - for the pleasure of many, above all, for the creators and users, and unpleasant for others, namely, who thought they had special privileges - to discuss a bill that puts an end to immunity and chaos, which prevailed in the field of copyright and related rights. I think that at the beginning of the debate we need to make two clarifications, in order to get away from the deliberate misinformation of the days. The draft law is not concerned with ‘COMPI’ and the scandal surrounding this company nor is it a mere transposition into national law of Directive 2014/26/EU on collective management of intellectual property rights and related rights, or at least it is not only about it. It is mainly and above all about modernising the institutional framework, after Law 2121/1993, along with the taking of brave initiatives on the part of the State, in order to adequately protect the rights of authors against third parties and the ability of users to enjoy the goods of artistic creation in an uninterrupted manner. So the state comes to create the institutional framework, which will protect the relationship of the creator with his creation and the relationship of the creation with the final recipient that is the public. To have a size class for the Greek market and collective management organisations, I say that today on the Greek market, according to official figures, seventeen small organisations are active, namely entities employing under fifty workers and having a turnover of about 9 million and only one middle. The historical experience has shown us that in this relatively small market a number of malfunctions and complaints about financial scandals, mismanagement, abuse of copyright and users have been identified. These are stories which approach the limits of absolute irrationality. Did we really see that? Did we only read the complaints in paper and electronic form, or should political change finally come, so that a painful attempt could be made to put a barrier to the immunity of these interests? The question, therefore, of political will is of fundamental importance in this particular case and highlights the maximum responsibilities of the supporters of extreme neoliberalism, who are associated with the interests of the space, have done that they have not heard and seen anything. So let them stop being the teacher of the parties who have been in power so far and swing the finger for supposed purposes when they did not intervene to correct the bad texts in previous years. We're not going to stick to parentology. Where there are responsibilities, they must be judged by justice. It is important that all those who show sensitivity and anxiety in the areas of culture, bend and contribute to their proposals. If improvements need to be made, be sure that we have the courage and wisdom to correct in the course what is needed. For us, the issue of copyright is not just regulation that will normalise the market failures. For us it is much more complex and multidimensional social, economic and cultural. This draft law very clearly illustrates the main axes of our own political perception, contrary to what we have known so far. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. It safeguards the right of all citizens to have broad access to artistic creation. The authors are given the opportunity to make use of their work for work or business, without undermining the irrational and economically irresponsible limitations of the previous situation. It allows - most basic - the creators to live from their work and their creation. It shall strengthen the control of the beneficiaries of their rights. Without mentioning in detail the time economy, and why other colleagues spoke in detail about issues such as ensuring transparency and accountability, improving the supervisory mechanisms by the State, establishing the special procedure to determine the remuneration of health stores, but I must point out that for the first time a regulation is introduced to reorganise collective management organisations in the event of failure to fulfil financial obligations. Copyright and related rights protection mechanisms are strengthened if they are insulted by internet use and is one of the major invitations of our time, as the increasing use of file exchange through technology has radically changed the old conception and practice of private use of works. Today, then, it is time to draw up a new path to protecting and extending the rights of authors and users by voting in favour of the draft law. Today, then, the time has come for another important problem to be solved at last and to give the dog to the next one. I would like to say a few words about the amendment with a general number of 1097 and a specialist of 30. With this amendment, we are correcting an injustice of years, which is suffered by the workers, without an indefinite period of scientific expertise, at the National Gallery - Alexandros Sutsos Museum. In particular, the amendment concerns the granting of a two-month education leave per year for specialties such as PICs of Historical Art, Conservatives of Antiquities, Painters, Chemicals, Chemicals, Chemical Engineers and Archaeon. They are under ten people, workers in the National Gallery, and, as it is clear, this amendment does not bring about any spending in the state budget. Finally, I would like to welcome the establishment of the Visual Arts Award "Yiannis Moralis" in the memory of the great artist and teacher to a living creator every year. In other words, it will be provided for its work and for the framework that comes within the Ministry for the conditions of participation of our country in the Venice International Fair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u473	Thank you, too. Mrs Georgopoulos - Saltari was the last speaker on the list. The Minister has asked for the floor to make an intervention. Will you do all, Minister, or will you just make some clarification? Then we'll go to the syllabus of the speaker rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u474	Mr President, Rule 61 has been withdrawn from the first meeting of the committees with the signature of the director of the committees since 11 July. And I'm tabling it for the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u475	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u476	Since July 11th.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u477	There's in the bill they gave us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u478	We've testified it anyway.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u479	The bill's inside.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u480	There's in...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u481	Wait a minute. Madam Minister, do you have anything more to add?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u482	Justification is that it was withdrawn, because there was a question of the co-responsibility of the two Ministries, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Digital Policy, and two co-responsible bodies, and so we chose to hold a dialogue in detail for optimal legislation. That's why he withdrew.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u483	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u484	Here, Mr. Javarra, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u485	Mr President, this article 61 has been tabled by the bill in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media. Obviously, if there is a document from the Secretariat of the Government, this document has not been drawn up in the way it is imposed by the Rules of Procedure. That is to say, until the end of the debate in the Committee on Morphics, there has been an oral statement, and I would point out that, because we have just given us another document with various legislative improvements. I repeat, if the Minister knows that in the parliamentary procedure, the principle of orality applies. The debates are oral and only what is called oral, they are recorded in the Minutes and, after that procedure, only then can we talk about withdrawal of a provision. It follows from the report prepared by the competent institution of Parliament that this article, without having been given an oral statement during the debate in the committee, has been withdrawn. For us, therefore, it has never been withdrawn and for this reason we shall also put a roll-call vote on Article 61, as was included in the bill, which was tabled and worked out by the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u486	To understand, the request for a roll call will concern another article.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u487	Of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u488	Yeah, you don't say it all, so we know the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u489	Mr President, will the Minister make further changes? If the Minister doesn't tell us, if he'll eventually withdraw any more articles, we'll be placed in our dentistry and then he'll change...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u490	Good to get this over with, tell us very clearly which articles you have withdrawn or are about to withdraw or if you intend to do any other legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u491	Apart from Article 61, Article 45 is removed because, in general terms, it adds another procedure to the existing negotiations between collective management organisations and users, as is in Article 22 and 23. We think it is better to let the parties find a way to negotiate than to do so in a manner determined by the State. It is clear from the reactions that they prefer to take place on their own initiative and by law they are given the opportunity. After all, as was 45, it was optional and since it is a process that was seen by the institutions, it is more likely to create confusion than to facilitate it, it is removed. Now from Article 18 of Law 2121/93 on the fair remuneration for media and reproduction systems, i.e. from Article 55(2) of the present case (a) remove mobile phones, smart phones, and that is because we take into account the ongoing trials that are under way, but also because mobile phones are a special category of multipurpose machines. We keep computers with tablets, with a fee set at 2% to strengthen intellectual creators.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u492	One percent did it 2%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u493	One percent became 2%.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u494	Legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u495	Yeah, he's been filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u496	No legislative improvement has been made.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u497	Excuse me, yesterday there was consultation with the agencies. There have been too many actors who are concerned about 1%. We heard it carefully and incorporated it. When do we have to testify to this? He's been filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u498	Mrs Conniordos, please complete with any other legislative improvements, so that they may also be submitted and shared to the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u499	Furthermore, Article 55(3) is removed, because it appeared from yesterday's negotiations that the issue of digital reproduction in schools is something that needs more discussion among the relevant bodies. The relevant provision of Law 2121/93 on reproduction and teaching and examination remains in force. Paragraph 4 shall remain the same. In order to facilitate smaller collective management organisations after yesterday's debate on their management costs, we have predicted that, when their gross income does not exceed EUR 500,000, management costs should on average not exceed 25% of the Agency's gross revenue. It is clear in the transitional provisions that this obligation, as requested, starts in November 2019 and there are other smaller legal arrangements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u500	Say them, you have to tell them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u501	Do you want me to read them all? You asked me...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u502	The Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u503	It was asked by the Members - you were not then - because there were many, not to read them, because they would take them into their hands.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u504	But you must describe them. Say this article, this article...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u505	If you want me to read them, there's a lot of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u506	Mrs. Connordou, if there's a lot of them...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u507	Some of them are verbal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u508	Okay, but I have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u509	Allow me, Mr Javarra, to do with the quality characterisation. So if we're going to change a word, don't get to that point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u510	What articles does he make of the interventions?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u511	It's a few words...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u512	Mrs. Connordos, based on the situation you have for the changes that you propose...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u513	Say the articles.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u514	...as you refer to the articles and the paragraphs you are improving that you change.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u515	In Article 9, there are improvements concerning words. The word ‘creators’ shall be replaced by the word ‘members’. In Article 18, it is what I have put you now for the SACs up to 500,000. In Article 51, concerning independent management entities, the words ‘whether existing or recommended after the entry into force of this Law’ shall be added, and so on. In the first paragraph of Article 52, there are legislative improvements. They're verbal again. After the word ‘proposing’, the words ‘after the recommendation of the OPI or the Supervisory Board,’ shall be inserted. After the word ‘five (5)’ the word ‘persons’ shall be replaced by ‘persons’. In Article 54, the following improvements are made: the word 'September' is replaced by the word 'November'. in paragraph 5, the word ‘September’ shall be replaced by ‘November’ in the same way. After the last subparagraph of paragraph 6, the words ‘The obligation referred to in Article 18(5) shall apply from 1 November 2019’. Similarly, in paragraph 8, the word ‘September’ is replaced by the word ‘November’. In Article 55, the following legal improvements shall apply: in the second subparagraph of paragraph 1, the words ‘and paragraph 15’ shall be replaced by ‘and paragraph 14’. In the first subparagraph of paragraph 3 of Article 18 of Law 2121/1993, as amended by paragraph 2A, the words ‘scans and printers’ shall be added after the word ‘scans and printers’. (a) in the first subparagraph of Article 18(3) of the Law. 2121/1993, as amended by paragraph 2A, the words 'determined to 1%' shall be replaced by 'determined to 2%'. In the first subparagraph of paragraph (c) of Article 18 of Law 2121/1993, as amended by paragraph 2A, the words ‘scanners, printers’ shall be added after the word ‘scanners’. In the 11th subparagraph of paragraph 10 of Article 54 of Law 2121/1993, as amended by paragraph 16A, the words ‘or technical advisers’ shall be inserted after the words ‘and with administrative support staff’. Paragraph 3 shall be deleted and renumbered all subsequent paragraphs of Article 55. Article 45 of the draft law is withdrawn and the balances are renumbered accordingly.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u516	Madam Minister, I'm sorry, this is where the Bureau is responsible. The Minister was forced, following Mr Javara's call, to read out to the House the legislative improvements which were made. They have already been tabled to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u517	We know.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u518	And if you know that, you're forcing the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u519	No, we don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u520	Allow me, the term is mine. You put her in trouble to read while you've taken them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u521	No, look, there's been a dignosis about...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u522	Anyway, Minister, are you done?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u523	It's a last legal improvement. I gave it to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u524	Tell her, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u525	In the second paragraph of Article 50, the words ‘existing at the date of entry into force of this Regulation’ shall be added and the word ‘these’ shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u526	Good. That's horrific.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u527	I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u528	We will now give the floor to the rapporteurs and to the special speakers. Who's gonna start? Mr. Darkness? Mrs. Kefaliannis?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u529	Can we get the legislative improvements so we can get in?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u530	They've already been shot, they're on the benches right and left, and most of them, I don't know about the latter, they've already been shared, Mrs. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u531	They haven't been distributed. Can we get them, so we can get them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u532	So what do you suggest? Can we take a break? I say that it follows the cycle of the seconds of the rapporteurs and the special speakers. Who, then, will take the floor from the rapporteurs or speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u533	I need five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u534	Good, you need five minutes. Next.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u535	Mr President, if I may, I would ask the floor for a minute to clarify something in order to facilitate the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u536	Mrs. Vaki, make it clear what?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u537	Something about the contested article 61.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u538	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u539	Mrs. Vaki, what exactly do you want for Article 61?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u540	What I was told is that on 11 July in the Committee on Education, Youth, Education and the Media this article was withdrawn and there is no question that it was not read. Once legislative improvements have been submitted and withdrawn, we can assume that they have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u541	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u542	They don't always read, as far as I know. I may be wrong, but no legal improvements are always read. Once distributed, I think that his withdrawal has been ratified.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u543	Article 61 has already been withdrawn by the Commission.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u544	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u545	How?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u546	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u547	Let me talk for a minute. I didn't tell you I deprive you of your word.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u548	I was placed, Mrs Vaki, on article 61 and no one said she was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u549	Allow me. I am being informed by the services of the procedure followed by the Commission, in which Article 61, the article at issue, in any case, has been removed by means of a specific legislative regulation - as you say - he has shared it and from what I am told, is in the knowledge of the rapporteurs in the committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u550	No, Mr. President. Would you excuse me for a minute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u551	You must say your objection, we must listen to it, but I must submit to the House, what I have just heard from the services, that is, what happened in the Committee on Culture. This has to do with it, and I think it is not the Article 61 at issue. Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u552	Thank you so much for giving me the floor. I would like to tell you that, in general, this urgency procedure has become a crook. Do you know why? Because I specifically said yesterday - and I would ask you very much to read the minutes of the Committee on Forums - have spoken about Article 61 in committee and no one has bothered to inform us that it has been withdrawn from the body of the bill. I was placed for Article 61. If these are done under fast forward procedures and the Minister herself does not know that the article has been withdrawn and it allows for a procedure to be carried out where all the rapporteurs for Article 61 are placed, that is another story. We are coming today and there has been no withdrawal from anywhere from the recital or from the texts of the bill. So what withdrawal are we talking about? Thank you for the brief speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u553	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u554	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u555	What do you want, Mrs. Vaki? What do you want, Mr. Javarra? On this one again?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u556	Is that insignificant?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u557	For a moment, Mr President, we have to make it easier for this House and for this House to do so. Mrs Kefalidou and Mrs Kefaliannis said that they were placed in Article 61 and you did not receive an answer. One might not have noticed it, one might not have been in the Chamber at that time, he might not have been well focused. If it is - and I ask - the legislative improvements of 11 July, even if they have not been read, can it be understood that it has been withdrawn or not? I know it's thought he's retired.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u558	Can I add something?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u559	A repetition. The Committee was presented with a legislative improvement. Yes or no? Yeah. You know that, Mr Javarra, Mrs Vaki, the other rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u560	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u561	Can you read us what the Rules of Procedure says? I should like to say something to you, Mr President, because at some point the Rules of Procedure must be applied here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u562	I'm telling the House right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u563	I do not know what the services of this House say, but what I know is that any improvement is made orally, and if the House agrees, it is done in an economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u564	Would you excuse me, Mr. Javarra?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u565	Come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u566	No, come on! No, go to me now! Not here, come on!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u567	Well then bring the speeches written and not go up to the Step of the House. That's where we're gonna end up!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u568	No, 'Come on, 'cause I know how to use that language too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u569	I did not say to you 'Come on now'. I respect the president.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u570	Listen, I repeat. It was removed by way of legislative improvement, which was submitted to committee, Article 61. In the minutes drawn up at the end of the committee's work, Article 61 does not exist. When I say in the committee's report, I mean the final report by the committee. There's no such article. That's as far as it goes. So there is no question of Article 61. If there is another question for another article or for a roll-call vote, etc., this request shall be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u571	Mr. President, may I contribute?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u572	You have the floor, Mr. Darkness.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u573	Mr President, in presenting the articles yesterday, I did not refer to this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u574	I'm sorry, but electronically in the minutes of the committee's report this morning, Article 61 appeared to be a regular one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u575	Well, don't solve the electronics now or not. [[Noise - protests]] I won't apologise. I'm so sorry. Please. We'll start with the seconds of the rapporteurs and the speakers. Who's going to start by the rapporteurs? Mr. Fisherman, would you like to answer for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u576	Thank you, Mr President. As we can hear, they came just before the bill was passed, and while the procedure was completed by a hundred and fifty - two pages of legislative improvements, we learned that one or two or three articles have been withdrawn. We don't know exactly how much or how much. We do not know what changes have been made, if 1% has become 2%, when and why, if the sums to be allocated to Article 18 are after 2019 or before or if they are 25% of the five hundred thousand or if they have to be given tonight. We do not understand what we are talking about here, what we are voting on. This crook, I think it's global first. I don't want to offend any African country. I fear that we are beyond Africa to talk about artistic and film directed and directed. So these things that are going on here, and we're talking, are being convicted. If the Potami had fifteen Members here right now, we would ask for a roll-call vote on the principle and on all the articles and amendments. We will see if the signatures can be gathered and a roll-call vote can be requested. It's tragic what's happening. We should be discussing the robbery that has been made by the 'GDP', which is three pages. Lack of control, money pocketed by families and their partners, who are millions, 7.5m euros and another 7.5m euros and 8.5m euros and court decisions, etc. Is there a request for intervention and a commissioner, but did we get the money from the familia, share it with the artists, the creators, the owners of copyright? If we didn't get them to date, how long will we get them from the familia robbers, share them with the artists, the people they wrote, who made up, and the related rights? I would like to say a few words about this, and not a 'congenital' rights. Let's change that word too. Let us say 'little rights' and not 'kinds', so that some do not think they are rights for our relatives. I want to speak in my dentext on the articles that were numbered in an old bill, which came after two bills that were withdrawn and the first had completed its process, had come for a vote almost and on the eve. Then came another one. It was discussed from here and there and not even tabled. We said that the first bill, to which all operators other than GSP agreed, would be submitted. In all the following, 2016 and the current one, only the “GDP” agrees and all the other entities disagree. We are all told that there has been no negotiation and no consultation, but only unofficial discussions? Well, instead of discussing all the matter again, in substance, and with the arguments of people who are both within the government itself or who are in the government or who are in the parties to the government and we can decide with all the soberness and maturity and dignity we can have and vote on the substance, namely, in order to secure copyright in this country, we are extinguishing the familiale together with the money that he has dived, we are covering the whole system and we are giving the 'GUI' to some people who are no longer the familia. There goes the familia, took the money and left and we are looking now, how we're going to set up the "GDP" to something of our own, so we can keep it and bring two more "GDP". Isn't that the point? How am I supposed to vote for these? Tell me. So, what kind of an honest vote am I going to vote for these things? When - thank you very much for listening to me - the Hellenic Association of Music Publishers has made fifteen complaints about the substance. I have nothing more to say. We will tell you that we will consider what we can vote on from these two, three amendments and perhaps an article, if there is the number there. I do not know how many more innumerable articles there are and how many other amendments you will always bring in the urgency procedure, because we are urgent to do business. It is unacceptable and embarrassing for the Greek Parliament. It's over and out. Thank you so much and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u577	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u578	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u579	I would like to announce that Article 67 is withdrawn after the serious objections.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u580	So Article 67 is withdrawn. Good. Mr. Megamomustakas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u581	Article 67 with which numbering? The one that already exists? Because we've been confused since this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u582	It's Article 68.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u583	According to the morning body of the draft law. Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u584	Come on, Mr. Big-fashioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u585	Okay, what's happening today is tragic. Since this morning, we have been warning you that because of bad planning and lack of planning, we will not go as we should go here to the Chamber and that is what has happened. All Parliament's wings have been confused. It's unacceptable. That is why all the speakers and colleagues in the committees were warning. [[Noise from the river Wing]] I know what they're gonna do. All right, Mr. Fisherman. So we support it, because we want a solution to this important problem of copyright at last. It's just that that's unauthorized. So we want to support, we want to show our consent and our support to all the creators and you come and spin a comedy of poor quality, unfortunately. Since this morning we have been asking you what legislative improvements will be made and you will come right before the bill ends and you change them all the time and remove articles and make legislative improvements. That is unacceptable. I have nothing more to add. Unfortunately, this is the picture that we want to give to the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u586	Thank you, Mr. Megalustakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u587	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u588	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u589	I beg your pardon, so that there is no confusion, because Article 45 has been removed, the final numbering is 66 if I am not mistaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u590	All right, all right, there's gonna be a number. The special speaker from the Communist Party, Mr. Delis, followed by Mr. Gregos from the Golden Dawn and Mrs. Kefalidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u591	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to say a little bit about the bill, although the main part of our position will be the amendments. It is a bill, in which there was a lot of talk about "GSPI", the sinful "GSPI" as we have said, but this same bill with the provisions it provides, leads things to becoming even more "GSPI" or speculative companies in the field of copyright. We literally have a storm of legal improvements. I don't think that's helping this thing to be able to watch. Okay, not all of them are essential, but some of them are. In most cases the term "legislative improvements" and, above all, the term "improvements" is rather euphemistic, because things are probably going worse than they are worsening the bill. I would like to make a comment on the amendment tabled by our party on visual intervention in public buildings, a decision, a law of the State which does not apply. We're waiting for your answer. You asked us to remove something. We accepted it. As far as we know - I don't know - it's probably gonna be rejected. You're going to say that, of course, I don't want to make it up to you. I wish I could go out a liar. Unfortunately, this will not be a positive development if that is the case. The second thing I would like to raise with regard to the amendments is that 1100 recently came in on the proper functioning and safety of archaeological sites for workers, that is that they cannot give up their jobs. That's right, of course. The question is not whether from now on they cannot resign. The question is what will happen to those workers who have already resigned for various reasons. What's predicted for them? We would like an answer for that too. I am going to the amendment for actors, for schools of artistic education, where it seems that an injustice has been restored or is trying to restore itself, anyway, within the provisions, as they have been formulated, the article of the amendment contains certain traps, especially in relation to the 2003 milestone, which initially give a lot of responsibility by means of the ministerial decision-making method to the relevant ministries and, in some way, introduce certification and lead to the categorisation of these schools. We want to ask you. We would prefer that there should be a clear wording, such as 'equivalent to or equal to the degrees of recognized schools of artistic education up to 2003'. That is a clear wording. It's not printed like that. If you accept this wording, as I have said now, we shall vote on it. If, however, it is not accepted, then we shall vote 'the present'. I now come to the MAH's amendment, an amendment which comes to correct or amend an amendment that was made a month ago on the elections of the NCA, which was in line with FIFA and UEFA's regulations and which came up with the'reinsurance'. We want to ask the government. Who do you think you're kidding? And FIFA and UEFA aren't those who serve sport commodity, are they not those who serve business activity in football, which leads directly to strife and corruption? For the FIFA and UEFA scandals, where the place not only in Greece, did you hear nothing? And FIFA comes as a referee, the corrupt ones, to fight corruption? They come as referees, in fact to settle as much as possible the savage contours of competitors, evolving in Greek football. We think the rotten structure of the professional football you're going to retouch is no longer made. At the same time, however, amateur football and amateur sport are planting themselves in the economic impoverishment that you have condemned them, with the fish donations you give them, when you give them these too. Of course there are immediate solutions, but they do not fit into your policy. Remove the participation of Greek teams in the "Boy" and in all kinds of gambling games. Check the anonymous sports companies, OAEs and OAEs from the Ministry of Development, because they fall under the Ministry of Sports. Stop the multi-modal financing of these public limited companies. Prohibit the lending of players among groups of the same class. Beat, in other words, the uterus of business activity and the role of businessmen in the field of sport. However, neither can you nor do you want to do so, so you continue on the road to the government that the previous ones have drawn. For all these reasons, we will vote'representations' in the relevant amendment of the WEU, as we voted in the previous one. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I now come to the issue of the Museum of the Agricultural Movement in Killer. A first point is that the issue is serious enough to be introduced here, to be debated so little with an amendment. I will not say that the amendment was written 'on the knee'. On the contrary. But I think it's probably wrong for the seriousness of the matter, the procedure chosen. What I would like to say, however, in the substance of the amendment, is that it seems that SYRIZA has made the tactical 'Kissarian' hoi. As in Cesarean this morning you were filing a wreath and at noon you were calling NATO to the Aegean Sea, so now, at the time your policy is wildly tolerating the farmers, at the same time the government is recommending and advertising the establishment of the Museum of the Agricultural Movement in Killer. Of course your objective is this anti-agricultural policy that you are implementing, covering it up and as much as you can. It's hard, of course, it's hard. It's not that easy. But that's your goal, though. In any case, it would not be us who would oppose the establishment of such a museum. But the museum is not only a building, a couple of wardrobes and some possible photos. Because, as you say in the explanatory statement, this museum is also planned to have action and a number of activities. Besides, it is not a simple museum of natural history that has animals or plants or anything else. It's going to be a real history museum. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] The question is these actions of the museum, in what ideological direction will they go. For example, will the true history of the heroic struggle of the columns of the Thessaloniki camp be projected in the first decades of the 20th century against the repressive mechanisms of the then urban state or move - why will it make - the official urban version of the history of the rural movement? Why don't you tell me that this state has suddenly changed and it's not urban anymore. All right, we're saying a lot, but don't say that. In any case, what we want to say is that this state...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u592	And that's what you're finishing up with.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u593	And that is what I am ending, Mr President. So this state, as then with the known methods, hit the agricultural movement, today the same state in other forms, of course, with an anti-agricultural policy, and in cooperation with the European Union and the common agricultural policy, leads farmers to the same results. In any case, anyone who wants to honor the heroic struggles of the necklaces continues them now in the new circumstances, and that is what the JRC does.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u594	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u595	That is why - Mr President, let me finish - and we will be here, voting 'at present' on this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u596	Mr. Gregus has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u597	Thank you, Mr President. I would describe this procedure as a lame piece of legislation, with articles that are lost, then removed - we do not know whether any other article will be removed until the end of the vote. We've been distributed to the innard. I hope that the numbering is correct and that we do not have any other problems. I would suggest, perhaps, that there should also be an interruption before the vote, Mr President, so that we do not have any further problems. So we saw articles removed. Nobody got a hammer, how this was done. I shall now turn to the amendments. Amendment No 1093, which you have tabled, is usually too late. We will not stand up to this so much, but we must highlight and denounce the clandestineness that characterises your legislative attitude. In order to be more specific, with the proposed provision of the amendment, Article 24(12) of Law 2725/1999 is replaced by Article 24 of Law 2725/1999, which was introduced by the resolution of No 4479/2017 just two weeks ago. In any case, given that the NCA has to carry out antiquities in order to create its leadership and its statutes, it has been in line with the international texts of the UEFA and FIFA international football federations, we have raised some objections. We say'residents' in order to proceed with the processes. As far as Amendment No 1094, this amendment is concerned, it is a classic case of a ruptured provision, aimed at guaranteeing the working future of the days, at a time when work due to the management of the government is not considered to be self-evident. The maximum amount of EUR 2 million for the renewal of existing fixed-term work contracts and project contracts for the year 2018, for the minimum workers employed by the company "ELLENIC FESTIVAL S.A.", cannot be justified on any grounds. We are voting against this amendment. The purpose of Amendment No 1095, as stated in the explanatory statement, is to cover the service needs of the Athens Concert Hall. The content shows that the service needs will be met by secondments from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture and Sport. This is another case where the suspected flexibility that characterises your Government regarding the phenomenon of employee mobility is observed. Although relatively recently a law was adopted which introduced the single mobility system, in which the relevant provisions should be laid down, you are once again choosing by way of a late amendment, to lay down the arrangements for posting for these officials, who, in our view, become privileged compared to others. We are also voting against this amendment. Amendment No 1096 is an amendment of no importance, which provides for the establishment of a National Farm Movement Museum. After the establishment of the Belogann Museum, the government, attempting to satisfy the ideological needs of its party base, comes to legislate on establishing a museum for the Farm Movement of Killer. The explanatory statement clearly shows the intention of the authors to take a lame ideological approach to the historical view of the agricultural movement, and when the government itself does everything to destroy what is left over in the country's primary sector and in agricultural production. We are talking about a left-wing resolution, a tax policy that puts the farmer on the margin and much more. Farmers will not come out of a bad position if you legislate on establishing a Killer Memorial. In any case, for the so-called historical memory, there is also a relevant monument in the region. You just want to satisfy your micropolitical aspirations and possibly your ideological syndromes. We are also voting against this amendment. Amendment 1097. The question of the logic of education leave concerns, by law, only permanent staff posts throughout the public sector. The exclusion of a few employees only for good reasons constitutes an obvious inequality compared to the rest of the public service workers. We are also voting against this amendment. Amendment 1098. As far as the exchange rates are concerned, since they are critical and relate to several categories of graduates of different qualifications, they cannot be treated in fragmentary terms and in a way that is apparent for political purposes and even without consultation. We are voting against the amendment. As far as Amendment No 1100 is concerned, although this amendment comes to amend Article 47 of Law No 4440/2016, which was introduced into the relevant bill in the form of a parliamentary amendment, namely 771/10, which at the time we voted against, we are now saying'residents', because it tends to improve the legal regime governing relations between workers in this category and public sector and seems to ensure their basic salaries. Let me say that we are very sorry, because this bill has been tabled in the form of an emergency with all the problems that this has caused, and we are very sorry that we are sure that from now on you will continue to legislate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u598	Thank you, too. Mrs. Kefalidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u599	Thank you, Mr President. So today it closes with legislative improvements and a dance of amendments that create a toxic, I would say, atmosphere in Parliament. The draft law, which started as a mere harmonisation of a Community directive, ends its three-day adventure in the most glorious way. The urgency of the process today, in the most characteristic way, proves what side effects it can cause: sloppy, inadequacy, deterioration of the legalisation process. It's getting us all close, ladies and gentlemen. None of this escapes. I am going to the amendments so that we do not waste time. I begin with the amendment concerning the secondments from the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of Culture at the Athens Concert Hall. My first question, Minister, is: How photographic is this provision? Why wouldn't the distractions be from all the ministries? Why shouldn't it be from all over the public sector? Why specifically from the Treasury and just from there? Can I remind you something else? The law you have passed on mobility says that the cost of the payroll of seconded officials will be covered by the institution to which they are seconded. You guys are doing the right thing for me. You change your own law and allow it to be paid by the agency of origin, i.e. by the Treasury. In addition, you know very well that recruitment of the Director-General took place in March, it has not yet been officially announced that he has not taken up his duties. The position of the artistic director and the Director-General is currently covered. And of course, the posts you take are absolutely photographic and, as always, with "axiocratic criteria", employees will be recruited at the Congregation of Music. You have been exposed to this amendment. I don't know if you understand. We are voting 'no'. Let's go to the proper operation and safety of archaeological sites. Here you actually close your eye on the workers and play with their anxiety. The right to work is sacred, respected, and I would now tell you that no one must be more careful when it comes to desperate people. So, to the workers involved in this amendment, have you made it clear whether you have also consulted the institutions? You're moving on to a process of returning workers. Do the institutions know that? Have they given the green light? We, because it is aimed at workers, want to tell them that we are simply supporting and respecting their struggle for a decent living. Let's go on the subject of training permits for National Gallery officials. Madam Minister, warm request. In what we ask, we must have some answers. Three days now you have not answered the issues that we consider to be very important in order to be able to put up and vote in this bill - adventure. Give me an answer at last. We hope that, at the closure of your speech, we will be more fortunate and that there will be answers. Educational permits for employees of the National Gallery. We understand that it is a constant tactic to have one, one and a half permits, two months for educational purposes. I'd tell you it's good to be given with enthusiasm and there's a result. When these people go to education, take a piece of paper, appear to be a training course, that is to say, their stay outside of service can also have an impact when they return back to work. You know, of course, that you haven't included all the specialties. There are some specialties involved in the National Gallery, which you exclude. We are therefore voting 'at present' and we are very sceptical. Art education schools. This amendment concerns graduates from public and private schools of artistic education. It has been a loose end since 2003. People are trying to find a parity of their studies. He once gave the I.D. I.D. Now it's gone. Replaced by IATAP. It is an adventure that is extremely serious and requires more general and in-depth reform in cooperation with the Ministry of Education at all times. What you are proposing today is that it is very handsome and inappropriate and we would like a word to be exhaustive. By voting 'at present' we put the thought of bringing it to another moment, to discuss it. I'm telling you again that it's an unfinishedness of the past. It has to end. On the subject of the Greek Festival - I told you and the committees - you cannot legislate at the same time to bring an amendment that could have been included in the body of the bill with such care. It's a need known. You knew her. You knew the problems of the Greek Festival. The sloppyness, with which it is submitted, is indicative of the entire effort. We are therefore voting here too. We shall now proceed to the amendment on the VDU. The EPA is nothing but the way in which the current Minister, Mr Vassiliadis, has rendered the corollary of the previous Minister, Mr Kontonis. Because it is certainly extremely difficult to vote for what your parliamentary group and your previous Minister have voted for, the solution has been found. Part by piece, through amendments, through legislative improvements, we will put together the uncomplicated ones. But, you know, people wake up, watch what is going on, and that is nothing but a shameful amendment for you, because it abolishes what you defended and voted on some time ago. We are also voting 'at present' in the MAI amendment. And I'm going to the last, the establishment of a National Farm Movement Museum, Killer. It's very nice to gloat and gloat ears. You know, Greece is a martyrdom. Everywhere someone looks can create thousands of museums, thousands of things to honor people who have passed through this place. But I would like to ask: Beyond this really nice idea and beyond the policy that SYRIZA colleagues want to implement, is there a feasibility study? Is there a sustainability study? Beyond the nice place, do we know how to operate this museum? You're talking about self-financing. Where is it supposed to be? There's not a single element in what you've testified.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u600	Mrs. Kefalidou, put a perfect one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u601	My question to the Minister is this: here the Ministry closes museums because it cannot function because it does not have the revenue, it does not have the staff. Can you establish a museum new and not have the luck of the previous ones? We are also voting on the motion for a resolution. Thank you for the time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u602	Thank you, too. Mrs. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u603	Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate in Parliament shows why the urgency procedure should be avoided. We have said since the first time that we have not understood why a bill, which has been in public consultation since December 2015, which has spent so many weeks in ministerial offices, parliamentary offices or other places where the bill has been consulted, should be introduced here in Parliament in accordance with the urgency procedure. And only this sloppiness proves what we've been saying since the beginning, that we didn't understand why such an important bill brought it in this process. Let me tell you, of course, that we are basically on the edge of the parody. The only responsibility for this is for the government. Yesterday I talked about embarrassing. I would say today, in the plenary session, that this embarrassment has turned into an absolute weakness. Already, Minister, you have withdrawn some provisions from your bill. If we had a little time, you'd have withdrawn the entire bill. Here, of course, I would like to tell you, the ironic, that you have withdrawn the provision of Article 61, as you had first tabled it. You told us you were doing it because there was a conflict of competence. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture. Mr. Pappas took it from you. You did well to bring her back to the Ministry of Culture. But obviously intra-government conflict forced you to take this provision back, which we could also be positive. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, the bill collapsed in the House yesterday in the most vague way in committee, but mainly today, with your inability to defend it. It is particularly regrettable, because the truth is that the European Union's collection and management directive has been an opportunity to set a order, to have a modern framework to regulate collective management and so to have this tripartite that we have said since the beginning: transparency, accountability and protection of the public interest. We said many times that the previous bill prepared by Mr Baltas, this bill that had entered into public consultation, which had passed through the CEN procedure, which had received the signatures of the eight Ministers, was a bill, which, as was said by a majority of the bodies yesterday in Parliament, was very close to what would be expected of a government coming to legislate to put a class on this whole issue. This bill was withdrawn from Mr Balta. He was trying today to explain once again why he was withdrawn. One of the reasons was that he wanted to see the question of Article 45 of the public service, an article that you today withdrew from the bill. This shows not only the sloppiness, but essentially that your bill has collapsed here today as a paper tower. It's a crook. I wonder how the creators will feel today in view of this curiosity. Your main argument was that you did an exhausting job. It was finally revealed today and with all these revolts and all these changes and all these amendments and all these legislative improvements and all this sloppyness that was basically the clutchiest gonade. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in a parliamentary discount and we are still wondering - you see here that we have taken up the amendments to ministerial, parliamentary, registration and legislative improvements - what we are going to vote on. And it turns out in practice that none of what you've been telling us all this time was happening. You brought the barn - a badly-written rag without numbering and, finally, we wonder what made you testify so much. What are you hiding behind this rush? Yesterday you misunderstood me talking about embarrassment. I'm saying I was diligent again. It's about weakness. I'm sorry, Mrs. Connordou, I'm sorry, Minister. I'm being honest with you. We're looking for ways to collect uncomfortables. Unfortunately, I will repeat it. I am very concerned, because we are in the face of the collapse, and we are still trying to discover the numbering. I should like to mention how roughly you are legislating. This morning we told you about Article 55 that there is a recommendation from the European Union that we are waiting for and that it is reasonable to expect the recommendation to be made before legislation, that the European Parliament's Committee on Culture yesterday delivered an opinion on the issue of intellectual property in the digital single market. Instead of correcting the question of Article 55, instead of saying 'goodly, wait for what is going to happen in the European Union so that we can legislate and be compatible with what the rest of Europe will anticipate', you also come with a legal improvement of 1%. In other words, which is so essential, you bring it with a legislative improvement. What else can we say from there? The sloppyness with which you are legislating also seems to be from the fact that the second part of the bill is essentially a multitude of different provisions, mainly of a technical nature and not just of a technical nature. You're getting out. You're making provisions. It is so photographic that you then bring additions to these photo devices, like the one for the Concert Hall. You are bringing an amendment to something that also exists in the bill in another form. I told you yesterday that archaeological law is a law which has been passed here in Parliament since 2002 with a huge majority, with two hundred fifty MPs. You can't change him every three or a little. It is a law that is serious and any differentiation, any addition, any amendment needed and a debate and a lot of grief. You bring every three and a few changes to this very important law, to the archaeological law. And that is where you seem essentially to be dealing with cultural issues. Now I was prepared to tell you about the insidious way in which you legislate, but fortunately you withdrew this article that was about being able to do oneself, except in fact procedures, if he has a programme contract with the Ministry, to go ahead and do his job, as he thinks, in other words, without either the services or the state. As far as the amendments are concerned, we have told you this morning that all this stuff you are doing, with parliamentary amendments to come to the regulation of matters, is not just a clipboard, but is totally abolishing the meaning of the executive authority that comes and proposes to the legislature. I shall therefore refer to, because I do not have time, only to the amendment by the Ministry of Culture and Sport, which Mr Vassilidis said the day before yesterday and which Mr Vassiliou supported, because we will vote for the amendment to be adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I would just like to remind the House that the Ministry is actually moving on to its third series of legislative intervention for the Greek Football Federation. This amendment concerns the setting-up of the federation's general electoral assembly in order to hold elections and to create elected administration by 31 July, as foreseen in the timetable of the international football federations. In this case, the exemption is provided for by Law No.4323/2015, according to which it should apply the sporting law and is governed by its statutes. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Vassiliadis amendment had been preceded by the election of the representative of the ETUC in December last year, as well as the provision for the statutory general meeting of the ETUC last June in the mini-sport bill, which went through the urgent procedure again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u604	Complete, Mrs. Kefaliannis. You said you didn't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u605	I shall conclude, Mr President. In all three cases, the Minister of Sport exempts Sport from the Contonis Law and renders the law of his predecessor. Evidently, this is under the pressure of FIFA, UEFA and the others and the final procedure remains to be legally shielded. We have already stressed from the two legislative interventions that preceded the paradox to lead the statute and harmonise it, and the opposite should be true. And I will say, therefore, that the New Democracy respects the self-interest of the NGO, but cannot vote in favour of this amendment, rewarding the inconsistency of the government in this matter. We shall therefore vote 'the present'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u606	The circle will be closed by Mr. Skouriakos and in the capacity of the author.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u607	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, we must follow the procedures, ladies and gentlemen, because there have been battles here, clashes - I would say - which have proved to be unnecessarily unnecessarily needed, as the services of this House have given us. There was a fuss to get dust up. And there was quite a lot of dust up, because we might be missed - or we have to escape - the substance. What do I mean? I want to say - and I am sorry about this - that, in particular, the two parties, the New Democracy and the Democratic Association of PASOK - you have not spoken of the bill. You became embroidered in the history of its creation as observers. You said and said again about the urgency, about the legislative improvements, but about the bill, about the articles, about the substance you did not talk about. You were the parties that just watched the articles pass. However, you have complied with one word in the 'teratogenicity'. You told the creators, who for the first time are given a speech and an action space, that this very thing is a teratogenicity. The "fines" have grown over your days both, at least that's what says the official paper we have from "ERNST & YENGK" for the "ESP" for the years 2011-2014. Of course, before 2011, let us not be fooled and why to hide it anyway. So over the years there has been a violation of the rights of authors who have been on the side and who have been afraid. You said nothing about all this project that gives creators the right to decide on the general assembly, on the supervisory boards elected by the general assembly and which have a decisive role. Is it good what we did for the creators? Is it bad? Should we take it off? Should the creators not decide? Does the state deepen its control cover you? Is it good? Or should we leave it, as you have done, and should the SGP and all the SGPs be magnified? Is it wrong, then, that the state intervenes more and controls for the benefit of the creator? And for 20% of the expenditure on management and the provisions accompanying it, you said nothing! You're fighting like this without a program! There were speakers, there were a parliamentary representative who had not been informed that the book issue was settled. He read last year's Bayer announcements. No one was found to tell him? The Minister made a statement yesterday in the Committee on Morphic Affairs on this matter. Nobody told him? There was another Parliamentary spokesman who had nothing to say about the bill and took language and literary history lessons. Let Mr. Babiniotis be shivered! You're building a world that doesn't exist. There was an exemplary hearing of the bodies. And because it didn't happen what you imagined, where you want, to get up swearing, yelling, you announced a war climate that never existed. Look, the minutes are there and there's the video from the House TV. Everyone can look for them, and I advise you to look for them too, because of the seventy-seven articles, objections were, of course, raised about the five. On the subject of history with the amendment of the Ministry of Sport, I would just like to say that this amendment enables the NRA to proceed to assemblies and elections on the basis of the rules of its statutes, unless you want to tell her to change statutes. In fact, I fell from the clouds the way the Democratic Reconciliation, the PASOK, dealt with the issue of the Museum of Killer. Below the clouds! Such micropsy, really, I wasn't expecting her. It seems that Killer's struggle is of minor importance, as well as the redistribution of the earth.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u608	That's enough populism, Mr. Comrade! That's enough!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u609	Please, be quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u610	I am sorry that today's PASOK is light years from the founding values of this party. Look, we have all lived here a breakthrough of interest for the creators. You're not fooling anyone! The creators and the speakers have a first-hand view of your interests for the creators. You are the two parties that, in 2013, cost my fellow actors 3,5 euros an hour. You cost them 7 euros a show, abolishing our collective agreements, with 35 euros a week, with 140 euros a month! And if the show was a success, and it played four months, with 560 euros a season, half a year! At the end of August 2018, the collective agreements will come back. However, what the SYRIZA - ANEL government could and should have done and the present Minister did: He signed collective contracts for state theatres, for the National and State of Northern Greece with the actors individually and the technicians of each theatre. You had condemned us for 3,5 euros an hour! We have the pleasure of having brought an anthropocentric bill, a bill that for the first time enables creators to have an opinion, opinion and decisive intervention for their works, for their creations. So I urge you to vote for it, because you will offer very great services, both to creators and to culture and homes. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u611	And we respect time. Here, Minister, you have the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u612	Mr President, there are several questions which also need answers. Maybe I'll need more time. For Article 15, for which a question has been asked, under the Community directive, there can be no exclusion of those AEOs which are created in the future. Beneficiaries should be able to administer their rights to independent management entities, which are commercial entities. For the issue of libraries, let me say that as sensitive as space as publishing space is and authors, respectively, sensitive and important are the area of education, knowledge diffusion, students and future authors. Fortunately, there was an agreement between both sides on paragraph 4. Paragraph 3 will also be the subject of greater consultation. Why did he have to go through in the form of an emergency? Because, as I explained yesterday, the Community directive urgently needs to be incorporated - in order not to bring the European Commission before court, since we have already received an extension - and the OECD Third Toolbox recommendations and the arrangements of the Ministry of Culture must be implemented immediately. Documentation on the amendment by the Secretary of State for Sports: The amendment allows the NCA to proceed to its assemblies and elections on the basis of the rules of its statute. This concession is the result of the new rules on transparency, good administration, accountability and good governance, which entered the federation's statute after the General Assembly on 30 June. It has been a question of most governments over the last thirty years that no legal person can be excluded from the provisions of the Law on good administration and accountability. We are at the beginning of a course that aims to hit corruption, which was hidden so many years under the table and simulated Greek football. The Deputy Minister of Sports had made it clear that immediately after the adoption by the OSH of the minimal rules of transparency and good governance required, in cooperation with FIFA and UEFA, he would submit the amendment, with a view to returning to normality and to the rules applicable to all and to everyone. Article 57- the former 59- ensures that large-scale projects also undertake to cover the costs of archaeological work. That's what's happening anyway today. It arises from the archaeological law obligation to cover the economics of life excavations by the master of the project. This provision stipulates precisely what work is covered and that if the cost exceeds 5% of the total budget, which is a significant burden on the project, a decision of the Minister is required after a reasoned opinion of the central councils of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. Article 63, ex 65, concerns vessels, vehicles, old aircraft. The Ministry's services found that there is an empty law. Vessels, etc. Because of their volume and complexity, they are similar to real estate. However, while property is provided for the possibility of setting up a committee which will provide for measures to rescue it, when the whole is not possible, it is not the same as vehicles, boats and aircraft. The possibility of dismantling, in this case, is intended to save the party when the whole is not possible. For example, traditional vessels are completely destroyed, while parts of them could be cut off, maintained and rescued. Article 64- the former 66- concerns the state guarantee. Instead of paying the Ministry very expensive premiums to private individuals, it will cover public insurance. That's how the public gets away with money. For example, in the period 2003-2011, we paid over EUR 1.5 million in premiums, while the compensation for losses of exhibits amounted to EUR 423. This is an institution that most countries of the European Union have and on the initiative of the European Union, which invites the Member States to adopt it. For KSOT and the Thessaloniki Concert, the provisions concern funding and revenue from European programmes, from programming contracts with municipalities and regions, from publications, from donations. The amendment on visual intervention in public buildings generally finds us positive. But there is also a need for further legal treatment. An increase in the number of pensions is planned for honorary pensions, but also for their amount. To conclude, I stress that for the first time today there is a comprehensive draft law, which brings transparency to all collective management organisations for the benefit of the public interest. The four to five articles of Law 2121/1993 are replaced by an entire law, i.e. almost fifty five articles. For the first time, arrangements for combating piracy are in place, while the rest of Europe has already taken important steps in this area. Provisions for the first time are in place to achieve a balance in the area of public performance in music. For the first time, the operation of the EPA is regulated, which now operates as a collective management organisation with control by its members. All four points constitute innovations and a breakthrough to copyright, together with transparency, accountability and control, ensure in this bill a new era of copyright. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u613	Thank you, too. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Association of the management of intellectual property rights and related rights, the granting of multi-territorial licences for online use of musical works and other matters within the competence of the Ministry of Culture and Sport". Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u614	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u615	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u616	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u617	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u618	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u619	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u620	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u621	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u622	Consequently, the Law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: “Collection of intellectual property rights and related rights, the granting of multi-territorial licences for online use of musical works and other matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Culture and Sport” was accepted in the first place by a majority. We are entering the vote on articles and amendments and they will be voted on separately. Does this House accept Rule 1 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u623	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u624	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u625	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u626	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u627	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u628	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u629	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u630	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u631	Article 1 was therefore accepted as being majority. Can Article 2, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u632	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u633	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u634	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u635	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u636	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u637	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u638	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u639	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u640	Article 2 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can Article 3, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u641	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u642	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u643	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u644	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u645	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u646	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u647	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u648	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u649	Article 3 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 4, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u650	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u651	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u652	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u653	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u654	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u655	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u656	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u657	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u658	Article 4 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 5 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u659	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u660	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u661	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u662	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u663	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u664	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u665	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u666	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u667	Article 5 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 6 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u668	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u669	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u670	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u671	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u672	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u673	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u674	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u675	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u676	Article 6 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 7 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u677	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u678	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u679	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u680	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u681	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u682	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u683	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u684	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u685	Article 7 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Article 8 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u686	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u687	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u688	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u689	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u690	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u691	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u692	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u693	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u694	Article 8 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can Article 9, as amended by the Minister, be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u695	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u696	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u697	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u698	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u699	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u700	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u701	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u702	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u703	Article 9 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 10 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u704	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u705	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u706	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u707	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u708	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u709	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u710	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u711	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u712	Article 10 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 11 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u713	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u714	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u715	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u716	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u717	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u718	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u719	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u720	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u721	Article 11 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 12 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u722	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u723	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u724	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u725	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u726	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u727	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u728	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u729	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u730	Article 12 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 13 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u731	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u732	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u733	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u734	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u735	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u736	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u737	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u738	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u739	Article 13 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 14 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u740	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u741	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u742	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u743	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u744	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u745	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u746	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u747	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u748	Article 14 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 15 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u749	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u750	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u751	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u752	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u753	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u754	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u755	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u756	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u757	Article 15 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 16 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u758	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u759	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u760	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u761	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u762	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u763	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u764	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u765	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u766	Article 16 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 17 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u767	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u768	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u769	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u770	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u771	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u772	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u773	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u774	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u775	Article 17 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 18 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u776	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u777	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u778	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u779	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u780	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u781	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u782	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u783	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u784	Article 18 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 19 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u785	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u786	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u787	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u788	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u789	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u790	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u791	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u792	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u793	Article 19 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 20 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u794	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u795	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u796	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u797	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u798	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u799	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u800	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u801	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u802	Article 20 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 21 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u803	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u804	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u805	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u806	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u807	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u808	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u809	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u810	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u811	Article 21 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 22 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u812	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u813	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u814	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u815	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u816	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u817	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u818	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u819	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u820	Article 22 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 23 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u821	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u822	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u823	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u824	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u825	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u826	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u827	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u828	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u829	Article 23 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 24 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u830	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u831	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u832	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u833	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u834	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u835	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u836	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u837	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u838	Article 24 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 25 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u839	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u840	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u841	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u842	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u843	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u844	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u845	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u846	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u847	Article 25 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 26 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u848	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u849	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u850	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u851	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u852	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u853	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u854	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u855	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u856	Article 26 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 27 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u857	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u858	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u859	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u860	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u861	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u862	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u863	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u864	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u865	Article 27 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 28 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u866	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u867	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u868	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u869	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u870	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u871	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u872	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u873	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u874	Article 28 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 29 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u875	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u876	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u877	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u878	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u879	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u880	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u881	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u882	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u883	Article 29 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 30 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u884	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u885	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u886	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u887	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u888	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u889	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u890	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u891	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u892	Article 30 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 31 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u893	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u894	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u895	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u896	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u897	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u898	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u899	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u900	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u901	Article 31 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 32 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u902	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u903	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u904	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u905	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u906	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u907	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u908	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u909	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u910	Article 32 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept Rule 33 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u911	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u912	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u913	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u914	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u915	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u916	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u917	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u918	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u919	Article 33 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 34 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u920	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u921	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u922	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u923	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u924	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u925	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u926	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u927	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u928	Article 34 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 35 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u929	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u930	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u931	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u932	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u933	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u934	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u935	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u936	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u937	Article 35 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 36 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u938	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u939	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u940	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u941	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u942	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u943	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u944	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u945	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u946	Article 36 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 37 be taken as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u947	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u948	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u949	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u950	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u951	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u952	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u953	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u954	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u955	Article 37 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does this House accept Rule 38 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u956	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u957	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u958	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u959	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u960	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u961	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u962	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u963	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u964	Article 38 was therefore accepted as being majority. Will Rule 39 be accepted in its entirety?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u965	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u966	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u967	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u968	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u969	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u970	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u971	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u972	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u973	Article 39 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 40 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u974	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u975	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u976	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u977	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u978	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u979	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u980	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u981	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u982	Article 40 has therefore been accepted as majority. Does this House accept Rule 41 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u983	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u984	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u985	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u986	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u987	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u988	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u989	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u990	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u991	Article 41 has therefore been accepted as majority. Will Rule 42 be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u992	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u993	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u994	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u995	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u996	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u997	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u998	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u999	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1000	Article 42 was therefore accepted as a majority. Will Rule 43 be accepted, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1001	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1002	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1003	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1004	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1005	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1006	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1007	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1008	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1009	Article 43 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Will Rule 44 be accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1010	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1011	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1012	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1013	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1014	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1015	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1016	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1017	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1018	Article 44 was therefore accepted as being majority. Article 45 shall be withdrawn and the following Articles shall be renumbered. Can the House accept the new Rule 45, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1019	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1020	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1021	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1022	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1023	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1024	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1025	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1026	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1027	The new Article 45 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can the House accept the new Rule 46, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1028	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1029	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1030	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1031	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1032	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1033	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1034	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1035	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1036	The new Article 46 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept Rule 47 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1037	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1038	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1039	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1040	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1041	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1042	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1043	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1044	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1045	The new Article 47, therefore, was accepted as it is by a majority. Can the House accept the new Rule 48, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1046	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1047	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1048	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1049	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1050	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1051	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1052	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1053	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1054	The new Article 48 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Asked by this House: is the new Article 49 accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1055	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1056	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1057	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1058	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1059	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1060	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1061	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1062	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1063	The new Article 49 therefore has been accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Article 50, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1064	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1065	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1066	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1067	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1068	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1069	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1070	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1071	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1072	The new Article 50 has therefore been accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can the House accept the new Article 51, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1073	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1074	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1075	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1076	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1077	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1078	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1079	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1080	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1081	The new Article 51 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does the House accept the new Article 52 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1082	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1083	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1084	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1085	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1086	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1087	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1088	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1089	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1090	The new Article 52 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Article 53, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1091	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1092	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1093	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1094	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1095	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1096	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1097	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1098	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1099	The new Article 53 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Can the House accept the new Article 54, as amended by the Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1100	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1101	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1102	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1103	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1104	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1105	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1106	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1107	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1108	The new Article 54 was therefore accepted, as amended by the Minister, by a majority vote. Does this House accept the new Article 55 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1109	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1110	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1111	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1112	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1113	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1114	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1115	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1116	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1117	The new Article 55 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House accept the new Article 56 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1118	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1119	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1120	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1121	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1122	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1123	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1124	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1125	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1126	The new Article 56 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 57 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1127	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1128	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1129	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1130	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1131	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1132	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1133	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1134	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1135	The new Article 57 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 58 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1136	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1137	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1138	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1139	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1140	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1141	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1142	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1143	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1144	The new Article 58 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Article 59 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1145	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1146	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1147	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1148	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1149	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1150	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1151	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1152	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1153	The new Article 59 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Article 60 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1154	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1155	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1156	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1157	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1158	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1159	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1160	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1161	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1162	The new Article 60 was therefore accepted as a majority. Can the House accept the new Article 61 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1163	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1164	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1165	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1166	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1167	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1168	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1169	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1170	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1171	The new Article 61 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House accept the new Article 62 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1172	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1173	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1174	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1175	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1176	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1177	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1178	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1179	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1180	The new Article 62 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 63 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1181	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1182	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1183	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1184	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1185	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1186	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1187	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1188	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1189	The new Article 63 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 64 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1190	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1191	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1192	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1193	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1194	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1195	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1196	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1197	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1198	The new Article 64 was therefore accepted as being majority. Does the House accept Rule 65 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1199	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1200	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1202	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1203	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1204	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1205	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1206	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1207	The new Article 65 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 66 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1208	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1209	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1210	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1211	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1212	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1213	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1214	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1215	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1216	The new Article 66 was therefore accepted as it is majority. Does this House accept the new Article 67 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1217	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1218	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1219	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1220	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1221	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1222	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1223	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1224	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1225	The new Article 67 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 68 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1226	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1227	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1228	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1229	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1230	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1231	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1232	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1233	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1234	The new Article 68 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept the new Article 69 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1235	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1236	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1237	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1238	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1239	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1240	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1241	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1242	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1243	The new Article 69 was therefore accepted as a majority. Asked by this House: is the new Article 70 accepted as such?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1244	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1245	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1246	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1247	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1248	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1249	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1250	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1251	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1252	The new Article 70 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does this House accept Rule 71 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1253	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1254	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1255	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1256	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1257	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1258	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1259	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1260	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1261	The new Article 71 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 72 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1262	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1263	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1264	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1265	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1266	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1267	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1268	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1269	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1270	The new Article 72 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 73 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1271	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1272	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1273	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1274	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1275	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1276	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1277	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1278	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1279	The new Article 73 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept Rule 74 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1280	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1281	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1282	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1283	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1284	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1285	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1286	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1287	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1288	The new Article 74 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 75 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1289	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1290	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1291	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1292	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1293	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1294	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1295	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1296	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1297	The new Article 75 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House accept the new Article 76 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1298	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1299	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1300	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1301	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1302	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1303	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1304	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1305	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1306	The new Article 76 was therefore accepted as a majority. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 1096 and a special number of 29?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1307	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1308	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1309	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1310	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1311	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1312	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1313	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1314	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1315	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 1096 and a special 29 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1097 and a specialist of 30?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1316	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1317	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1318	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1319	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1320	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1321	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1322	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1323	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1324	Therefore, the amendment under a general number of 1097 and a specialist of 30 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Does the House agree that the amendment is accepted under a general number of 1098 and a special number of 31 as it stands?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1325	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1326	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1327	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1328	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1329	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1330	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1331	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1332	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1333	The amendment under a general number of 1098 and a special 31 was therefore accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. Is the amendment accepted under a general number of 1100 and a special number of 33?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1334	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1335	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1336	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1337	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1338	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1339	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1340	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1341	Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1342	Therefore, the amendment with a general number of 1100 and a special 33 was accepted as it is majority and is part of the bill as the same article. We are entering the vote of the nominee. Asked by this House: Can the hotel article be accepted?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1343	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1344	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1345	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1346	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1347	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1348	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1349	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1350	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1351	The Chamber of Deputies has been accepted by a majority. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Collective management of intellectual property rights and related rights, grant of multi-territorial licences for online use of musical works and other matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Culture and Sport’ was accepted in principle and on articles. We move on to vote on the bill and on the whole. Asked by this House: is the bill accepted as a whole?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1352	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1353	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1354	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1355	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1356	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1357	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1358	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1359	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1360	The bill was also accepted by a majority in the total. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: ‘Collective management of intellectual property rights and related rights, grant of multi-territorial licences for online use of musical works and other matters of responsibility of the Ministry of Culture and Sport’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1361	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1362	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-07-13-S1-commons.u1363	With the consent of the House at 20.51' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 14 July 2017, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
