ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The third question will be discussed with number 574/7-3-2017, the first question of the Member of Parliament's Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning workers and self-employed persons with service permits. The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mr. Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos has the floor to develop his question for two minutes. You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Finally, Minister, we were able to discuss this timely question after a long time. Of course, it's never too late. What's the point? That through the process and the Katorugalou Act on substance we have led to the complete unification of the social nature of insurance and now to become individual responsibility in the context of payroll through the increase in working time, the enormous increases in employee contributions, the reduction in pensions and benefits, the exemption on the substance of the State and the employer from the so-called non-wage cost and, of course, the huge reduction in the rate of replacement. Today it is not inappropriate to say that two-thirds of the income of the self-employed is contributions and taxation. Self-employed people are asked to pay 38% of their income for insurance, so that many of them are uninsured, book closed and taxed to 60%. Even unemployed people are obliged to pay EUR 2,800 a year, while the CRL is now moving on and on foreclosure of amounts owed less than EUR 5,000. On the substance, and with your policy, and with the various circulars, you are legalising this illegal status of the service card for those with a block, as it has been established to be called, and it is also turning it into an official form of subordinated work, rather than prohibiting it. You are actually flying the ball into the workers to prove that they are not elephants, that is to say, to prove that they are not employees. And you understand very well the pressures and blackmails that are being exercised by the employer. In fact, there are also draft contracts prepared by employers, by the large groups, to prevent these workers from being considered as workers and not to demand the employer's contribution. This is not only the private individuals but also ELSTAT, as it has been denounced, so that this five-year salary is reduced by 20%. As a Communist Party of Greece, what we are asking in the timely question is if the government is thinking, something we do not believe, withdrawing the Katrugalos law - that is, the aim of the workers' movement - and what measures you will take to abolish the informal form of wage labour, i.e. those with blocks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u3	Thank you Mr Karathanasopoulos, MP of the Communist Party of Greece. Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has the floor for his protagonist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Karathanasopoulos, your interest in workers working in condition of work in reality, but this relationship was concealed in the nature of the free worker denoting the so-called 'blocks', is a problem that we wanted to address. So from the point of view of incentives we are on the same starting point. You, too, are asking us to legislate on this provision. The question of whether this provision will have positive effects is something to be judged. We are interested in dealing with the hidden worker's cloak, dependent work, because it is not only the contributions that were actually transferring to the employee through this invention of the free worker under the cloak of the businessman with a blockage, but it is that he also lost other rights. He was entitled to compensation for other additional benefits to be paid by employees. You need to recognise in this choice of the regulation of employment called 'block' such an intention, namely, to deal with a situation which was expanding into the market, a phenomenon which led to even cleaners seeing contractors, to have a generalization of this phenomenon, which led to the circumvention of labour rights. That is why, and no one else who has led us to this legislation, and we also expect employers to support this provision for this kind of undeclared work, because it actually distorts the market in general, damages healthy businesses and not just labour rights, and we are ultimately leading to a dismantling of labour relations which does not benefit the economy. For the sake of our legislative responsibility, therefore, we have considered that we are giving a tool to stop this situation from happening and create problems in the economy and business sector. Of course, it is in the hands of the trade unions that this provision can be used more effectively to deal with this phenomenon in its practical implementation. And so we will deal with this. The provision does not mean that it legalises this situation. The opposite succeeds. Success will also depend on how we use this arrangement if we use it as a tool for revealing the wage earner's work rather than covering it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Karathanasopoulos has the floor for his denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u6	Of course, Minister, I have not come to have a general debate on what it means to work on a block. It is what you have said and much more. Flexibility in the labour market, the abolition of stable employment relationships, all these issues are based on the logic of supporting the competitiveness and profitability of the capitalist groups. And in that sense, you contribute with your policy, accepting, on the one hand, the legislative framework of the previous governments and, on the other, extending it and moving it forward and, on the other hand, taking a step further, such as the insurance law, the Katorugalou law, as it has left. From this point of view, we do not commit a trial of intent. We're judging the facts. And what you do is not only forbid this form of atypical wage earner, but instead you legalize it by your provision. And, Minister, the effectiveness of this provision has already been judged. It has been judged by the threats that workers with a blockade by employers, or will sign a contract in which they are not employees, and that they are freelance professionals, or otherwise that contribution will be transferred to their wages, in order to reduce even further their wages. And here, even in businesses, companies, which do not belong to the private sector, ELSTAT, for example, which is an independent authority, you know very well that the workers in order to be able to provide services, must sign a responsible declaration that they are not part of this provision, that they are employees and will not claim the employer's contribution. Even in ELSTAT, how much in the private sector! And from this point of view, only funny is the claim that employers will support this process, your own policy. But what employers want, the big business groups are precisely not to have built-in labour rights, not to have real wage earners, in substance, with full-time employment, with full-time and insurance rights. That is why they are trying to "deal" everything that is left. And with the new regulations that are going to bring about the labour market, there will be even greater problems. And yet, despite the fact that there is this situation in work with service cards or the self-employed, you with your policy and with insurance law, instead of facilitating these workers, are putting them in new carpets, increasing insurance contributions, reducing their pensions. And what are you actually doing? Either you turn them into black labor workers and uninsured workers or you lead them to closing books. And so the conditions are created for an even greater increase in scientists leaving abroad. This is the result of your policy, Minister. And from this point of view, in the specific things that we ask you as a JRC not only you do nothing, but on the contrary you are moving in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. The reason is the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos, to answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u8	You've made a wrong interpretation of the law. The intentions are what I told you, but the law in no way declassifies the employment relationship. If, in fact, it is a dependent employment relationship, the judgment in any case is not limited by the relevant provision of Law No.4387. What we wanted to do is bring about a real employee with reliance - and not a free trader - the option to pay 9.22% on the earnings instead of 26.95% which would otherwise arise if it were treated by the system as an insured free trader. We had to make this provision so that we could put it into practice, otherwise those people who show up on a block should pay 26.95% on their income. We wanted to prevent this from happening, and we have given them a chance to gain that right, to pay 9.22% and build on that opportunity that we are giving them the rest of their working rights. Therefore, Mr Karathanasopoulos, see in this provision the opportunity for workers to achieve the enjoyment of their rights and not a provision in which the Communist Party of Greece must oppose. Take advantage of her. It could be said that perhaps it could be better. We wanted to give the economy the opportunity to get businesses to come and solve this. You are right to say that there will be no businessmen who will deal with this. I am not saying that everyone will be in a hurry to deal with this, as we hoped,. But they will know, firstly, that through this procedure they will be called upon to pay fines and surcharges, since they employ people with dependent labour in reality - so it will be the consequence that they will be charged - and secondly, as I have said before, the pleasure or pursuit of a right by employees does not in any way justify the right to terminate the contract by the employer. Any dismissal would be invalid for such a reason. You must support this, too, as a legal position in the last decades that has been conquered in the courts. Knowing those who take the opportunity to dismiss this case that they will be in trouble, they will not benefit if they resort to the means of denounce the contract of employment against the person who exercised the right under the law. From this point of view, therefore, I would like you to recognise the positive effects of this regulation, no matter how much one could add in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u9	But, Minister, the case of the abolition of atypical work is not a matter of court or law, it is a political matter and the government does not take the political responsibility to abolish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u10	Without any hesitation, I will say that the government's position is that such employment relationships are working relationships and we know very well that they are being created under pressure of unemployment and economic conditions, they are illegal and that they will be dealt with. They are not covered and are not legalised by the provision. They're revealed by the device. That's our position.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. We move to the second with number 551/2-3-2017, a top-level question from the Member of Parliament, Aetolakronas of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the "degrade of the services of the Single Social Security Agency (EFKA) of Nafpaktos". The timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u12	Minister, I carry the desperation and indignation of my compatriots, who once again feel that Nafpakia is degrading. Minister, with your decision the IKA Nafpaktos, the OAE and, more generally, the services of the FAO Nafpaktos are downgrading, and indeed the EVA Nafpaktos, from an address to a decentralised social security department. Its responsibilities are transferred to the EBRD, except for a minimum of exceptions, thus creating a deterioration in Nafpacia and the Gift and suffering for the citizens. Citizens, institutions and businesses are at a dead end. Recycling prevails in the Federation of Professionals and Traders, the Associations, the Naval and Doridos Workers' Center, the local administration of both the Naval and the Dori. And all this because? Because you have decided without any consultation, with'so I want', to abolish the address of the Nafpaktos. Let me tell you, then, that in the Municipality of Nafpatia there are five former capodist municipalities together and three municipalities in the mountainous Nafpatia, - the Municipality of Platanos, the Municipality of Desertia, the Municipality of Pyleni - which you, by this decision, put into adventure, suffering and financial burden. The distances are very long, and the road network is in a bad state, especially for the citizens of mountain Napatia. Minister, it is a good question why you are promoting this change when the services of the EFCA in Nafpaton have a private building. They serve citizens and businessmen beyond the Napatia and the neighbouring municipality of Dodas. Many industrial, craft and tourist enterprises are located in the municipality of Dorios, which are of course served by the services of EFKA Nafpaktos. For the mountainous Nafplatia with the completion of the Ionian and Olympia Road, further growth is being promoted. At the same time I would like to make you aware that the Municipality of Nafpatia has a larger number of employers and members of the Municipality of Messology, which you have not taken into account. Minister, I do not understand either myself or the local society of Napathias and of the Doada, what was that reason that forced you, without any evaluation and no costing, without any consultation, to make that decision. So I ask you: Firstly, what criteria have the proposed organogram of EVA been drawn up, which naturally undermines Nafpacia? Secondly, what is the public's benefit from the changes that you are proposing, which is more important than the suffering and expense of the citizens of the Napathias and the donor? Finally, Minister, I ask you if you intend to revise your harmful decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Constantopoulos. The floor is held by the Deputy Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Anastasios Petropoulos for three minutes, to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Constantopoulos, we must not trigger conflicts between local populations. This is the best we can do, especially when it comes to a project that aspires to serve the insured, the citizens in general, from whatever point they work, where they live. In the sense that you ask, many other cities in the country with the same arguments you make and you would say "I want a single Social Security Agency shop". First of all, the criteria in the organisation are scientifically established in terms of the more effective service of the insured. Less important - but that is also important - is the costs we are spending on the operation of the single social security institution. The cost of the facilities in Nafpaton 3.5 thousand, 2.5 thousand in Messolong. But that is not, of course, the criterion. You're asking me why there wasn't an address in Nafpatto. That's the problem right now, why didn't we get an address in Nafpatto? Or should we make an address in every city covered by the Single Social Security Body? I said it and repeat it here and here: The service from the main space in the city of Nafpaktos that we will choose will continue to be provided. Services shall not be abolished. So if the issue is just a formal one, who has the address and who has no address, I do not think it is a matter that should be of concern to us, when our aim is to build a social security institution, which provides services where every citizen works, where he lives, that is to say through the efka.gov.gr, which already provides electronic services and improves them continuously. He already sees his information through the system. It is already insured for health and care, with the information that is electronically recorded for all citizens in the health care and medical care system. That's what we see. That's what's important to succeed, not if the Naval is called the Insurance Department, instead of the Messologist, and so on. It doesn't matter who's called an address. The important thing is that the services, not downgraded but upgraded, will be provided to all the insured and everywhere, from all points of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Constantopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, first of all, I had no intention of triggering local communities and local populations. Just, Minister, you triggered local communities and local populations with your decision, a decision that puts Nafpaktia and the Doris adventure and daily suffering the citizens of Nafpath and Dorido. Minister, if the proposed establishment plan of the ECA finally enters into force, the citizens of Napathias are forced to go to Messolongi and Agrini on a daily basis for the services of the ECA. In practical terms, this means that they will bear an excessive cost of moving and, indeed, in a difficult financial period. This is because the Nafplatte is from the Mesolongaghi forty - five kilometers and eighty - five kilometers from the Agrinio. And the former capodist municipalities of Mount Naypattia are more distant, such as the Municipality of Platanos, which is a hundred miles from Mesolonghi and a hundred and forty-five kilometers from Agrini, the former Municipality of Desertia, a hundred miles from Mesolonghi and a hundred and fifty kilometers from Agrini, the former Municipality of Pylini, ninety kilometers from Mesolonghi and thirty kilometers from Agrini. Also, with your decision, the citizens of the Gift are referred to the Services of the FBI of Amphissa, resulting in serious travel expenses and enormous suffering, even putting their lives at risk in the streets. I note that Amphissa is 100 kilometers away from the Gift. Minister, this decision leads you to administrative weakening of regional services. You lead to administrative weakening of regional services, because you do not give them responsibilities. Your logic turns out to be sloppy. No upgrades are achieved. No modernisation is achieved. There is no reduction in the operating costs of the public administration. All that is achieved is the burden of citizens and bureaucracy. Minister, all the above is required, if anything, to consult local bodies, professional craftsmen, the federation of professional craftsmen, the professional centre, local government, the TEI, the associations and associations of professionals and workers. On behalf of them, I am tabling a resolution from the Federation of Professional, Craft and Commercial Associations of Naval and Doridos, a decision from the Municipal Council of Napathias, a resolution from the Chamber of Aetolokarnania, a decision from the Naval and Doridos Labour Center. I'm presenting their decisions to you. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, presents for the minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Their request is one and common: continued operation of the NAVA with all its structures and with all its functions, for what? To help the citizens. The same, of course, state the association of architects and engineers and the local organizations of the parties, and of your party, of SYRIZA. That's their request. Accept all of us's request. Don't put Nafpacia and the Ball Adventure. Don't charge them financially. Don't cause them any more problems in the crisis we're facing. Allow insured persons to have a smooth access to the services of the State. Minister, for all these things, we hope you understand. We are asking, Minister, for understanding. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too. The speech is made by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, Mr. Petropoulos, for his second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u18	I do understand, in fact, that after you have suggested me to understand that we need to inform the local communities. We must do that and we will continue to do so, Mr Constantopoulos. Because, otherwise, we want to zero the distance from EVKA as long as it takes to type effka.gov.gr and submit your relevant request and have the relevant answer. We want to eliminate the time for the adoption of pension decisions so that, when the whole of the N.4387 system works in full, that is, it is digitized and we have the insured person's insurance time in the system computerized, his pension will come out within the same month. Then, indeed, it can happen. This is an annihilation of both time and distance. If we do not organise on the new foundation a corded social security system that faces old diseases and creates possibilities to serve the insured person, we will never achieve it. Why don't we start now and leave it for later? We consider that we do not have time to lose such rights, because people even from the extreme end of Doris and Napathias, to go to Nafpatto, may want two days in some cases. It therefore does not serve to maintain the situation as it stands and I must inform the institutions about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u19	The state won nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u20	What we are doing - to explain once again - is that we are not going to close the Nafpaktos Services. They will work along with the improvements and rapid progress we will have in the system of e-services for insured persons. So no one has anything to lose, despite the title. It won't be called an address. It will be called Address Mesolonghi, the sacred city of Messology, for historical reasons, will be called Address Agrinio, due to size and as the capital of the county. I don't think the Navals will be bothered because it's not gonna be called an address. What will bother them - and I am sure it will bother the insured - is because they do not have a quick service, because they are late in retirement because they are late to take the single one, because they have all these problems in the services that they want to be direct and friendly to every insured person. That bothers them, that's what bothers us, and that's what we're going to achieve. We won't have to confront ourselves because they won't have the address in Nafpatto and they'll have him next door in the Messolonghi.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u21	Minister, what you're saying is not true.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Constantopoulos, you don't have the floor. We move on to the first question under number 3025/31-1-2017 - the cycle of petitions and questions - from the MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on 'new pension cuts for pensioners, farmers and not, who are employed on farms'. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor to develop your question in two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I am pleased, Minister, because you referred to the work of digitising insurance life, only you didn't tell us why it was interrupted by the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour in the first period of 2015, because otherwise it would have actually been delivered since October 2016 the whole digitalised files with insurance life and thus would have been much easier to issue pensions. To come to the subject of the question that we have dealt with before. So far, from the debate we have had, what has been cleared up is Article 20 of Law No4387, which was passed in May 2016, on the employment of pensioners. Since he is a retired person before May 2016 and has undertaken work or service before him, no change takes place, only that is what you have to do, as you have said, a circular that has to come out for this purpose. The issue is now - and the whole world is confused - what applies to pensioners after May 2016, those who retire after May 2016, or those who have any change in their work or activity that they undertake after May 2016. We have supported, in particular, the pensioners after May 2016 and those who will take office after May 2016 - let the first pension condition be not applicable - that there should be legislation, since the Ministry's will is to relieve them of the 60% reduction in their pensions in case - we concentrate it - agricultural income or subsidy, not in general and vaguely. We've made that clear. For other insurance, of course, this cut that you have put into the law of 60% applies. In particular, therefore, for agricultural income or a subsidy for pensioners after May 2016. Do you intend to bring this legislation in which, in our view, it is necessary? Will you solve this in another way and who? However, you must solve this in a short time, immediately, because, as I said last time, this period of transfer of rights or anything else is crucial to these people, since of course they have that possibility. I would ask that we have clear answers in order to inform the interested parties, namely the people concerned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr Petropoulos, Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, has the floor for answering his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u25	Maybe this is the fifth time you've asked me. I have answered to you that farmers who retired until 31 December 2016 - because farmers joined the ECA 1-1-2017 - have no effect on their pension, since they continue their activities as farmers. If they develop an activity in another economic area, i.e. if they open up a supermarket or develop business, then it is understood that they will fall under the provision for the cut-offs. Therefore, pensioners up to 31 December 2016 will not have any cut-off for their own activity, agricultural, livestock or fisheries, as well as in the case where they receive aid on the basis of their rights until that time. That's clear. So he was treated by the OGA, so he is now treated by EFKA 1-1-2017. So the period from 1-1-2017 remains. I have said about this period - and I am saying straight away - that there is no reason to speed up the pension procedure unless it is chosen, because we are in a process of study. We are talking, but unfortunately there is no organised representative of farmers, because there is a division in the field of agriculture, whether farmers have to maintain and the right to pension, or whether they have to lose it by reducing the rate of 60%. Indeed, I am in a difficult position to come up with in this respect. In the next period, I think we will also find a definitive solution to this issue. I am sure that, whatever we decide on this, there will be those who protest. We need to see about what's going on and what's best for the rural world, because farmers want to be better able to organise agricultural production, transfer the farms to the younger generations, get younger people to take the place of older people and develop better productions in the agricultural and livestock sectors. It is also what is related to the organisation of production that concerns us. I'm honestly saying that. Because, indeed, the rural world is listening, it knows that what I am saying at the moment also echoes its own concerns.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Deputy Minister Anastasios Petropoulos. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it will be necessary - if you count them - to come five and six times, because it is not just the pensioners who you have given me this thought last time. What I told you is to decide soon. June, which is the version of the OGA pensions, is close and you need to make your decisions. They are all other pensioners, after 13 May 2016, who had a minimum agricultural income and a small subsidy and who do not know whether after retirement - they are considered new pensioners - will have a 60% cut in pension. We for these reasons, because they are small owners and small farmers - if we can say an allowance, but they are not, they are small aids, they are enjoying and they are not going to cultivate this land by another professional farmer, because they are small parcels - we have the will, we have the place and we say that they must be exempted, like the previous pensioners for agricultural products, from the obligation, first of all, of 60% of the'mortem', but also from the obligation to provide insurance. Because the OGA regulation so far does not allow insurance for this income. So we should see whether the OGA regulation, which according to the law, applies until 2021, is still in force, I think. If this is the case, then they must be relieved. However, in order to make the will and the law very clear and not to come back a long time after the Court of Auditors has asked for pensions back, we will have to make that clear now. So you ask: are pensioners of other funds (Ka, Public, OAU) who joined the ECA, retired after May 2016 and have a small agricultural income, which they maintain, and a small subsidy will have the 60% cut? That is the second question. The other question you did say - and we understand it - that you will later make a decision according to agricultural policy. It's a specific question. Let me tell you that I also saw in the law that the protection of Article 36 of Law 2676/99 continues. I looked into it. There's been a mistake in the law. I don't know if he's been corrected by an EKT. Article 36 concerns a committee. It's irrelevant. It is Article 63 relating to the insurance of pensioners under Law 2676, which I have. However, Mr No.4387 refers to the wrong article and it needs to be corrected and regulated. I think you should make it or come to it on Wednesday when we are discussing the bill to which we have tabled an amendment, which regulates the question of the self-government for which you are willing in this direction. It is Amendment No 957 and Amendment No 68, which I will give you in order to keep in mind. If it solves the issue, you will be able to accept it in order to provide a solution to this issue and to the question of pensioners working in positions responsible, on a fee basis, for the general government. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The State Secretary, Mr Petropoulos, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u29	Mr Kegeroglu, I do not think there is any need for an amendment on this matter. I think so! If necessary, I have no objection to adopting your proposal. Not even for the self-government needs it. Because first of all, the law refers to activities undertaken for the first time after the start of the law. Secondly, with regard to other insured persons who are not farmers and who are retired - they were pensioned, this is what you are referring to, and I am extending the time limit until 31 December 2016, because this is what I think is the right approach to the legal issue - they have the same way, as are those who are mostly farmers, those who have retired anyway from the Agricultural Insurance Agency. Another is the question of the person who is active for the first time after receiving his pension. If this insured has land purchased agricultural land, which is a profitable activity for many, not only because of subsidies and subsidies, but also because there is activity organised that may be profitable - we know a lot of our fellow citizens who have such activities, who give them far greater benefit than their main profession - if they have such an activity after that, then they have a reduction. If, however, they had the cultivation before retirement, the law speaks of activities undertaken afterward. Of course, for those who had other activities - other than farmers, because since 1 January 2017 they joined the ECA, this is our legal position in terms of law - because, anyway, to get a pension, you had to shut down the books, stop acting - either as a freelance professional, either as a doctor or as a lawyer, you had to shut down your books to get a pension - what still applies. Therefore, it has no cut in the pension that the insured person who was retired by 31 December 2016 and had agricultural, livestock, fishery production before retirement in the way that farmers are not affected. This is the right position on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u30	Thank you to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the House that the first with number 563/6-3-2017 a timely question for the second cycle of the New Democracy MP, Christos Bukokouros, to the Minister for the Interior, on the granting of housing aid for damage to the Municipality of Alonissos, will not be discussed due to lack of competence. Also, the fourth question under number 544/28-2-2017, with regard to the problems of contract workers in cleaning at the National Technical University of Athens, Christos Katsotis, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the MEP. The tenth under number 513/21-2-2017, a topical question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the reconstructing of the Labour Housing and Labour Housing Organisations, will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Member of Parliament in question. We continue with the third under No 535/24-2-2017 topical question of the second question of the Parliamentary Evros of New Democracy Mr Anastasios Prussakis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on the establishment of a Port Academy in Alexandroupolis. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy Mr. Nektarios Santorinios. Mr. Prussakis, you have the floor for two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister of State, on 28 June 2016, I tabled a timely question and asked the then Minister for Maritime Affairs to tell us whether the Government is planning to go ahead with the establishment of a Port Academy and whether it will have a seat in Alexandroupolis, of course, calling for a commitment from the Greek state to the Alexandroupilis, but also to all the Jews and Thraceans. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Shipping has constantly postponed the debate, so that months will pass. But his replacement with the last remodeling came and I expected you to be sufficiently informed to update this timely question by tabling it again. On January 12, 2017, I submitted it and ask you to inform us what your plans are with regard to the headquarters of the Port Academy under which you will establish an Officers' School, the School of Officials, the Port Guards School in matching the one that the Greek Police and the Fire Department has. Because, as you know, the establishment of the Port Academy in Alexandroupolis was decided in 2000. The procedures and local bodies suggested to the Ministerial Council that an area of forty acres should be granted to the best area of Alexandroupolis near the sea and between two ports, namely the centre of Alexandroupolis and the district of Macris. All the necessary and preparatory steps have been taken, but unfortunately this decision has not been implemented until now. Because you have already submitted and consulted the new law of your Ministry, Article 58 of which you are planning to establish the Port Academy, we ask what the seat of the Port Academy is, which you will establish by a law that you will surely deposit in the near future, and if there is another city in Greece under the same conditions as Alexandroupolis currently has. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, General. Mr Nektarios Santorinios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. In fact, as you have said, the previous governments have actually promised since 2000 the establishment of the Port Academy in Alexandroupolis, but a process that, as you know, never progressed satisfactorily. In April 2002, the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy was granted a large number of areas in Alexandroupolis, as you said, forty-eight acres. But, since then, this declaration has been through a number of stages: a study has been commissioned by the CED and indeed a lot of money, as you know, 400,000 euros for consultants in 2002. It became the first phase of the competition. Then they changed the footage to be made by PPP. But, never, as you know, many years ago did not take a particular form. The work on the substance has never matured. Obviously, I am not the one to answer what happened in the past 15 years, because we did not have the responsibility of governance. A lot has been mentioned, and there is also a relevant article Member of Parliament in the area, Mr Caisa, which says that the project has been costed by the CEN at 45 million more VAT, while in January 2004 the board of the Public Building Company approved a fee, a flat-rate fee - and this is a question - 400,000 euros for a financial advisor. As you said, and quite rightly so, the government has taken a specific political decision and this political decision is at last in the port to apply what is happening to the other Houses, that is, to introduce the candidates with a pan-Hellenic examination. We therefore consider that it can be implemented - at the lowest possible cost - within the narrow financial framework currently in existence, by the existing Schools of Testament Significant, Pedagogical Officers and Pedigree Port Guards, which will start from 2018-2019. At this stage we consider that the needs can be met by the School of Naval Testing at the General University of Piraeus, the facilities of the Port Guard School and the facilities of the Naval Naval Patterns School in Scaramaga. We do not want at this stage to risk the major one, which today is to apply the pan-Hellenic tests, because we think this is the most important one. In any case, if it is considered necessary to go to a new school, to a new academy, then we will also consider the case of Alexandroupolis and other proposals put forward. In any case, we do not find such proposals in a preri. But I must admit that no further processing has taken place, beyond what is probably lost in time. Since 2004 there has been no other move, when the competition had actually stopped. So you understand that in this case we will try to use the existing structures already in place. Potentially, if there is appropriate ground, we can see any other area and of course Alexandroupolis for a long-term design. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Prussakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u35	It is indeed a positive step that you decide to train with the Greek Police Corps, a structure which has been tested for many years and which, in the footsteps of this structure, has been followed by the Fire Corps. But I would like to tell you, Mr. Secretary, that it distinguishes you from curiosity. Because everything has to be done on time. First of all, you are setting up a very serious educational institution in the field of security bodies, and this must have a home and this country must regulate it by law, just as you will come here to plenary and ask for the plenary to be approved. On the other hand, I would like to highlight my arguments and, for historical reasons, these should be recorded. The ports of Alexandroupolis, Samothrace, Porto Lagos and the regional ports, which are of Makris, have important conditions, facilities and specifications and can be the best fields and educational tools for the new ports. Of course they also have a particular geopolitical position, and they are a natural gas pipeline area and hub with considerable prospects, bearing in mind that the well-known LNG station in Alexandroupolis also starts soon. Also, the establishment of the Port Academy in Alexandroupolis guarantees better protection for our maritime borders in a sensitive area. And you know what a sensitive area means, because you have about the same origin as the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u36	Borders.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u37	That's right. I think, therefore, that such a decision would stimulate the patriotic feeling of the Jews and, in general, the Thracians, and that our maritime area would be filled by educational vessels and on them would be young children, who would be the best ambassadors in our region. But you can now give the seat. We didn't say you could come right away. But you can open the way, make the start. We will come later - so things are things, this is our democracy - and we will finish this cycle. I want to tell you something else. Whoever listens to us will say, "But what now is Mr. Publics? In a period of economic crisis?’. Of course, that's the medicine. There are financial instruments through the European Union as well. Our maritime and land borders want protection. And they want protection from the national security authorities, which is the Greek Police and the Port Body. I think you could take advantage of the external borders, in the good sense of the term. Also, you could also use the PPP law, despite the fact that you unfortunately also have some "allergies" in this respect, than you describe many times from the Step of the House. However, I encourage you. You have time in front of you, and of course we will also discuss when you table the law in plenary. We have many arguments, Mr Secretary, which are, indeed, inconsistent. And what I'm going to tell you is that the reason is moral. Invasion against the Hebrews has cost us many years. It is an opportunity, since the Prime Minister comes and tells us that he loves us very much, to prove it with your works, with your decisions and, above all, with the legislative arrangements that are expected. You will be supporting us in a positive decision. In fact, I would like to stress that on the issues of the Members of the Port Corps I also participated in the consultation, in addition to the timely question I tabled, but also the institutional factors of the county, self-government, mayors, the mayors, the mayor of Alexandroupolis, the Vice-President of Evros, the district manager, the world is all together and thirsty for such an investment, which is really very necessary. I would like to say to you - and I will close with that, Mr President - that police schools have been set up in Thrace and indeed, with the design of the police officer, one in Xanthi, Komotini and the Dumotich. The Athens Police School in Komotini and the entire educational policy of the Greek Police as far as police troops are concerned, which is eight in number throughout the country, are being expelled from Komotini. So with a School of Greek Coast Guard in Alexandroupolis and through synergies with the police schools and through synergies with the many sections of the Democritus University of Thrace, Thrace could be a genuine pillar of education and training not only in Greece but throughout Europe. Because I want you to know that cross-border crime will never stop.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u38	Good. Thank you, Mr. Treasury.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u39	We have the best field of training. We have island borders, we have maritime borders, we have river borders, we have a strict land border with a deterrent. All the officials of the police of Europe and the port authorities of the European Union would like to be trained in this area. I propose this to you, and indeed to you as your good rapporteur. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, General. Mr Nektarios Santorinios has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Prison, it's true that you've opened a lot of issues. But you will allow me not to go into all these issues, because the President will also fight us. First of all, I welcome Rule 58 and the pan-Hellenic examinations for the Port House. I think that, having the police's knowledge, that's what makes you agree, and that's good.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u42	And it must not be disturbed at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u43	Obviously. However, do not speak of clandestineness, Mr Prussakis, particularly on this issue that started in 2000 with a promise and the first action took place in 2002, and the last action took place in 2004, and it has disappeared since then - and I would say that it is coming back - from you and the Evros authorities. Because this proves the inconsistency of the previous governments. You're not in a position to accuse us of sloppy. We have chosen to do what we said at the outset: in the best way, the most economic way, in the context of the budgetary conditions, bring the pan-Hellenic examinations and finally do the introduction to the Port House of Deserts, because so far - you will allow me to say - perhaps this criterion has not been the case. From there on, I fully respect what you say that Alexandroupolis could be a good field of training for the new port guards and the new ports, as well as other areas that you mentioned, such as the eastern Aegean border. This will be taken into account at a later stage, where we will need additional schools to train our staff. We will not, however, protect our borders with pedigree porters, editors and editors. We are protecting our borders, Mr. Prussakis, by managing the services in Evros, managing the services in the Aegean Sea, strengthening the services where there really is need. And that's what we did. We have brought completeness to the Port House, we have brought completeness - and you know it very well - above all at our borders. We're not content with ruffles, bring from here and there people. We are first commanding the Port Corps at the border and then anywhere else. I think this has to do with consistency and with regard to the prosecution of crime - as you mentioned - but also with regard to the protection of our maritime borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, Mr. Nektarios Santorinios. Let us inform the House that the first with number 562/6-3-2017, a top-level question by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prussias Prussias, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the "delays in the completion of the vertical road of the Nea Egnatia Road of Astranios - Ormenios", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr Christos Spirtzis. Also, the second question by number 572-7-3-2017, the second question by the Member of Parliament, Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on the 'publishing of Presidential Decrees for the recognition of professional rights of TEI graduates', will not be discussed as a result of the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs Mr. Konstantinos Gavroglou. For the same reason, the eighth question will not be discussed under number 480/14-2-2017, the second question of the Greek Communist Party, Mr.Ioannis Delis, the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning the permits of deputy teachers, as well as the ninth question of the second question of the MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Christos Papapas to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, concerning "the fulfilment of the Nation's battalion". The fifth question under number 537/24-2-2017 of the New Democracy MP, Christos Boukorous, concerning the increase in the unemployment rate in Magnesia due to deindustrialisation, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Economy and Development, Alexandros Haritsis, due to a planned trip to Mytilini. The sixth question, under number 447/6-2-2017, of the second question of the Athens Parliamentary II of the New Democracy, Mr Spyridon - Adonidos Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance, concerning the "meeting of the Prime Minister with representatives of the investment bank Rothschild", as well as the seventh question under number 345/16-1-2017, the second question of the Athens MP, Mr Spyridon - Adondos Georgiadis to the Minister of Finance, on mismanagement issues in the Greek Defence Systems (ESA), will not be discussed as a result of an impediment by the Minister of Finance, Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou. We now move to the twelfth under number 527/24-2-2017 a topical question by the Member of the Lesvos Parliamentary Party of Greece Mr. Stavros Tassos to the Minister of Health on the Polypowerful Regional Hospital of Tilos. This timely question will be answered by the Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Xanthos. Mr Tassos, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the situation at Tilos's Polyvalent Physician has reached the unprecedented. Since 2012 and under the responsibility of all governments, of course, Tilos Medical School has no permanent staff. The eight hundred inhabitants of the island, who, of course, become much longer in summer, stay completely without a doctor, or those responsible are trying to fill the gaps with the secondment of staff from other tragicly subordinated health units. The government’s smuggling and mocking continue at the expense of people’s health, at the same time that in some cases the consequences of a lack of doctors are painful. Last example, which was the drop that left over the glass, is for the inhabitants of the island the tragic incident when traumatized with extensively severe burns was helpless with unbearable pains without pains for two days, because the hospital did not possess this injection and was taken to the General Hospital of Rhodes by a line ship. The transport of the wounded was impossible to do by another means, due to weather. The policy pursued by the government on both our islands and the fascists, which are being organized, is nothing more than abundant mockery, ash in the eyes of the islanders, because its eyes are always on the capital fronts, which require even more bloody cuts in the expenditure on social needs. Substitution, lack of health material, difficulties in interposing emergencies from the small islands in large hospitals, make the lives of the inhabitants of the small islands terriblely difficult, unsafe and dangerous. So we ask you, Minister: what measures will the government take to ensure that the Polypowerful Regional Medical Center in Tilos is fully served with medical and nursing staff, taking into account the needs of the people and the structure of refugees on the island? Secondly, what measures will you take to stop here and now the temporary decommissioning by secondment of staff from other units and contracts with NGOs and to permanently and immediately resolve the staffing of the Multi-purpose Regional Medical Service?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u46	Thank you Mr Stavros Tassos, MP of the Communist Party of Greece. The Minister for Health, Mr. Xanthos, has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u47	Dear colleague, thank you very much for the question. I mean, from the outset, there's no mockery. There is a real difficulty, there is a time-consuming difficulty for the state to meet the needs of the citizens in isolated, difficult and insular parts. Right now, to come to reality today, the situation is getting better at Tilos' Polypowerful Regional Medicine. Indeed, there was a time when there were difficulties in staffing, there was the movement of a doctor, who was there for a very long time. What the residents know very well, however, is that the island was never left without a doctor, obviously with emblematic solutions, i.e. with the help of the Armed Forces, as today serves a doctor - and there is in agreement with the Ministry of National Defence that it will be covered for as long as the island needs to be covered with a doctor - there has been the assistance of non-governmental organisations and there have been movements from other neighbouring islands and regional doctors, from Halki for example. You know very well that we have announced a position of curator II General Medicine, unfortunately without response. We have announced a position of Assistant Doctor of General Medicine or Pathology, also unresponsive, and thankfully this period there has been a voluntary intent, availability of travel and, as of 21 February, a qualified physician of general medicine has been moved from a 6th HS office to Tilos for three months and we believe that he will strengthen the medical presence on the island, along with the recruitment of two nurses: a permanent nurse from the 5K notice, which we announced last year and finalised this year, and also another nurse, with the last announcement of the four thousand posts through the OAED's special programme. An ambulance driver's position was also requested, which was not met, because it did not meet the annual unemployment criterion. Now these vacant posts will be reopened with a lower or even zero unemployment limit, so that we can also make it easier to cover this position. The permanent post of curator of General Medicine or Pathology we reapprove it. Also, to know that there has been a very great effort to give increased motivation. Both rural doctors' posts in the multi-purpose regional hospital have the additional bonus of 400 euros, a allowance that we had established last year with Law4368 and we believe that the combination of these interventions will strengthen the incentives for attraction and hope that the needs will be addressed on a lasting basis, as rightly pointed out, that this should be the objective, namely, to meet the needs of this island, its residents living there and, of course, its visitors in the summer. The last thing I would like to say to you is that it is being moved from the former Thera Health Center, which has now been transformed and strengthened with the new Santorini Hospital and will be transported a telemedicine cabin to the particular multi-powered regional hospital, which also strengthens the diagnostic capacity of doctors and may, with the help of experienced doctors from Piraeus Hospitals, provide the necessary instructions so that the care of citizens is the best possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Tassos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u49	Minister, it is clear from the answer you have given that there is no hope that Tilos' multi-powered Regional Medical School will be served with the necessary permanent staff. This is because, like the previous governments, you are following the same policy, both in general and in particular, in the health sector, which, of course, aims to limit the costs for social needs so that resources can be saved so that creditors can get their money back and make these arrangements which will enable them to come out of the crisis with high profitability. Therefore, as I said in my protology, you have them permanently directed towards the needs of capital and not to the needs of Greek society. For example, you are very galantic about shipowners' subsidies to put their sapocausts on the lines, but you are too tight to motivate doctors and nursing staff to go to such areas that are, of course, isolated, they are far from home and therefore at least the wages they will get to allow them to live with dignity. That is why, as you have said, it is clear that although some posts were announced for both permanent and subsidiary staff, there was no attendance, because it is clear that the conditions under which these people are called upon to work are not satisfactory. It should therefore be made clear - and we have stressed it too many times too many times - that, unfortunately, in this system, health is nothing more than an area of profitability, such as everything. Every human activity is a profitable field. Education, health, the environment, the natural beauties of our country are areas of profitability for big capital. And your policy, unfortunately, is on the same line as the policy of the previous governments. Everything is done for the profitability of large capital, and that of course includes health. This is the reality and we have said so many times that if you do not collide with this policy, there is no way that what we call public and free health will be supported. Public free health and capitalism are concepts inconsistent and the islands will be a life in the outside, so to speak a little popular, while shipowners have their fifty-six tax exemptions and will drink to the health of the sucklers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Tassos. The Minister for Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u51	I will not be tempted to answer the ideological question. We've had this conversation before. We, my dear colleague, believe that not only in conditions of capitalism, but also in conditions of proposed austerity and monumental commitments, such as our country today, can, if there are the right political priorities, support public care, ensure universal coverage of citizens. We did this last year and this is undeniable. At a time when the country is bankrupt, this government has left a print of sensitivity and bias in favour of the weak. It ensured the universal medical coverage of all uninsured citizens only through the use of AMKA and their free service in public services. This is a very important change that has taken place, although the unfavourable financial environment is undeniable. Also, this government believes that the area of health is not, as you say, a means of facilitating the profitability of capital. There is no such intervention in the two years that we have the responsibility of governance to confirm it. What we have proved in a very concrete way is that there is a priority for public health and a concept of subsidiarity on the part of the private sector, which obviously also covers part of the citizens' overall health needs. Health, for us, is a place of real needs, it is a place of decent care for citizens at the time of need, and it is also a place of social redistribution where the state must redistribute resources and support the weakest strata. And that is what we are, consistently, doing with the policy that I have told you. The problem of island staffing, the problem of residents' insecurity in the island regions, particularly in the health sector, is real and we fully understand this demand from local communities, from local authorities, from political parties, for these needs to be met as fully as possible. We have promoted a grid of measures and incentives, as I told you last year with this arrangement for the EUR 400 allowance and with special regulation and understanding that we have done with regional self-government and primary local government to give a social bonus to people who are recruited in regional doctors and the auxiliary doctors and with incentives - non-economic - which we have given for the quickest development of doctors' staff. With regulation, which we spend in the mental health bill the day after tomorrow, we release "clicked" doctors who had gone to the islands who have served for over five years and then the law on their compulsory movement into other urban centres has not been activated. We activate this and, in my view, it is a very important incentive, because otherwise caging in these places was acting as an incentive to choose doctors to go to these areas. We are also trying to add two EKAB aerospace bases to the Aegean region. Previously, there was only one in Rhodes. Now we've added another to Syros and we're preparing a second to Mytilini. This will greatly reduce the response time for the emergency Aerospace and, in my opinion, strengthen the quality of care and safety that the health system can give in emergencies. Also, what we have done is that through a special programme for the refugee, the ISF, financed by Europe, we hired a hundred forty, about forty, doctors and other staff on seven islands in the eastern Aegean, which were heavily charged by the refugee. We have requested these days for additional funding and an increased number of sixty-five people. It was a very important injection of human resources into island regions, which, of course, serves, apart from refugees, and the local population, and this was recognised by everyone. What I would also like to say is that the gradual proclamation of two thousand permanent doctors from the ESS, who are starting these days and ending in the course of the year, will provide a special provision for a section dealing solely with primary care, that is to say, countryside, islands and PESH health centres, that is to say, primary care structures in urban centres. I think that with all this combination of interventions we can look forward to a better landscape in the part of primary care in the islands as well. And as far as this island is concerned, I repeat what I said from the beginning, it has never been left without medical coverage. A doctor and a midwife used to serve some time ago. Now they're serving two doctors, one midwife and two nurses. It is a significant upgrade and we make systematic efforts to meet the needs of the region permanently.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Minister of Health, Mr. Xanthos. The eleventh Question No 530/24-2-2017, on 'the retention of part of the OPEKEPE grants due to the failure to pay the GEO', will not be discussed as a result of the Minister's impediment. Nor will the third be discussed under No 446/18-10-2016 question by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOKs - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the serious problems faced by farmers. Also the thirteenth question under number 552/3-2017, on the degraded state of health, will not be discussed by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Pavlos Polakis, due to an impediment by the Deputy Minister of Health. We're moving on to the last question. The second question will be discussed under number 1481/24-11-2016 question by MP II of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Georgios Diaras, to the Minister of Health, concerning complaints of high rates of Cesarean in Greece without medical justification. The Minister of Health, Mr. Andreas Blondos, will answer. Here, Mr Deiaras, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, our issue is the Cesarean domains. The issue of the excessively high rate of Cesarean crossroads in Greece is well known. According to reports in our country, births with a cesarean incision range from 50% to 70%, of course, depending on maternity, when the average in the countries of the European Union is 25%. The World Health Organization characterises as an permissible rate of Cesarean 15%. It is characteristic that on all births the Cesarean rates in Greece amount to 58%, while in France and Great Britain they are close to 18%. The UN Commission on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women in the Final Comments on the Seventh Periodic Report on Greece 2013 expressed its concern about the extremely high rate of Cesarean crosses, urging our country to reduce the rate of Cesarean incisions that are done without medical need. However, the picture in our country does not seem to change and the percentages of Cesarean volumes remain unduly high. Specialists indicate, as the main reasons for this practice, that the doctors should not comply with international criteria and protocols, as regards cases where they become medically required Cesarean section. A normal childbirth can last from six to thirty - six hours, binding on the obstetrician, while a caesarean can be performed within an hour and with a scheduled date. Moreover important is the burden of the state funds on the Cesarean, as the closed consolidated hospital paid by the EEAY for a normal birth without complications is EUR 600, while the corresponding Cesarean without complications is EUR 1,000. At the same time, the profits of private motherhoods from Cesarean, as in the corresponding packages that offer for birth with the assistance of EEAY, the burden for birth with Cesarean in relation to normal birth is from 170 euros for triple up to 620 for single and up to 992 euros for lounge room. On the basis of the above, I ask you, Minister: what is the exact number of births with normal births and what with a caesarean in the country for public homes and what for private homes respectively? Secondly, what is the annual cost of the EEAA for births with caesarean and normal births respectively and what are the corresponding rates according to the latest available data? What specific measures has the Ministry taken so far to reduce the excessively high number of births with Cesareans? And what control procedures are applied by the Ministry of Health to establish the adequate medical justification for the births carried out by a cesarean incision?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u54	Thank you for this very important question. I think that the Minister for Health, Mr Xanthos, will give us the appropriate answers on this matter. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u55	In fact, Mr President, I think it is one of the most appropriate questions, which raise problems of a deeper and more qualitative functioning of the health system. And it really is worth the National Representation and society to be informed and considered about the real facts and, above all, to have the stimulus for us to have a more effective state intervention. The problem is important and it's real. And we, precisely because this was the surrounding atmosphere that you described in cooperation with the local office of the World Health Organisation in Greece, asked for and conducted an investigation, and a few days ago we were lucky to have the conclusion of this investigation delivered to us, which we will give in the next few days to publicity. In other words, there was a deliverable on the part of researchers, who did a very systematic job, collaborated with the three medical scientific companies that exist, visited too many hospitals, obstetrics clinics, and the public and private sectors, collaborated with university doctors, with private doctors and the data confirm that there is a very significant deviation in the percentages observed in our country. The picture is that in total births 56.8% are made with a caesarean section, of which 53.8% are in the ESS and 58.7% are in the private sector. That's the reality. Indeed, the acceptable limit on the part of the World Health Organisation is 15%. The average in Europe is around 30%, that is to say in other European countries there is a problem, but we have double the trend in recent years. I therefore think that this is an image which, in my view, and the scientific community in our country, exposes our country, exposes on-the-spot women to the increased risks of an operation such as the Cesarean incision. It is also a very clear burden on the health system because it is estimated that approximately the cost of the Cesarean section, either as compensation to closed integrated hospitals in the health system or as a fee for doctors, is about 66% above normal delivery and, of course, costs citizens financially. I therefore believe that it is a problem, which, of course, is multifactorial, has something to do with the side of providers, that is, doctors and the health system, but also with the side of the recipients, namely pregnant women. There is, of course, a preference for doctors in Cesarean areas, because with Cesarean incision there is the possibility of scheduled delivery, which can make it easier to adjust time, plan events, etc.. It is characteristic that 70% of Cesareans are held at 8.00 hours to 16.00 hours. I think that's very indicative. There's also an issue of defensive medicine. In other words, there is a feeling in particular in young obstetricians that it is a safer option for Cesarean section to expose less the newborn to danger and that it restricts the possible effects and complications of normal birth, for which there seems to be reduced education at this time, and our young doctors feel that they do not have the experience to deal with an unpredictable event in the course of normal delivery and therefore, for reasons of defence of medicine because they have been persecuted because they have gone to the courts and have been sentenced doctors for'malpractice', and the invocation was 'why you did not choose the Cesarean section for safety reasons', there is one such issue. But obviously there is - and we must say that - and the incentive to increase pay. That's clear. Unfortunately, this also concerns the public health system through informal payments and the private sector. Now, on the women's side, I think that there is the conviction, since - let us say it - that it is more painless and safer experience, through the Cesarean process. There is a feeling that the woman can, in this way, choose her doctor and her maternity care, which is monitored through the caesarean section, which, for example, in the public health system by rotating in on-call cannot possibly be ensured. This plays an important role for a large part of women. There is also an objective fact, which is due to an increase in childbirth, an increase in medically assisted reproduction, multiple pregnancies, and pregnancies that are considered valuable - badly in my view - because all pregnancys are valuable - because they are women who, in fact, are really very difficult to childbirth and believe that caesarean is a safer option to bring the world a healthy child. So I think there is certainly also a lack of information about the risks of Cesarean and the benefits of normal birth. It is also considered by doctors and society to be a more 'voluntary' - let me call it - a choice. So what we need, in our view, is to intervene in all these factors. We need a new regulatory framework. On the basis of this report by the WHO and its conclusion, we will provoke an information campaign more widely in society, we will provoke discussions, we will ask the Central Health Council to give us a framework of guidelines, protocols, on the process and on the perinatal care of both childbirth and childbirth itself and its complications and choices to be made during pregnancy. I also think that what we need to do is to impose a justification procedure for cases of at least the parts of the clinical, private and public units that have an excessively increased rate of caesarates. It must therefore be scientifically substantiated on the basis of the international guidelines and the guidelines in force in all the countries, in order to confirm the need to use this method. So I think that we need more control. That's the state's responsibility. Obviously, we also need a culture change in health, maternity and society. The effort we are going to make from now on will be in cooperation with the scientific community, with the information of society, in order to achieve a better performance of our country and an improvement of this reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Dimitras, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u57	Minister, it honors you that you have not only admitted the truth, what is happening in our country, but you have made it even more clear, beyond the evidence I have put in my question. In our country many things have escaped regularity. We have arrived in unorthodox and pathogens, we have come natural to become abnormal. I will tell you my experience, to hear it from the Greek people, from a very small village from which I come, where a practical maid for thirty-five to forty-five years was giving birth to all the children of the village, including me. Six children had my family. All the practice mamma itself unborn, which hadn't even been to primary school. Three hundred more children had no failure. That's 0% mortality. This practice, without within that time, in a village. The normal, that is, to give birth to women normally, as nature brought them, we with developed science, developed technical means, medicines, made it abnormal and arrived in our country at over 50% of the children born with Cesarean cuts. Now, then, it's time for some things to get into place. The Greek people, Minister, expect the current government to change things. I, too, as a Member of Parliament who support this government, say to you: dare. dare for the good of the people, for the good of the public interest. What others didn't do and mixed up these pathogens is the time to fix them. So all you have said must be done soon. To inform the citizens, but, above all, administrative measures must be taken, rules must be laid down and return to normality and to this area, as in other areas of social and economic life of this place.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Dimitras. Mr. Xanthos has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u59	I think it is very appropriate indeed to point out that there is a tendency to medicalize normal procedures of human life and of the process of death. That's true. But it is now very well established in social consciousness and we cannot obviously look back at periods where there were no specialized scientists, health professionals, services, infrastructure. I think that what we need to do is in the complex environment, in the new, for example, needs that have been created and in the new possibilities offered by science, as you have rightly said, to set limits and frameworks so as not to abuse, to make rational use of the resources available to the health system. What should always be deaf, is in the interests of the citizen, the patient, public health, health as a whole and not, of course, the facilitation of health professionals or much more the economic benefit. I think, therefore, that there is a very large scope for action in this area. Now we're on our way. The truth is that the daily life of the health system and the difficulties do not allow us many times to deal with and intervene in such complex issues. I think, however, that the process has begun now, we are at a very good level of cooperation with the World Health Organisation in Greece. What I need is, as I said before, a framework of guidelines. That is what the scientific community will give us, the Ministry, the competent body and the ERC. We have seen that where these criteria are applied - for example, I was looking at the data in Alexandra that I read from the report that it is a hospital that has clinical guidelines - there is 10% lower than the rate. So where there is scientific experience, where there is the emphasis on documented care, where there are rules that are observed, the percentages are clearly better, of course more but clearly better. And I think that in addition to these speeches of awareness and information, we also need counter-motivation. A grid of anti-motors which will prevent the abuse of these methods which are proven on the basis of the data of the International Scientific Community are not acceptable as a percentage of all births. This is all processed from the Ministry's side. I think that this intervention by the WHO gives us some policy directions, which we will work together with the EEA, and I think we can slowly look forward to a more improved picture in this area as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u61	I repeat, you dare, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u62	We'll dare. I think we're doomed to dare, because the thing has taken a terrible proportion, Mr. Dearah. I think the Minister put it in the right context. The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, the minutes of the sittings of Friday 13 January 2017, Monday 16 January 2017, Wednesday 18 January 2017, Thursday 19 January 2017, Friday 20 January 2017 and Monday 23 January 2017 have been distributed and the House is asking whether they are validated.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u63	The minutes of Friday 13 January 2017, Monday 16 January 2017, Wednesday 18 January 2017, Thursday 19 January 2017, Friday 20 January 2017 and Monday 23 January 2017 were validated. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-03-13-S1-commons.u64	With the consent of the House at 19.46' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 14 March 2017, at 18.00 p.m., on the subject of the House: legislative work, according to the agenda that has been distributed to you.
