ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS We begin with the third with number 748-24-2017, a topical question by MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The health and environmental bomb of the garbage in Zakynthos remains". The Minister of Interior, Mr. Panagiotis Skourletis, is answering. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The problem, Minister, is well known to you. It has been a long time since this issue, which concerns the situation in Zakynthos with garbage, where we are literally talking about a health and environmental bomb. There are at times too many meetings between your Ministry and Zakynthos with various solutions, which have been given and which have been left on paper, because none of them have gone along with various expiry dates, in terms of dealing with the problem. However, the problem remains, the situation is deteriorating, the tons of garbage are growing, which remain throughout the island of Zakynthos, with serious risks to public health and the environment, much more so now that it comes in the summer, the temperatures are rising so that the situation becomes even more stifling. So the specific questions which we raised, Mr Minister, in the timely question are two: Firstly, what is this immediate and safe solution to address this situation in Zakynthos and how these solutions will be launched with concrete timetables? Secondly, can we, after your own intervention, free workers, if we need a legislative initiative, and the town's people's public houses from the city's cleaning charges, pay charges, as long as this situation remains with retroactive effect? On these two issues we want concrete answers, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Karathanasopoulos, it is not just a matter that is known to us, but, as you have suggested in your question, we have been dealing in a systematic way since November last year. I personally have participated in four meetings, at least, with the mayor, the Waste Management Agency, the district manager, the district manager, and I have met workers at the city's labour centre. I think that we have almost all exhausted, if not all, the means we have to press for a genuine response to a problem which really blows the economy and, of course, constitutes a health bomb, as you described it. However, I think we can talk for a few days now with optimism and be able to claim that the problem has now taken the lead in solving it. After we have lost valuable time, after we have reached a marginal situation - as Zakynthos is an island which is one of the first tourist destinations - and we have spent Easter holidays under extreme conditions with tons of garbage in the city, there is a whole background, there are very great responsibilities, which are shared in local government, as I have said in this Chamber in response to a similar timely question that had been made some time ago. Local government has the first responsibility for waste management. The state on its part has been emptied in time of all the solutions that have existed since November at least as far as I know. On 22 November the first meeting was held on 12 December, the second meeting on 23 February, the third meeting on 13 April, the fourth meeting on 24 April, just a few days ago, with my own participation. I stress this because I wanted to take a close look at this problem myself. Because they owe nothing to the workers and the people of the island to suffer all this irresponsibility on the part of the people concerned. However, right now - and this is the latest information I have from the Secretary-General of the Decentralised Administration, who has been on the island up to now - that the parceler has been selected to be installed in a place near the former KYTAs in the field of the Objective. We hope that at the end of next week it will start to work and within two and a half months the interim solution will have worked in the area of the Liva area, where the final solution is intended to be there. For all this, we have secured the permits, and the funding of the final solution from the relevant ESDP programme has also been ensured. So I think that even late things are going well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u6	Minister, I wish we had and shared your optimism. Because we know very well and recognise that there have been dozens of meetings on this issue and with your presence, but the decisions of which have been left on paper. Like yesterday's decision, which was taken at the meeting held on the island with the Secretary-General of Decentralised Administration, we very much fear that he will stay on paper for the bondmaker in the Objective until he becomes HYTHY in Liva. Even more so, today's development is that after lawsuiting the inhabitants of the Objective they arrested the excavators who went to do the earthmoving work. You understand very well where the situation is going. And much more so that even the parceler can be implemented - if implemented - and all the standards are respected, tons of garbage cannot be absorbed in a very short period of time, while the packing of garbage poses new risks. From this point of view, Minister, we are very well aware that the issue of garbage is not just a problem of Zakynthos, but a whole lot more. We also know that there is a huge economic interest war, for which business groups will take over waste management. And in Zakynthos there is a corresponding business war with any solutions that are not promoted or undermined is expressed on the substance. Those who will pay this business war are the residents themselves, the people themselves, the people's homes in Zakynthos, who are experiencing this sanitary environmental bomb. Also, whatever solution is given will be at their expense, because the fees will go too high. It will bring the dilemma into the world - and they also know it from the local players where they are responsible, the mayor and the district manager, but also from the government - or they will pay for the garbage to deal with the problem, or else they will live with this sanitary bomb. That is the big problem, Minister. In this respect, any good intentions - in introductory or out-of-importation - which the government may have seem to be finding a wall. And we say clearly that, once business groups are involved, once the waste management is privatised, it will be traded, then you understand very well what painful situations are going to lead people to the rubbish issue, but also workers themselves, to the collection and treatment of waste with the workers concerned, to contract workers, with the absence of hygiene and safety measures. In this respect, therefore, our concern remains and we are not doing so, Minister, for opposition reasons. There are a hundred other reasons for opposition to the government. However, it is a real concern and we very much fear that it will not be dealt with in the next few years unless the government itself intervenes in the direction of implementing the solution and not flying - which, of course, is the responsibility of the local administration and the municipality and the region - the ball on who will solve the problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I think we cannot talk in general and vaguely about responsibilities, because some of them you have mentioned. But be careful to see: there needs to be a attitude of responsibility from all the parties involved and from all the political forces. It is important to create those proper conditions of social pressure so that everyone takes responsibility. We are not one of those who will easily transfer responsibilities elsewhere. However, what was going through and going through our hand through decentralised administration, that is to say surveillance, a close monitoring of all the steps necessary to deal with this issue, has been carried out. And we don't generally speak vaguely. You know that the proposal to fund the definitive solution through the relevant NSRP has been tabled and as far as I know, from the scores it has obtained, it will be finally adopted. So we're talking about a definitive solution. The references you make in general - and you make them in all cases as a Communist Party - for the non-use, for the speculative treatment of a matter related to waste, but it does not get stuck in all cases. There are more characteristic cases - if you want - to refer to such a logic, to confirm this argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u9	We also know the ships that remain decommissioned, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u10	So, be careful to see: What I cannot understand, and I honestly think it is a logic that does not fall short of the problem, is that you are asking for as long as you ask the trash on the streets to get the workers rid of the fees. First of all, you know that this presupposes a decision of the municipal council based on the constitutionally regulated autonomy of local government. So it could - as has been made in some cases - take such a decision on vulnerable social groups. But, over here at a time when we need to tell them'masters, after you collect the money, you have to do your job, you have to deal with this issue', what is the point? So, is this an easy recipe to throw away every time? They are not helping such a thing - let us say - arguments. As far as our sensitivity to the issue of contractors is concerned, you know it. It is also a very important public debate. We will have time to extend it and make it in the House as well. I know that the party of Officerial Response has tabled a question for the next few days on local government issues. Mr. Voridis has testified her. And that is where we will be able to discuss this. I think, therefore, that - and I do not speak in words, I already know that there has been a complete technical preparation for the replacement of the tanker, who has the ability to pack up to two hundred tons within a certain period of time - and during the two months that are needed to find a transitional solution to the Liva position - the road that is going to go and the corresponding authorisation from the Forestry has also been found - we will actually clear the matter and that 'water has indeed entered the groove'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Shipping and Islands Policy: "Preparation of the International Convention for the Control and Management of Cosmetics and sediment from Ships, 2004 and other provisions". In addition, the MP, Mr. Ioannis Theophile, is requesting permission from a short-day absence abroad, for personal reasons, from 28 April 2017 to 2 May 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u12	The House therefore approved the requested permission. Subsequent to the first question under number 744-24-2017, the second question of the Attica Parliamentary Law of the Radical Left, Mr Panagiotis (Panou) kouriakou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the resumption of municipal regional theatres. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question has to do with the reopening of municipal regional theatres and I would say that it is a happy juncture that is currently in the Chamber and the Minister for the Interior. The important case of the operation of the theatrical structures supported by central and local government in the region has reached a dead end. The institution of the municipal regional theatres, which in previous years produced the art of the theatre, but also encouraged many cultural actions, has essentially closed its operating and historical cycle. The policies of the previous governments are responsible for this situation, along with the obvious responsibilities of many local leaders. Give an example. In 2010, grants amounted to 2,479,000 euros, while in 2014 they went down to 483,000, to one sixth. A great deal of concern and fear has arisen because of the last decision on municipal regional theatres, which maintains the stillness, giving the kiss of life - an anaemic kiss of life, I would say - in a few theaters, leaving them in their luck and with them leaving large parts of the region, in terms of care, which the state must show as regards the operation of the theatre everywhere in our country. It is time for the government, through the Ministry responsible, to table a new proposal on municipal regional theaters for the theatre in the region. The whole world of theatre expects this proposal with an anguish, but also the citizens of the region. The large majority agrees that another model should be proposed, combining forces, achieving a climate economy and having democratically accountable administration in its decisions and actions. So you ask yourself, if you intend to draw up a new proposal that takes into account the historical, but also modern data, in these conditions of economic suffocation that we are experiencing, in order to organise a new institution that covers the country and enables more than one set of first and second levels of local government to participate actively and with decisive economic responsibility, which will also reduce the central authority in terms of its full responsibility for these theatres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u14	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Darkness, I avoid roaming, but I really feel that a very large part of my route and service at the theatre has been dedicated to decentralisation. Already since 1975, with the pioneer in the decentralisation of Aspasia Papathanasiou, there have been tours throughout Greece, in all the villages, which were exactly the road that was opened later with the PPC, and for twelve years, I think I am able to have a very clear picture. I agree with what you have identified with regard to the pathogenesity of the PPC. As you know, in recent years due to the reduction of grants, the Ministry of Culture no longer has any kind of intervention in the operation of PPC. We know the problems very well. We wanted in this transitional period to give a signal that we want to improve the functioning of PPC. We did not want to surprise the PPCDDs, creating changes in which they did not have time to respond and thus jeopardise their grants and support from the region. We wanted to make a warning transition, with which we reward the PPC who respect the agreements. We increased their subsidy from EUR 46,500 per year to EUR 62,500 per year. These are the seven DUTY number. So I do not understand why you say that we have abandoned the institution. On the other hand, we support the PUBLIC which respect their commitments to a certain extent. We haven't reduced to five D.C.E.D. their grant so they won't be surprised. She's still the same. Only in one we reduced the subsidy and another stopped in practice because it had been put out of the network. It is therefore clear that we want to upgrade the institution. We want to give him a new breath. In the new programme, much improved and renewed criteria and conditions will be put in place and we will shape the conditions through consultation so that this new programme meets the new standards and requirements set by today's era. Our policy is everything that is being done in the centre to decentralize, to vaporize in the region and abroad. Our intention is to provide guidelines for cooperation between the centre and the region, but also between the region and the outside. So we do not intend to give up. We don't believe the institution is blowing the slippers. On the contrary, we want to renew it, but it is not a one-sided one from the Ministry, local communities, municipalities and regions also need to be involved. After all, they are regional theatres and they are legally intended to involve the regions. It is done in some cases, but it must be done within a much more organised and commonly agreed basis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I will not go into detail either, but you know that I have a term of office in these theatres, ten years as director and several periods as an actor or director. So I've lived these in-house theatres. I've spent a lot of my theatrical life on them. You said you didn't want to surprise me. You surprise something that's running. For something, which is in this state where the theatres are at the moment, a pleasant surprise is needed to wake them up. You told us the grant was at 62,500 euros. I understand. That's how much of the state's potential. You know, however, that this money is not even enough to pay permanent technical and administrative staff. How are the productions going to be done? You said the production would go downtown. Production from centre to region is good, but it is not only possible to give the centre the lights in the region. They have to be primary productions there too. You are aware of the sad situation in which the theatres are currently being found, which operate at multiple speeds. What are they doing? Removals do and you need to see this issue of fake co-production, where a private theatrical businessman borrows the name of the theatre, puts it in the poster and takes the workers, logistics infrastructure, projectors, sound, trucks, etc. And the D.C.E.D. with little money coming in, just pretends it's alive. You know very well, then, that most of the productions currently in PPC are made by amateur actors. It is very important that the amateur theatre, but as an amateur theatre. The founding law, that of Melina, provides professionals with 80%. They don't work with a program, but with random options. You know, a lot of people don't have an artistic director. In these theaters where the money went, they all have an artistic director, because, if they don't, it's a matter, we're out of law. Each of them operates in their own way. We have theatres for which I learned, such as the PPCTHI Larissa under the historical name of the Thessaloniki theatre, that it made a proclamation that has nothing to do with the founding law of the PPC. It is a proclamation that, Minister, if you claimed this post, you worked with Kostas Tsianos to make the historic "Elektra", you would not be the director with this theater's proclamation. To conclude - and I thank you for the time - I would like to say that the reorganisation of the PPC institution in the context of the theatrical decentralisation has been and is a central element of the SYRIZA programme. The creation of large regional theatres, where we mean geographical, is a primary objective and it is a very important issue to go ahead. Finally, I would like to support the behaviour of the regional authorities who do not participate in the existing PPCs. They could also help in many ways. No one's done it, and if anyone's done it, I'm sorry, and we're gonna have to report it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u18	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u19	It is clear that the new programming agreement will set a number of clearer conditions in terms of cooperation and co-production. It's all very well known what you said. In the new programme, however, very clear conditions will be laid down for cogeneration. Also, on the subject of the artistic director, there is a involvement, which is not always due to the municipalities. There is a involvement, that, when it is a socially beneficial organisation, it is recruited under the law by IP, i.e. it must have some university degrees or technical skills. That's what we're looking at, we've been looking into it very hard, Mr. Darkness. We're in the process of looking to solve the problem. We are in contact with both the mayor of Larissa and the lawyers so that this problem can be solved. There is a legal contradiction in this. While artistics, on the one hand, are excluded, they are obliged to take other criteria. We know that and we are in a phase of exploring and resolving this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u20	I sent you the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u21	Also, as you may know, in the notices of grants we have made for the theatre and dance for the period 2017 and 2018, we encourage the theatres to create relationships between co-operation and co-production not only on an economic technical basis, but also on a substantial art partnership, so that there is just substance in co-production and not typical. This is very important and is already being done with the Athens Festival and with some free theatre, with DIFTH. There's a lot of cooperation going on. These steps are beginning to be taken. They will become more coordinate and more organised with the new programming. But I want to say that we want to support this institution and upgrade it. We are thinking very seriously about the possibility of cooperation between the PPCIs so that there can be savings and exploitation of the potential. And, of course, one of the most basic criteria we will set is the jobs to recruit professionals of the theatre, the dance, the coefficients and stop this "grey zone" where the amateur theatre is confused with the professional. It is very important for there to be the amateur theatre and we want it to be part of the DIFTH, so that this aspect of societies, which is also very important, can be expressed. However, this should not be confused with the professional part, which will be set as a basic term in the criteria.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Minister. Here is the first question under number 743/244/2017, the first question of the first cycle of the Member of the Dodecanese Coalition of the Radical Left, Elias Kamaterou, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the auctioning by the FKA of the property ownership of an agricultural co-operative of dudosos. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in the Dodecanese - for you know, it is twenty-five inhabited islands - that the association of agricultural cooperatives operates - historical union - which covers the entire rural world of the Dodecanese. Over ten thousand farmers are served through the cooperative - for example, in their applications at the IACC - and 90% of Rhodes' wine grape production is absorbed by the 'KAIP'. KAIR is a subsidiary of the association, a historic company, founded by Italian rule, which is also housed in traditional buildings. You know that on 22 March, with the expedited ECA, a property belonging to the association was auctioned by the former IKA, which, if sold, deprives it of any possibility of entering into the law on the extrajudicial compromise, which we are discussing and voting on today. He's got all the possibilities to get in. The Union can be sustainable. Fortunately, with the mobilisation of workers and farmers, this auction has been averted. On 28 February, the association filed an application for 'freezing' for this procedure here, until it was given the opportunity to make an application and to examine whether - all the evidence shows that it can - be subject to the extrajudicial compromise. The Union's request is to intervene, to order so that this process can be frozen here, so that, as I said, it can enter the law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like to remind you that this is in the interests of both the fund and the public, because we know very well - and we are voting today in the extrajudicial compromise, but it also applies in general - that in an auction the bank, which has mortgaged the property with 75% and will precede the tax. And you know very well that by insisting on the IKA in this procedure - in this case - EKA will lose his money, while, in the alternative, it 'freezes' and enters the extrajudicial compromise, it will lose nothing from the main debt. We are voting on this today. It is completely paradoxical not to protect the union and not to speed up the bank which has financed the association and which has the mortgage on the property and to speed up a public body in a cooperative which can play a very important role. I will then be given the opportunity to develop this possibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, here you go, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kamaterre, my aim is to facilitate the country's productive potential, as we face at the same time the high debt accumulation towards social security. I agree with you that it does not make sense to deprive you of the possibility and, indeed, of such an activity - agricultural cooperative - to fulfil its obligations and to facilitate agricultural production in the Dodecanese. And I would like to stress that the Dodecanese need our own attention, because these islands, from their complex, have a problematic relationship with both the transport of agricultural products and their accumulation and production. We must therefore make sure that cooperatives are facilitated. It is paradoxical, however, how such a historical co-operative, with such a good product, has become paradoxical since 2010, when there were no other winemaking productions, no longer - the KAIR Rhodes was famous and not only in Greece - to have paid no other than a first dose than the regulation it had made. One must be carefully and with interest in the management of agricultural cooperatives. It's an old problem. It's not today. Don't create false impressions from what I'm saying. I simply stress the need for everyone to take care, in the common area of social security, of ensuring the resources for its development. And that should not be our least concern. Of course, no auction procedures should go ahead, as the extrajudicial compromise procedure has been opened. The arrangements provided for are offered in the case of the Dodecanese agricultural cooperative. From this point of view, the position of the Ministry, the personal position and the position of the administration of EKKA will be that this procedure should not continue, because it is inconsistent to proceed to a forced auction when there is a procedure that will start, as you know, with an application submitted by an electronic procedure and therefore wants at least five months to start producing its results. It is inconsistent, I repeat, to move forward and now to speed up forced auctions, while at the door the opening of this procedure is at the door. This is the Ministry's political position, and that is how we will manage this issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Minister, for the commitment. It will be a relief for the entire rural world of the Dodecanese. I would also like to say that in the debates in the Committee on Production and Trade and in those which will be followed today for the extrajudicial compromise, I hope that the procedures will be speeded up. There was a discussion about whether until the platform was built, which could be ready in three months, a paper application could be filed. In any case, it is very serious that we will allow the association to apply for the extrajudicial compromise. But allow me, in my short time, to say two words about the broader importance of such government interventions, particularly for cooperatives or for the forms of producer organization or any professional, in the context of our pursuit of production, that is, the reconstruction of the country and the reversal of the model in many areas. Especially in our region, which has the one-sided tourist development, but also in the large islands even more, such as Rhodes and Kos, it is important to promote the primary sector. The government's in the program. It must also be linked to the tourism sector. We pay particular attention to the agri-foodstuffs. Young people can be attracted to the primary sector. Programmes - and through the ESDP - are being announced here. So we have prepared such a tool, no matter how problematic it was in the past. And we know, don't go far back now. We know about what you're saying, they didn't pay in 2010. This is where private individuals have to pay for too long and will get into the mechanism and be saved, let alone a Union that has all the potential. So for us - and I am ending with this - it is very important not only to protect these tools that we have so far, but also to create. And you know that it is very difficult both for the COMCOMPs and for the cooperatives and for the ringers, which we want to strengthen, and because of the attitude that exists and because of the mechanism that is not set up so far to organise and assist the producers or any small professionals. I, in this Chamber, have repeatedly expressed my concern in this direction. And I conclude with one example: The applications that have been submitted to the Dodecanese for integration into the development law are 100% for creating new beds and expanding hotels, especially in the saturated areas such as Kos and Rhodes. Does this serve our model and our own effort for the country's productive reconstruction? It is therefore of particular importance that this effort, but also others, which must reverse the model that has prevailed in the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kamaterre, I would like to say very briefly that I fully agree with you. The role of local communities in the productive direction chosen each time for the development of the islands, as well as for each region. It is of particular importance that local government and rural cooperatives, as well as that of all the actors in the economic sector, contribute and really choose such promotional policies that bring about balanced development. In your remarks, I will not have any counterparts. What I will say to the question that will follow, however, is that social security is a social asset. It is a sacred right for the citizen to be insured and this duty must be unreserved on the part of the government so that it is fulfilled for those who must contribute to social security. That is why I would like to say in two words about my commitment today that it was a commitment that I expressed in the previous procedure. But there was typically no possibility of stopping the procedure that the judge had in his hands. It was an auction procedure and it was not possible for the government to intervene in such a procedure. Now, in the light of this development, the imminent start of the implementation of the arrangements for the extrajudicial compromise, there is no room for another fair treatment except that which you propose to stop, that is, any procedure in view of the possibility of applying. But stress, in local society, to farmers, but also to cooperatives and their own obligation to work properly in the direction that we all have to protect and start paying contributions. This is of great importance to happen in the following space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-seven students and students and four educational sessions from the 3rd High School of Chania. Guys, we welcome you to the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I must tell you that you are following a parliamentary procedure, and that is why in the Chamber it is only the honourable Members. They are MPs from all the regions of Greece who ask the ministers responsible for these matters and the ministers answer. The next question to be discussed is the third with No 746/24/2017, a topical question by your compatriot Hercule of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, on the need to find a solution for the issue of pensions, the pensionable pensions of the non-wages and farmers who have been due. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity Mr Anastasios Petropoulos. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, if the time is paid for the retirement of an insured person in the OAU or in the OGA, it must at the same time be examined how much has to be done, how much is due, how much is due and the pension scheme must proceed. Previously, until 2012, we were able to regulate debts for the OSCE up to EUR 15 000. Then in 15,000 there was 20,000 euros due to the accumulation of additional due debts, caused by the crisis and after the political forces had been consulted and with Mr. Army on the part of then SYRIZA, the amount of 20,000 increased to 50,000 euros. Then came the government of SYRIZA, this repentant, and said, badly you did it to 50, 000, I reload it to 20,000, which was in 2012 at the very beginning of the crisis. In the hundreds of twenty thousand pensions, which are in the air and have not been issued, a significant number of such candidates, who have ended their professional life, cannot work anymore, because many of them have passed over the 67th year of age and at the same time do not have their pension in order to live themselves and their family. The same applies to many who are retired farmers. The corresponding amount of late payments that can be set for farmers is 4,000, too small, I believe. [[At this point, the end of the time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Our question is this: What do you intend to do so that we have a different arrangement for the OSH for the excesses of 20,000 sums, which you now call on the people under retirement to make a single payment? Will you increase that motif? Will you at the same time make a different arrangement? Will you be able to retire with what will be regulated and in part every year retire what will be paid? There are too many possibilities that you have, as long as there is a desire to find a solution to this important issue, together with your commitment that all outstanding pensions will be issued in October 2017. If you do not make this arrangement, I assure you - from the knowledge I have - that these pensions will not come out. There will therefore be a loose end after October 2017, for which you committed yourself. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. The truth is that there was a short period of time that was given - that is, until September 2015 and not fully - to cover up to EUR 50,000 in future pensions for those freelance professionals who chose this possibility, but that was limited in time. So this procedure has prevailed and those that have been submitted are served. Therefore, your question is only objectively limited to whether the threshold should be increased for farmers as well. The sums are 20,000 for the OAU and 4,000 for the farmers. And these were set on the basis of the three-year duration necessary to complete the sum of the debts for three years. That is, EUR 4000 for farmers means three years of contributions. Twenty thousand euros debts to the OAU mean three years of contributions. Therefore, the criterion was in what time one has to raise a great debt. For farmers it is low because the amount of the contribution was small. Also, there is a very small pension for the repayment of debts. Therefore, the criteria are objective and are identical. It is an equal treatment for both farmers and other free professionals. I have said that it was technically impossible to extend, under the conditions applicable to the small pensions of farmers, the level of the debts. In the context of the single ECA, Mr Kegeroglu, we are looking at this issue in a different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Minister. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the examination is too long. And to previous questions you have answered exactly the same way. Receivable. But are your services, your office, working groups, on this subject? Let me tell you two, three simple, practical things that you can do directly to enable a significant number to be made possible and then, of course, to see the rest. Firstly, the two-month margin granted by the OSH, by the OSH, today to pay the additional amount of 20,000 - the additional amount, that is, the adjustable one, which is partially withheld by the pension - increase it and do the four-month period. For what? When the decision is made by the OAU, which says that "I will set you the twenty grand, but the other twenty-five will give me cash", immediately the insured is looking for a loan - he doesn't have it, if he had it, he would have paid - by the relative, the friend, by bank, from anywhere. This cannot be done within two months. The banks just need three months. I say this again, Minister: the banks only want three months to add. Therefore, this two-month margin has become inactive since the procedure to find the money is longer. I'd say it'd be better three or four months. And that's all he's gonna unlock ten thousand pensions. I assure you. Secondly, the additional sum of 20,000 can be added, if not 20, to a higher number of twelve instalments. To give this opportunity. Because these people have paid for so many years most of the time and there remains a smaller one, retrospectively not to apply on the day the decision comes out. Put five years ago. They are people who have ended their professional life and three and five and ten years and cannot get retired. And before the crisis, I mean. But it was a smaller number. Now he has grown sharply because of the crisis. Give them the opportunity of retrospectives to pay the extra 20,000. For farmers now. As the regime has changed, because it has increased, I would ask you to see immediately the increase in this amount, to go, at least, to the amount of 10,000 in the first phase, to see how many people will join, to see how it will work in practice and then see if it needs to go any more. But move on to two specific steps, which I ask you to do. And that means that in practice we will see and what number of pensions will be issued on the basis of these extra facilities and, of course, what remains then to be regulated as a whole. Don't expect it to come an hour when with a decision it'll all be resolved. That can't be. Step by step, we will give a solution to these issues, if you have the will. You have shown in your places that you have the will, show it in practice. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kegeroglu, I need to make some corrections to what you said. First of all, it's not twelve doses. It's forty. I'm confirming, maybe I was wrong. In forty instalments they pay off...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u38	Forty is up to twenty thousand. For over 20 grand, I'm telling you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u39	The law is specific.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u40	I say it because I know him better.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u41	It's a law that he had on your own government the rules...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u42	Because I know him better than that. Don't expose yourself. I'm protecting you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u43	Don't protect me. I'll be exposed. We have a debt that must cover thirty-monthly minimum pensions due to old age - that is the provision in the law - which should be repaid in forty equal monthly instalments. And the first withholding begins with the first pension to be granted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u44	To what height?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u45	I told you not to be more than thirty monthly minimum pensions corresponding to the worker. Because farmers' pensions are too low so the amount goes out. What I have said from the past is that we will see the question of farmers. We cannot now change these limits for farmers, because the rule must apply. To be thirty pensions the amount of the debt and forty instalments the repayment cannot change it. It is a general rule for both farmers and professionals, for all the insured. What we are changing is the amount of pension granted from now on. As this increases, these limits will also be increased in order to comply with this rule. This is because we have not done anything yet, because during the year in which we are going, there has been no retirement for farmers at that level that would allow us to multiply these limits, to increase them. This will be done soon. With the increase in pensions this will also increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, next Thursday or Friday you will have us here again on the same subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau has been informed that there will not be a debate on a number of questions which I am speaking on. The second question, under number 740/21-4-2017, is the first question by MP Heraklion of New Democracy, Eleftherios Auganos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the creation of new public works services - weakening the “Organization for the Development of Crete (OEC)” - to absolve public works in Crete,” will not be discussed as a result of the obstruction of the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport Mr.Nikolaou Mavragani. The fourth, with number 738/11-4-2017, top-stage question of the Evian MP of the People's League - Golden Dawn Mr. Nicholas Michou to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, on "without any updates, illegal immigrants were installed in the Pentelis High School", will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs, Mr.Gavroglou. Cause, workload. The fifth question under number 747/244/2017, first question by the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, on the functioning of the Psychiatric Clinic of the General Hospital of Chania "Agios GEORGIOS", will not be discussed due to the impediment of Mr. Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Paul Polakis. Cause, workload. The sixth question, under number 742/21-4-2017, of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament II Piraeus of the Independent Greeks Mr. Dimitrios Kammenos to the Minister of Environment and Energy, concerning the great charges on PPC accounts, will not be discussed due to the impediment of the Minister of the Environment and Energy Mr. Georgios Stathakis. Cause, workload. The seventh question, number 737/11-4-2017, first question of the Athens MP, Mr. Georgios Amyras, to the Minister of Finance, on the ‘SIEMENS’ case, will not be discussed as a result of an obstruction of the Minister of Finance, Mr. Euklidis Tsakalotou. Cause, workload. The second, under number 741/21-4-2017, topical question by MP Kilkis of the New Democracy, George Georgios Georgios Georgios Georgios, on the lack of information on refugee housing in Kilkis, will not be discussed due to an impediment by the Minister for Migration Policy, Mr. Ioannis Mousala. Cause of unsuccessful obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. At this point we will be interrupted for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after taking part in the Educational Programme "Democracy Workshop", organized by the Foundation of the Parliament, nineteen students and students and two educational attendants from the 1st Graduate School of Gatsi. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I've been informed of something Mr. Xydakis wants. I will give you the floor, Mr Xydakis, after we have finished the procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: 'Exit mechanism for regulating corporate debt'. The Conference of Presidents at its meeting of 5 April 2017 decided to discuss the draft law at one to two meetings. Now be careful how I make the suggestion. The final decision will be taken after we have seen the Members' records. First of all, I propose that the debate on the bill should be uniform in principle, articles and amendments. I would like to inform you that thirteen colleagues have spoken in committee. The House usually registers twice the number or even less the number they speak in the committee. If that is the number, the meeting can be concluded within this day, so that we don't have to go on a second day, depending on the three-day period because of the May Day. So we will see how many colleagues will be registered. If the figure is what I said to you, we will be able to finish today and then we will also be able to see the end of today's sitting. If it's more than that, we'll talk about it at that time. So, first of all, we agree with this procedure and we will see it on the way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u50	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u51	Many times, having recommended the Conference procedure, you have attended MPs or me from the Democratic Integration, as a Parliamentary representative, to express disagreements and, indeed, to condemn, to confuse the Government's behaviour with the amendments, by violating Parliament's Rules of Procedure on the issues of abstract legislative procedures, and so on, so on. I would like to point out here - and I consider it to be my duty to do so - the reverse logic of the procedure that has now been followed, namely, to the Standing Committee, but this procedure is also the one laid down in the Rules of Procedure. That is a good thing, Mr President, and as a good thing we are obliged, since we have criticised the negative ones, to point it out and point it out, stressing the importance of respecting the Rules of Procedure on fundamental issues. We only have two ministerial amendments, and that is good. I don't know if there are any more, we'll see it in the course of the day.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u52	So far, I haven't been informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u53	I know, Mr. President. I've asked. We have three very interesting parliamentary amendments. I know that Mr. Carras who raises a very important point. I would like you to tell me whether the Rules of Procedure will also be complied with in matters relating to the discussion of the amendments, where it provides for an autonomous discussion procedure. Finally, Mr President, I will conclude by saying something that may disturb you, but I would like to say it. I followed the procedure for parliamentary questions and was Mrs Connordou here on the part of the Ministry of Culture. I wanted to tell her - I was eating to do it - I will do so now that I have the floor, that the government should not take over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u54	Don't go into any other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u55	An artistic director must take SYRIZA as a triumph, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u56	All right, we're done. Mr. Loverdo, listen. The Rules of Procedure do not exactly provide for what they say. The decision is that we are talking about a package. However, my assessment - and I think I am going to be confirmed on the way - is that there will be time and time to finish today and at least the parliamentary representatives and the rapporteurs will be placed, if they so wish, for one or two or for all the amendments they want. But right now, we're going to get a package. That is, if the rapporteur of each party wants to speak about the amendments, he will be able to speak. In second reading now, because I think there will be time for the rapporteurs and Parliamentary Representatives, depending on who they want, to be able to speak specifically of one or two or the amendments they want. Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, with your permission, our view is that there is no particular reason why the legislative work should be pressed down. This is an extremely important piece of legislation not in its content, but in the matter it regulates. Unfortunately, in its content, we think that it is unfortunate and, in this case, we hope that through a long debate, but - I want to be honest - and through time to be given to the government in this three-day period to study what will be said in the parliamentary procedure, there will be some changes that will make it sustainable. On the other hand, if there is any reason why, in your judgment, which is always respected, we would have to end today, to discuss it. But we don't see it. That is why I would like to suggest that we do not rush and follow not just a loose one, but, if I may, a luxurious discussion process. After all, the government has announced this piece of legislation for two and a half years. He's bringing it right now. Why in one day? What's the point of discussing this in a day?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u58	Mr Tendas, first of all I would remind you that the decision of the Conference of Presidents is the debate at one or two meetings. Secondly, how long the Rules of Procedure will last, that is to say, your speeches. They're specified. I'm always up in the Chair, making a calculation. So I made a calculation with years of protology, dentistry of rapporteurs and parliamentary representatives and of up to twenty registered Members - it may be more than that, but I think it will be there - who will want to speak and be around eight to nine hours. So you realize that there is no time pressure. If we now need a small tolerance of one or two minutes to the rapporteurs and to the parliamentary representatives and it is also to the Minister, there will be this. But if we get to 10 o'clock at night or 9 o'clock, and we're done, what logic are we going to go to a second meeting? There is no logic of the second sitting. No time will be cut. Let's get started. I understand the spirit of your position. If necessary, we are here to make the decision then plenary. So, in principle, we agree with the proposal that I made and started with SYRIZA's general rapporteur, Mrs Theodora Jakri. Please, Mrs. Jackri, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill which is being introduced before us today to debate and finally to vote is the government's last attempt to tackle the problem of the overcompensation of tens of thousands of businesses, which have been affected by the use and, at the same time, to raise the productive fabric of the country by saving both businesses and all the workers in them. The bill therefore introduces an ex-judicial mechanism, which will for the first time place the company at the negotiating table with its creditors as an equal part, which seeks a solution, which will take place depending on the actual possibility of repayment of its debts and not as a poor relative who is begging for the mercy of its creditors, so that a temporary arrangement can be reached, and this one will find a property yet to bear, an additional guarantor to guarantee it. The draft law, which we are debating today, does not, however, transfer the automated, unavoidable bankruptcy of the company, as was the case with the other legislative initiatives by the previous governments - I shall mention the last of them, namely Law No.4307/2014, known as the Treasury - but demarcates a strict definition of the details of the company's negotiation phase with all its creditors - the public sector, banks and private creditors - by setting safeguards to avoid circumventing their orders by the so-called strategic misappropriators. Who's this about? What is the scope of this draft law? First of all, it concerns natural persons who are able to go bankrupt, that is, traders and all legal persons under commercial law, that is, companies under commercial law, be they personal companies, be they capital companies, since they have their tax base in Greece and debts up to 31-1-2016 of more than 20,000 euros. I would even say that this regulation is dictated by the structure of the Greek economy itself, since 99.6% of all enterprises are small and medium-sized enterprises, that is to say they have one to nine employees. Let me point out that only four hundred businesses in our country have more than two hundred fifty employees. Thus, the amount of their debts is around there, at 20,000 euros. These companies, while viable, faced a problem of liquidity, due to the inability of the banking system to respond to their statutory role, and thus to accumulate debts which cannot be dealt with and managed under the Bank's Code of Conduct. What companies, however, are part of this draft law? First of all, I would like to say that Article 1 separates enterprises according to their turnover, as well as their total liabilities, into two categories: large companies, to which are subject for the purposes of the draft law, those with a turnover of more than EUR 2,5 million or accumulated total debts of more than EUR 2 million. All other enterprises are considered small. And this separation is not neutral practical consequences. First of all, small enterprises do not need to be involved in the expert - and when this happens, it costs the process - while at the same time the process is more simplified in small enterprises and the deadlines at which the parties must act are shorter. A special reference should be made in the case of enterprises where debts of more than 85% are concentrated on a single creditor. And this category of companies is more concerned with small businesses, which have their debts concentrated on only one creditor, and this phenomenon is multiplied by the phenomenon, which we had in the past period, namely the merger of banks' portfolios or the acquisition of some of them by other banks, which increases the phenomenon of small businesses, which have their debts accumulated in only one creditor. In this case, too, the bilateral negotiation process is followed, i.e. following the submission of the request to the Special Secretariat for Private Debt Management is called upon by this creditor in bilateral negotiations, who will have to answer whether he accepts this procedure within three months, with the marking I have made in the four debates before, that he should definitely be involved as coordinator - mediator, in order to respect the process, the equality of the parties and in any event be able to comply with the deadlines laid down in this draft law. In fact, after consultation and extensive discussion with all the stakeholders, there is an important addition to this bill, which concerns self-employed professionals, namely lawyers, engineers, economists, accountants, etc., who are not traders and who do not have the ability to go bankrupt. They will now be able to benefit from the positive provisions of this Legislation on regulating their public and insurance liabilities, making use of the solutions provided for in Article 8 of this Legislation. Let me point out here that the biggest problem of free professionals who are self-employed is the debts they have mainly to the insurance funds and banks. Therefore, this gap is also covered, since they have the potential to make 'cut' and more doses to public and insurance funds, which is the biggest problem. With regard to their debts to the banks, self-employed free professionals with the revised framework of the law on overdue households can be subject to it. Therefore, the two bills - and the law on debts and the extrajudicial mechanism - operate in addition to them. I would like to point out that all these arrangements have been negotiated hard and long-term with all the parties involved - and with the institutions and with the banks, I would like to point out this - since the latter have made serious objections to the extension of the scope of this law to all the categories of companies that I have mentioned, on the pretext of allegedly burdening the system. It is clear, therefore, that our initial aim and aim was to integrate as many enterprises as possible into the provisions of this law, namely the extrajudicial mechanism procedure, and this objective was achieved to a large extent. That is why these rules were not provided for in the original text. Now, the eligibility criteria of an undertaking, in order to join the extrajudicial mechanism, are related to the system - simplistic or bibliographic - which each observes. Since, therefore, they are enterprises which maintain the simplified accounting system, they will be placed in the extrajudicial mechanism if they have a positive result before tax, interest and amortisation in at least one of the last three years prior to the submission of the request to the Private Debt Management Secretariat. Of those who maintain the bilingual system, those who have a positive effect before taxes, interest and depreciation or a purely positive position will be able to be covered by the Regulation. Let me say that the three uses are also included in the last of 2016, which has not yet been closed. It'll be closed in a month and a half, as the experts know. This was chosen, because the economic data, the 2016 economic data, as you can see, are better than the data that existed in the previous two years, that is, in 2014 and 2015. This point of the bill has been strongly criticised by everyone. To say, however, that if an undertaking has not succeeded in having even a positive use in the past four years, it is probably not sustainable and in this case it is very difficult to save, no matter how difficult it is. The key, therefore, to subjecting an undertaking to the extrajudicial mechanism is the viability of the undertaking. It is therefore, first of all, necessary to ensure that this operation is open, operates, or does not fall under the provisions of the bankruptcy law, that is to say, it will not have been subject to bankruptcy proceedings or to the provisions of the Law Treasury. I would like to make it clear here that the companies which are closed can also be subject to the provisions of this bill, as long as they make a statement to restart their work and, of course, they are considered viable. A special reference has also been received in this draft law to avoid circumvention of its provisions by the so-called ‘strategic malpractices’. Therefore, undertakings subject to the extra-judicial mechanism are those which have, on 31 December 2016 or ‘red’ a loan, or arrears of three consecutive months to a bank, or have settled their debts to banks after 1 July 2016, or have arrears to the insurance funds, or arrears to the Treasury, i.e. tax, or have been adopted to their detriment due to uncovered cheques, or a judicial decision on late debt at that time. The protection of the bill by natural persons and by legal persons whose President, CEO, or their administrator have been sentenced to an irrevocable judicial decision to one of the economic crimes provided for in this article, which is the misappropriation, fraud, extortion, forgery, corruption, smuggling, and the smuggling of creditors, are excluded. This regulation dictates precisely, in order not to reward once again the illegal, i.e. the abusers of the public and others, whose illegal acts have irrevocably imposed an undetermined number of members of the social system. As far as the crucial question of which debts are being regulated is concerned, the answer is simple and it is: all the debts. Therefore, it is all banks' debts, even if they are under special liquidation, even the debts to the leasing companies - and business requirements, as well as public and insurance funds, even to legal entities governed by public law, such as local authorities and, of course, private creditors. With regard to the debts to the banks, it should be noted that, as soon as the banks come to the negotiating table, all interest on late payment is deleted. In addition, the nature of these debts is indifferent, that is to say, debts arising from all types of loans or credits arising from business loans or general contracts according to the business activity of the undertaking, whether or not. In other words, they are part of the extrajudicial regulation and housing or repair loans from companies. This addition is not only due to legal findings. It is known to the lawyers that, for the sake of commerciality of any kind, debts and loans received from a trader are considered to have been received for the sake of marketing and should be treated as such. It is also well known that in most cases housing and repairs, mainly provided to entrepreneurs, were used for the needs of the firm itself. This has been done, or - to say so more correctly - with the joint consent of the banks, which have been painted in housing. However, even if this were the case, if the banks which provided them do not cooperate to help rescue the company, which is the sole source of business revenue, then they will achieve no benefit. Why am I saying that? For their own choice in this case is to auction the mortgage-backed properties of the debtor, despite the fact that it has an uncertain economic effect, because we know that in many cases and in many parts of the country the commercial values of the property are below the objective because the costs of the auction are huge and we also know very well that it is from little to noon the market interest in any type of property. Then they regulate the debts to the State, to the tax administration, the insurance funds, but also the local authorities, even the VAT debts - provided that it has not been collected - and only the public debts for the recovery of state guarantees are regulated. Negotiations with the State will begin by deleting 95% of the fines imposed by the tax administration and 85% of the public and social security claims from increases or non-pre-paid interest. The only public debts which will not be negotiated are the debts of contributions to workers, because the rights of workers should not be placed under any kind of negotiation. The important thing, of course, is not that public debts can be regulated, but that the public is directly obliged to negotiate, otherwise it will be taken up by a regulation in which it does not express its views. The inclusion of public debts and the flexibility provided towards this even deletion of business debts is an excellent step which, in itself, can ensure the success of this draft law. This is the first time that the Greek Government has recognised that the public interest, in other words, the interest of the many - in that sense - is in the interest of protecting the businesses themselves and the jobs of the workers themselves as we all understand it and not just the public's cash needs. We also know that, in no way, the public's cash requirements cannot be met if the company is not protected if the operator is not protected unless the workers are protected. Furthermore, the content of the agreement on the extrajudicial settlement may be whatever the parties agree and shall be based on the actual possibilities of repayment of the company. It can therefore be agreed to 'cut', reduce the interest rate, more instalments, extend the repayment period, period of grace, anything. The most important thing is that companies will be able to draw liquidity from the banking system. It is the so-called ‘new money’ within the framework of the restructuring agreement on their debts in order to ensure their viability and continuity. This will make a decisive contribution to the regulation which will come in about fifteen days from the Ministry of Justice and will ensure that it is not only for bank officials but also for public representatives who will ultimately sign the restructuring contract. Only 50% of all creditors have to sit at the negotiating table if the process is to begin and if we have a restructuring agreement and an end to this process is to agree 60% of the participants. In short, the law puts everyone - apart from micro-creditors - the dilemma: You will come to negotiate or stay out of the process and you will be forced to follow what others decide about you without you. Now, with regard to the procedure to say first of all that it is conducted through a digital electronic reporting platform and the processing of the application held by the Private Debt Management Secretariat. This platform, as the Special Secretariat and the Minister have told us, will also be in touch with the TAXIS and with the CECO, and indeed with regard to the data relating to the liabilities of companies to the public sector, without having to produce hard copy. Of course, in order to complete the system, banks should prepare their own computer system to chat with the electronic platform of the Private Debt Management Secretariat. In fact, the Special Secretary and the Government are committed to everyone that this information system will be ready in three months from the adoption of this draft law and, in fact, in one month, the demo will also be presented to us by the Special Secretariat. I would also like to point out that there is only the possibility of ratifying this restructuring agreement by the locally-owned multi-faceted court, which will only consider compliance with the formal requirements of this draft law and not a substantial assessment of the restructuring plan. I must point out that this is the first time that legislative power does not put the burden on the judges, assuming that they also have economic knowledge, but also business experience to judge such restructuring plans and such agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u60	Finish it, Mrs. Jackie.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u61	I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. This possibility of ratifying the agreement shall be open to any debtor or creditor in order to commit non-participants, but also to non-participating creditors. In fact, with an amendment which the Minister has told us during the debate in the Commission and which he intends to bring, an automated procedure can be introduced. Minister, I do not know if you will be tabling this amendment today. If there is no deletion of a debt of a non-Contracting creditor, and if no objections have been raised, the hearing may not be followed at the audience, but the ratification shall be carried out by a single judge. With regard to the suspension of the evidence for seventy days from the invitation to creditors, which can, in fact, be extended by four months by decision of the Court of First Instance under the procedure for interim measures, and this is a procedure which, in my view, is, in essence, another means of pressure from its creditors to negotiate and try to reach a commonly accepted solution for the restructuring of its debts. Ladies and gentlemen, of all the above, it is clear that this bill does not simply aspire to be another failed attempt to tackle the problem of company overcompensation, which would otherwise put a padlock and lead thousands of workers in despair, but to ensure that, not only their rescue but also their continuity, while at the same time saving workers' jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty-eight students and students and four educational sessions of the Athens Municipal School. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The House also welcomes parents and teachers attending the right theories from the Municipal School of Hanging Rhodes. Welcome to Athens. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] The rapporteur, Mr Georgiodas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I will begin by addressing you, because we are once again observing a procedure which, from the government's point of view, does not respect any institutional framework. In order to be understandable, serious amendments to the draft law were announced on the part of the rapporteur for the Coupling, which is indiscriminately the rest of Parliament's parties. I, as rapporteur for the Opposition at the moment, have nothing in my hands than very serious has been announced, either for the free professions or for the businesses that have ceased their activities.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u64	When?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u65	It's announced. It was announced by Mrs Jackson that the Minister intends to bring it. I guess he said it as a given he's coming. When will he comment on it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Georgiod, stop your speech for a minute. I'll close your time. Minister, is there this given that your Members are aware of the intentions you have to change things, but which the rest of the House does not know? Because if that is the case, Mr Georgades will, by way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure, sit down and you will take the floor for five minutes to tell us the changes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, I have referred to what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u68	I don't care where you guys are. I have heard that the Minister intends to make changes. If that is the case, the Minister will now make the changes, tell who they are.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u69	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u70	You don't have the floor. I'm asking the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u71	But I have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u72	Tell us, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u73	Legislative improvements...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u74	That's all. We are not talking about legislative improvements. Legislative and legislative improvements - which are the right term - are another thing. You'll testify them, they'll be copied, and they'll be shared. We are talking here about whether there are any changes to the substance of the bill. If they exist, you'll tell us now. If they don't exist and you're talking about law school, okay, no matter what.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u75	The free professionals...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u76	Please don't talk, Mr. Amyras. I asked the Minister. Let her answer. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u77	On the substance, there are only two changes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u78	Good. I'm putting you five minutes. Mr. Georganta, so you don't stand there silent, please sit down. Minister, you have five minutes to tell us and if it takes longer, you will have the time. Here, Minister, we are listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, the first improvement has to do with companies that are inactive and have stopped their activities. The bill allows these enterprises to start work and then to join the extrajudicial mechanism. The second amendment...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u80	Not to say an amendment. It's better than the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u81	Sorry, improvement. As you know, I've been in America for 50 years and still the Greeks aren't what they should be. The second improvement relates to the ombudsman, who has the ability to verify the data. The third improvement has to do with the coordinators for whom the 320 cap has been put, but if necessary, the bill allows the Private Debt Management Special Secretariat to increase this number.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u82	I should like to ask you as soon as possible to formulate them in writing, to be submitted to photocopies and to share them. All Members have tasted on the substance, so that they can take it into account in their position. However, as soon as possible, prepare them to be submitted to the Minutes. Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor in the first place, and I apologise for bringing you up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, thank you very much. Finally, what I think the whole House has found a moment ago is the sloppyness with which the government sees this bill. So much serious and substantial changes we have heard in summarying, without knowing exactly what they identify, what they include, what they define. I have to put myself on what I have heard from the rapporteur for the Coupling and on what publications are currently on a number of information websites. Because there are also such publications today. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, this government has an obsession with changing the concept of words. Why am I saying that? The title of today's bill is "executional mechanism". Nor is it out-of-court mechanism at the moment. Is the mechanism which ends in the country's first instances extrajudicial? Is it a simplification of procedures which will help to restore the economy to a process that has nineteen stages, for which twenty-five supporting documents are provided? Is it a serious and responsible attitude by a government to a bill which has been announced for two years as the bill that will help businesses that have a prospect of viability, but also the banking system, that the electronic platform that we all know is necessary and necessary should not be in operation so that the system can function and not be blocked? A moment ago, we once again had the commitment - and the Committees were told - that the platform will be ready within three months. What is the basis of such a commitment? The Banking Union, which finances this tool, came into Parliament's committee and said the most optimistic scenario is for the autumn, but let the electronic platform be completed in one year from today. Will professionals with certificates be running in their hands and papers in one year, i.e. with written procedures, to submit their applications? Is it a serious issue and a prospect, in which there would also be support for the opposition parties, in order to really find a way of rationalised, quick, realistic and to be able to really relieve people who have been struggling for these years and who have been trying to save their businesses? There's too much evidence in this bill that lets us down. In relation to its prospects and the potential it could have, we believe that, unfortunately, it has already managed to create a confusion in the market. The confusion is not just about the fact that we do not know exactly what the process will be and how it will go. A first confusion which arises - I, at least, have been aroused by it - concerns companies which have the opportunity to join. I read in Article 2 that there must be arrears of ninety days or these debts must have been adjusted from 1 July 2016 onwards. I ask, Minister - and if I do not understand it correctly - why should you clarify this - that: The professional who labored and blooded his debts before 1 July 2016 does not have the right to enter this procedure? I challenge someone to answer from the government's side. The businessman who managed in July and regulated his debts can't get into this bill? That is a first question. Secondly, where and yet in this way does the government declare a burden and interest haircut? Does that result from the text of the bill? Does this result as a commitment, as compulsory treatment on the part of the lenders, to the one who has received the loan? The main argument that is being made relates to the 'Tendas Law', which allegedly did not work because it was not - they say - compulsory. Good! So let someone tell me how all creditors are forced to make the haircut of any interest or charges. It merely states in Article 9 that when creditors find that it is not possible to repay all their debts, they can reduce their interest and charges or'saving' them and completely - this is the 'tie' which is heard by all professionals - and only the capital is paid. With what rules? What objective criteria are there for this approach for this choice of creditors? A professional who says he can pay a certain amount every month, and with that he can serve only his capital, he can hear the opposite "Good! Let's pay for all these years, so you can pay interest." Where does it appear to be a haircut? Where does the mandatory rules come from? So I'll tell someone and I in my dentistry that it was me who didn't understand it well. So for me, Article 9 is very clear. Thirdly - and very importantly - it is this: we are trying - to exclude strategic malpractices. Listen to an article in the bill: "It is possible for anyone who has a profitable use..." - let me say it this way - 'from the three previous ones since the day of his application'. Ms. Jackri said earlier that the last use is the 2016 one that will be finalised within a few days, a few weeks. It's not like that, Mrs. Jackie. The last use, according to the law, is the use of 2017 that is still under way. When applications can be made by 31 December 2018 and I want to appear in 2017 profitable, while I am a strategic poor payer, I appear profitable in 2017, I apply in 2018 and I enter the protection of the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u84	You don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u85	I totally get it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u86	Mrs. Jackie, no one interrupted you. Don't interrupt again.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u87	You must be ‘red’ until 31-12-2016.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u88	Don't answer, Mr. Georganta. Mrs. Jackie, don't interrupt again. Don't interrupt again!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u89	He mentioned my name, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u90	Not everyone agreed with what you were saying, but nobody interrupted you. Continue, Mr. Georgioda.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. I have debts until December 31, 2016, as foreseen by the law. They tell me: three uses before, one to be profitable. I ask you: Does anyone use 2017 exclude it? If I decide to make my application in 2018, can I not configure my use in 2017? Somebody answer me on this. Is that negligent? Did you miss it? I told you in committee, Minister. I didn't get a reply. Does it serve any purpose? Shouldn't we know? Should the conditions for joining this law not be with the data on the day of the law? On the day of the vote. Is it possible to allow the other person to shape the preconditions? They are questions which I think are reasonably asked and which we really want to answer. If they do not respond, it is not simply that we cannot support this draft legislation, that is to say, many issues relating to the feasibility of this regulation and the provisions in question. I shall refer to those who have the right to join. We heard a moment ago that the free traders will have the right. We just heard it. We didn't see it. We, since you have decided to have all the debts as you have identified them, believe that both the loans of farmers and farmers and free traders - once you have opened the framework - could also join them. But the basic for us is one: Firstly, to start the implementation of the law at the same time as the operation of the electronic platform. It is necessary to ensure that the system is not blocked and that a quick choice is made, that the responsible coordinator is quickly cleared, that the documents can be confirmed so that we can move forward. Secondly, for cases of 20,000 to 50,000 debts where the sums are less - perhaps less creditors, perhaps one creditor or two - the procedure should really be over-simplified. We may not have to go to a court there to ratify the agreement that has been made. I think that as long as you have 20,000 to 50,000 actually the same way of dealing with the debts of more than 50,000 or million, issues will arise. Of course, because we know - those who know from the fighting law - what it means right now in the first instance, I have my doubts whether the first instances will be able to serve the multitude of applications that will be submitted. The aim of this bill should really be to relaunch the economy. What is being achieved, however, at the moment with this bill - which is characterised by a terrible bureaucracy, by a splendid context, through which the businessman must attempt to shape the conditions that will enable him to know his obligations for the future and serve them - will ultimately be a dead end. It will simply make use of the specific provisions of this bill by some strategic mispaid for the first few months, to which are the suspensions of persecution. Then we think it won't work after all. The results once again from this wrong political choice are results which the next government will see, because I think, not strictly, not untargetly, you have left as room for imposing these applications on 31-12-2018. You are the only one that you are creating is a negotiating framework, which is what was possible today. You're not creating anything new with a mandatory nature. You are creating a framework for negotiation, which is entirely dependent on the will of members and their decision and their desire to eventually hollow or not to hollow part of their debts. At the same time, you rightly give the opportunity to the person who does not agree to refer the matter to the courts. We have the feeling and the impression that since no objective criteria have been laid down, certain rules which are mandatory for the parties involved will not at all be able to serve the feasibility of the bill. We have also heard today that, within the next 15 days, the amendment which is expected from the Ministry of Justice will come in relation to the impunity, or I do not know what else, of the bank officials or of the representatives of the public who will be involved in this process. We hear that. I think that it should be along with this draft law that any regulation should come to see if we really can afford the capacity and the opportunity and the initiative to a bank manager or a public representative to make this 'cut' that you promise, so that we can see whether this system really works now. As long as we leave this again in the future, as long as it is clear how this will be determined, we think it will be an inactive bill again. Minister, this bill is expected by business, commercial world, farmers, free professionals - regardless of which you do not involve everyone at this moment - for the last two years or so. It is a bill that, on preconditions and with the consent, I repeat, all the political parties could actually give a real chance of restarting business in the years of the crisis. I'm doing a parentheses here. In three years, I don't understand it. It could be the seven years or eight years since the start of the use of time in which we had to find the businesses which, with specific features, would have been entitled to benefit from the provisions of the law. Right now, all that's going to be on the move is the professionals who run to get their papers. That's the only move there's gonna be. So this move will be made and those who have really tried all this time consistently and with sacrifices to keep their businesses and will take advantage of the provisions of the law by poorly-paid professionals who do not need to have a particular invention to do so, since the provisions of the law themselves allow them to do so. Finally, I think that with all this, we will lose a great opportunity, while at the same time we can create other market issues, as healthy competition, which will have to work, does not work. Once again, this draft law does not allow competition to function in relation to the companies that are in the process, and on the contrary some will take advantage of these conditions, so that other issues can be raised from those which are currently on the market. You have the opportunity, Minister, to bring in substantial regulations and amendments to the spirit of the bill and to the interventions to be made and the procedure to be followed. We are not negative in a bill that will give professionals and entrepreneurs a solution. We are opposed to this false bill called the 'exit mechanism' which, as I said before, does not describe any substantial mechanism. What it simply describes is a consultation mechanism which must go to the courts too to be ratified. We know very well where this will lead. We know very well that with the prerequisites required in relation to the documents, this will ultimately be incomplete. Unfortunately - for us, thankfully for the Greeks - once again the New Democracy will be called upon to give a solution to this too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u92	I too, Mr Colleague, because you were very consistent in your time. The reason is the special speaker from the PASOK Democratic Association - DIMAR Mr. Georgios Arvanitidis. I would like to wish him "happy years" for his festivities. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u93	Be well, Mr President! Thank you for your wishes. Happy birthday to everyone! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have said in committee, the out-of-court compromise and the treatment of red loans is a basic condition for the recovery of the economy and perhaps of the few opportunities we have at this time. That is why the political forces must be consulted so that we can get the loop out of the neck of the real economy. If we don't manage, then we won't just talk about market stagnation, but about collapse. You know, ladies and gentlemen, how the companies that are forced to repay loans are surviving, and at the same time the banks cannot refinance them? They just stop paying because if the company's capital is missing from its work, then we will be talking about collapse. Who's that bad payers? The people who, due to the capital controls and the failure of the banking system, keep the funds in their business to work? Let us stop swinging the finger anymore in the real economy and the people who give the battle for survival. Secondly, I would like to say that I am very pleased Do you know how many people found themselves incapable of paying for their lending, just because by falling property value their banks asked for more guarantees they didn't have? There was nothing wrong with the operation of businesses, just at some point, because of the falling value of real estate and guarantees, they were invited to come and put on other guarantees they did not have. Let us understand what the daily lives of entrepreneurs are and let us understand that without businesses, without entrepreneurship, there is no economy. If today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, does not solve the huge economic and social problem of private debt, which is borne by businesses and entrepreneurs, the only tool we have will be to sell the loans from the banks. This is something that is no longer of interest to anyone, it is not of interest either to borrowers or to banks. The first ones will be destroyed if we go to mass liquidation and the second ones register significant losses in their balance sheets, with what this may mean for the stability of the banking system. That is why, in our proposal on red business loans, the main pillar is the Enterprise Reconstruction Fund. However, since our proposal is much wider than this draft law, I will focus on today's bill, what we define as the title: 'Exit settlement'. The big question, therefore, is how the bill will achieve its objectives. The objectives are two: firstly, to integrate as many businesses and professionals as possible into this new mechanism and, secondly, how to make this mechanism effective and fast. I'll take steps one, one to be clear as far as possible: I am starting with the first objective in terms of the amount of loans to be settled. The agreement of banks with the Single Supervisory Mechanism of the European Central Bank provides for the settlement of red loans of 40 billion until 2019. Of these 58% of settlement will come from red business loans. In practical terms, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, within the next two years, a solution must be made for red business loans amounting to EUR 23.2 billion. Now let's go see how red business loans are structured. According to the Bank of Greece data in the third quarter of 2016, the total red business loans in the country amounted to 65 billion, of which 40 billion relate to micro and small enterprises’ loans. So we are saying that the category of these borrowers is 60% of the total. What does that mean? It means that if we were to give a solution to half the red loans from small and medium-sized enterprises, we would have covered the target. The big question, then, is whether we can do it. Unfortunately, as I see it, the bill is structured and I cannot explain why. I'm starting with the quantitative data. I asked the committee to have a base scenario with some simple elements, how many companies can enter the extrajudicial compromise, how many can a good and sustainable agreement be reached, what amount will it be for the loans that will be regulated and which companies will in particular come from, if they are small, small or medium-sized enterprises? The Minister has said that the regulation relates theoretically to at least 400 000 businesses, without being able to give us any other element. But I will tell you that there is a post in the NAYTTERIC newspaper recently, a few days ago, in April, which is quite interesting. I can submit it to the Minutes. This post invokes the relevant mapping by banks themselves to see how many red-loans companies are viable if the loans are set. Do you know what the result is? Seven out of ten red-loans enterprises estimate that banks are viable if their loans are regulated. Do you understand the target? Seven out of ten companies can relive, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, in some sectors such as tourism and focus, this resilience is rising, as sustainable, nine out of ten companies, almost all of the industry. If, then, we accept that these figures are reliable, what matters to see is whether the mechanism proposed by the government can serve this objective, can do the job. With just math, the way the bill is, there's a problem. If we assume that the next two, two and a half years have seven hundred working days, so that the extrajudicial mechanism can carry out two hundred or four hundred applications every day, five hundred seventy seventy, if they are four hundred thousand applications, or about half, two hundred and eighty or as long as they are. Do you understand that size? If two hundred thousand companies apply for regulation, they must each day be regulated close to the two hundred eighty with about three hundred applications. Of these, 70% must be successful in getting the targets. So we're talking about four hundred operations with successful regulation every day. It is a huge target with the proposed structures. So if we want to be realistic, we need a mechanism that can do a substantial job without unnecessary delays. Here is the first major problem, because the mechanism you are proposing is ineffective and in many cases ineffective. I am referring to specific cases, which we have repeatedly pointed out to you: the companies that owe more than 85% of their obligations to a creditor, which you are simply referring to in bilateral negotiations, the limited number of coordinators in three hundred twenty - I am pleased today, Minister, that you understood the problem and gave the opportunity and I hope that the number will be unlimited or in line with the requests made to run this bill - and the lack of a substantial process of binding mediation. I also note the time-consuming process of judicial ratification. If we do not overcome these obstacles, neither the beneficiaries of the bill will help nor will we be able to help those you leave out. I am thinking above all of the free professionals, farmers, farmers and fishermen who, unfortunately, cannot regulate their debts to the banks, the public, the funds and their creditors. That is why we tabled ten specific proposals as a Democratic Assent, which we believe will contribute positively to the draft law. In order not to remain in the words, we have also tabled an amendment to our proposals, which we invite you to accept. So I repeat these ten points: Firstly, to include a company in the extrajudicial compromise we are proposing that we need a profitable use - I am referring to operating profits, of course, over the last five years - and that the turnover should also be taken into account in the event that the company was not profitable. In our view, the provision in the bills for a profitable use in the last three years, without any other criterion, will exclude a very large proportion of companies which can actually be liquidated to move forward. You cannot put such severe restrictions on an economy that is submerged in the recession, an economy with banks essentially closed down. Secondly, we are proposing the creation of a special irreversible account for entrepreneurs, professionals and farmers. Finally, Minister, the government needs to respond because it does not adopt the proposal of an irresponsible business account. Someone has to answer. No, just listen to it and get over it. If we want to talk about restarting the economy and really an out-of-court compromise, there should also be the necessary conditions to protect the business. It is not possible for an entrepreneur to go into negotiation with a loop in the neck. We therefore call for an irreversible business account of natural and legal persons, through which specific management operations will be carried out: revenues from transactions via POS or electronic transactions, the payment of employees' wages, the payment of insurance contributions and public obligations, the payment of rents, AEKO accounts and suppliers and reasonable living expenses of the operator. Thirdly, we propose that all accredited ombudsmen of the Ministry of Justice be included in the register of coordinators. You've already answered this. I think we are in the right direction. Fourthly, we are proposing to introduce a mediation procedure with enforceable and binding content for the parties, so that the bilateral negotiation between the creditor and the debtor can take place when the latter owes more than 85% of its obligations to a single creditor. These debtors are usually microprofessionals who have traded a working capital with a bank, but because of the merger of banks too many entrepreneurs have been found to have loans to different banks, but after the mergers they have been borrowed by a bank. I think that we need to find a way of regulating this development. If, of course, it was so simple and it was only a matter of direction to find these creditors and debtors, then they would have been resolved by a bilateral negotiation between the debtors and the lenders. Let us not forget, Minister, that this category is, as I have said, small and medium-sized enterprises. Fifthly, we are proposing that the minutes of the agreement should be ratified by means of a simple deposit with the court secretariat or even a provision of a judge, as is the case with the establishment of a union and the issue of an inheritance. It is a procedure that is laid down in our law and will in particular simplify these procedures. Because if we stay in the proceedings of the Multilateral Court of First Instance, even in six years, these procedures will not be completed. Sixthly, we propose that there should be special care for contributors and guarantors of loans that are not related to the operation of the operation. It is unfair for some who have not been involved in business decisions to have the same treatment as those responsible for the business's course. Seventhly, we are proposing to allow the extrajudicial compromise, with the normal procedure, to be entered into by the free traders so that they can regulate all their debts to creditors, suppliers, public and insurance funds. Right now, as the layout is, we're just talking about wishing. We must wait for the ministerial decision which, of course, no one knows the contents of it in future. Of course, if that is the case, it will only concern public and funds. There will be no possibility for loans and creditors. Eighthly, we are proposing that the extrajudicial compromise and farmers, farmers, fishermen, in line with our proposal for free traders, should be included. The blockades don't solve any problems. They can only increase problems. Ninth, we are proposing to allow the extrajudicial compromise to be introduced to those businesses that have moved into regulation before July 2016. You have been told by the institutions that this exclusion is unfair. There's no reason these people won't enter the extrajudicial compromise. Finally, we are proposing to allow the extrajudicial compromise to be entered and to those businesses that went from 2009 onwards to the closure of work. We are pleased to see the proposal adopted. It was a proposal that we made in the committees. Minister, what you have announced really is in the right direction. If we want, ladies and gentlemen, to speak of a second opportunity to honest businessmen who have fought but have not succeeded, then the arrangements we are proposing can give a very important and positive signal in this direction. I repeat, Minister, that if you accept our proposals, we shall vote for the bill. But I would like to close my speech by asking again questions. Reiterate this question: What about a borrower who had loans from many banks that were merged? On the basis of this bill, will it be able to join? Is it going to enter the normal process or bilateral negotiation involving 85% of a debtor? The second question has to do with what you are thinking about doing with socially beneficial institutions that are not included in the provisions of this bill. We've been involved in the committee. At the moment, institutions with liabilities cannot obtain tax and insurance information. Therefore, they cannot make use of their property. I think, Minister, that there can be some care in this direction. Of course, we believe that the amendment tabled by the Independent MEP, George Karras, on the separation of the contributor from the guarantor, is in a positive direction so that the latter can benefit from wider protection. Minister, in conclusion, I would like to tell you that if you do not make any changes to serve the objectives set by your bill, then this bill will simply express the will of the legislator and solve no problems at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u94	Mrs Eleni Zarulia has the floor on behalf of the Golden Dawn. Mrs Zaroulia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. In order to complete the procedure at a meeting, as you wish, the essential condition is to keep the speaking time. The speakers are about thirty-three if they are not already there.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u96	Forty-one are the speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u97	Forty-one! Good. The Golden Dawn, fully aware of the deadlock in which the indebted enterprises have arrived and the urgent need to find a reliable and practicable solution to this problem, has maintained from the outset and in the whole process of drafting the draft law at committee meetings, a attitude that is responsible, trying to find out whether the proposed provisions really meet the expectations of business and professional sectors of the market for the establishment of a sustainable debt settlement plan. Unfortunately, however, as has emerged from the thorough analysis of the individual articles, from the objections of the representatives of the bodies, but also from the insufficient positions and answers of the government MPs at the committee meeting, the bill itself contains shortcomings, ambiguities, vagueness, vagueness and a number of problematic provisions, which ultimately announce and annul its intended purpose. So in the shadow of the new measures we are now being called upon to vote on the bill on euphemistically extrajudicial compromise to regulate companies' debts to funds, taxes and banks. If this circumstance does not confirm our initial position, if the imposition of new heavier measures by foreign lenders does not constitute an assumption of what we are making for so long, then what is it? As early as the first meeting of the committee, we have clearly stated that this draft law only concerns few businesses because of the strict conditions for joining the regulation, on the other hand, the few companies that will be integrated will only be able to consistently comply with the regulation for a few months. This is a logical sequence, because when a society is being narrowed and granted as a saving board a supposedly favourable debt arrangement - and I will explain this below - when growth is not even seen as an idea in the country, then tax raids will certainly be such a high level that no one can withstand, it is assumed that the companies that will benefit will fall out of regulation. The worst thing, however, is that with the new measures that will come and you will vote and the Prime Minister will support the opposite - and this is not the first time that you have committed yourself to the Greek people at the same time as being subjected to the foreign centres that are directing you - you will therefore condemn Greece in a fourth memorandum. The truth is that the provisions of the bill are problematic as far as the conditions are concerned for the integration of enterprises into the regulation and the position of the debtor in relation to its creditor, i.e. banks. It is interesting, therefore, before we get to the essence of the bill to stand at Mr Drasakis' meeting with the bankers. Let me say here in order to remove any impressions that were created in the committee when the Government accused New Democracy of being with capital and supporting banks, that the government does the same thing with the persons to whom it has already granted amnesia in its examination of the lending of parties and SMEs. In an absolute joint government and opposition and with the only voice of reaction to the voice of the Golden Dawn, they decided that no illegally committed and no damage took place. This, of course, was not in return. The media then rewarded you. Your affection, your absolute subjection, the concession of national sovereignty is now presented by means as something perfectly normal. That's the drama. Media highlight the fact that a memorandum of European institutions came, another painful package for the Greek people, a text in English directly from the IMF as an act of procedural procedure, which the Greek Government must accept and show no substantial resistance. But what you want to achieve is to make the Greek citizen feel like a slave to a otherwise united Europe. We tell you that you will not succeed as much as you try, because the Greeks have dignity and self-respect and how your subjection will deplore it when the time comes. A lot of reason has been made for the primary surplus of 2016, which was formed at 3.2% of GDP. The paradox is that, at the same time, the representative of the European Commission, Mr Margaritis Schinnas, said that the surplus, based on the definition of the programme, amounted to 4.2% of GDP. There is one ambiguity in the amount of the surplus. Regardless of this, however, no one says that the new measures have cuts of 2% of GDP by abolishing the personal difference in the already paid pensions in 2019 and toweling the tax at EUR 5,600 in 2020. Yes, but Greece has the highest debt far from the rest of the Member States at 179% of GDP. It seems that everything I say has nothing to do with the bill under discussion. On the substance, however, it is the core of the bill. We are talking about how thousands of businesses will be saved in a collapsed economy. They won't be saved. They're just going to be given a little prolongation. Even this extension, as you say here, will be given only if they have a positive use in the last three years. They came in and stated that it is practically impossible to find businesses with a positive use from 2013 to 2016. Is it possible for a company to be profitable a year and the next year to have finished? The regulations of the bill should concern people who have been struggling for the past seven years, barely survive and are trying to withstand the Memorandum neck. There were no companies exposed to banks and funds overnight. Therefore, the three-year requirement can only occupy a minimum of undertakings. The proposal of the Golden Dawn is either to remove this condition of Article 3 or amend it by increasing the time margin. Instead of being subject to the firms in difficulty over the last three years, they have been able to benefit from this law from the operations of the last seven years. One thing also needs to be pointed out is that there is a need to remove the limitation of the list of ombudsmen and to include all certified ombudsmen to speed up the process. In addition to the coordinators, which you said earlier, the ombudsmen must also be increased. It is a pretext that the bill suffers because, with a careful study and analysis of the individual articles, it is concluded that the proposed draft law excludes a large proportion of businesses and debtors from the possibility of being included in the proposed regulation, especially as regards the issue of red agricultural loans, which have led to the brink of impoverishment and economic destruction, the majority of the agricultural and livestock sectors involved. This draft law does not provide the most indebted farmers and farmers, nor does it provide the minimum protection for freelance professionals, as we have heard the SYRIZA rapporteur tell us before that it concerns freelance professionals, economists and lawyers. However, during her speech, she said that this bill concerns small and medium-sized enterprises, to correct immediately and to say small and medium-sized ones. "Lingua, enchanting the truth, he says." He has revealed to us that, in essence, this bill will serve and will benefit only large businesses. For farmers and farmers who are indebted to them, this bill does not provide for regulations or minimum protection for the professions concerned, in accordance with paragraph 21 of Article 15, excluding them completely from any possibility of favourable and sustainable regulation of their debts. Furthermore, there is an attempt to alter legal concepts, not to say effectively the abolition of the Civil Code. I refer to Article 1, paragraph (c), that you are giving the nomination of the conciliator. The concept of the conciliator includes the guarantor. The right to a divorce is a basic principle of the Civil Code and the resignation of the guarantor has been declared unlawful by court rulings. Unaware of these decisions, because your bills come ready under English law, it constitutes at least a violation of the independence of powers and a tendency to impose on judicial authority. This is the result of another provision. We have spoken about it in committee, but it is appropriate to mention it again. Article 13 provides correctly for the possibility of suspending the prosecution measures to those debtors who have been requested to join the arrangement. However, creditors - the last subparagraph of Article 13(4) - are entitled to request the suspension of the measures and the court is obliged to follow them without any possibility of diverging them. At another point in the bill, without any account being taken of the country's economic situation, but also of the real purpose of the provisions, it is laid down that the debts are revived if the debtor fails to meet his current obligations towards the public. It is certain that under the present circumstances most - if not all - will be able to cope with the undertakings which will be included in the regulation only in the initial instalments and subsequently pass the regulation. The only thing is certain that the current debts, the fixed costs of these enterprises, but also the need to cover them through the professional activity of the basic living needs of professionals, will lead them to suffocating financial pressure and, ultimately, any attempt to integrate into the regulation will end up out of purpose. It should be pointed out that, in essence, the proposed rules do not constitute an out-of-court settlement of debts, since they make the Multiple First Chambers responsible for what this entails. In conclusion, it can be said that bureaucratic formalities, the involvement of the judicial authorities in a procedure which in the end only in name is 'trial' and the eligibility criteria which automatically dismantle the large majority of the debtors concerned, are only some of the reasons why they are going to make the proposed provisions in fact insecure, ineffective and ineffective. To sum up, what Golden Dawn supports and is our permanent position is that the policies you follow make the bills of this kind in formal provisions that cannot be implemented, serve other purposes and are dictated by foreign bosses. They maintain the Greek taxpayer in a binding situation vis-à-vis the banks, the funds, with high insurance requirements, and the government which imposes great taxation. The sad thing is that all the post-government governments are exhausting their rigour to the Greek taxpayer and they are looking after every irregular immigrant who is unfavorable. The only solution to alleviate Greek society from the bloody tax measures of the memoranda is a national government which will prioritise the good of the country as well as of all Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Zaroulia. Mr Athanasios Vardalis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Through the debate on this bill both in the Commission and in the House, it seems to us that it is clear what the government's concern and the other parties in the opposition are, above all, through the improvements they have put forward in this bill, but also in general by their attitude towards it. What's their concern? Taking all of them into account that the capitalist economic crisis has been evolving in our country for eight years now, with the extrajudicial compromise to deal with aspects of these effects for businesses, contributing, as they say, to the relaunch of the economy. Who are these sides they want to deal with? First of all, the launching of businesses' debts, the restructuring of the banks' portfolio, the controlled digging-off of firms in difficulty, on the basis, of course, of their viability, namely to clear up the market from non-sustainable enterprises, and the restructuring of debts in such a way that no creditor is found to be more advantageous than the other creditor in sharing the cake. Practically, that is, the Government, the European Union and the International Monetary Fund - because this bill is prerequisite - alongside the treatment of red loans, which is a necessity for capital, the strengthening of the bank portfolio, they want to see on the basis of which companies are viable, what they have in the future, what they deserve to deal with, ensuring the profitability of the businesses that still have bread. For the rest, which will, of course, be the small and the self-employed, 'cement to be done'! Let them go through this jungle and the impeccable capitalist competition. Only these businesses - and I stress it, just those - which are competitive today, can be profitable and have come the future of the extrajudicial compromise - at less natural cost - to help them regulate their debts to private individuals - especially banks - the public and the insurance funds. All parties, but also operators of businessmen, are in agreement with these objectives and have made a number of proposals to make the bill more effective. However, if one reads these proposals from the rest of the parties and especially the BSE - the Greek Industrial Association - one will easily find that there is a channel of understanding between one another, in the same sense, in the same direction. On substance, there is agreement between them, despite any criticism of individual issues. Even parties who have said today that they will not vote for this bill, are making a criticism of it, because they believe that this cannot achieve the objectives which are the same as those of the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u100	Mr. Bardalis, I'm sorry, I'm gonna interrupt you for thirty seconds. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theory, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS", 50 students and students and three educational attendants from the 1st Municipal School of Kremasti Rhodes. After we welcomed the parents, we also welcome the children who have flooded the upper Western theories. Welcome to the House! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Thank you, Mr Vardalis, keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u101	We as a Communist Party of Greece, addressing mainly the self-employed and micro-enterprises, to whom all other parties say that the extra-judicial compromise concerns them as well and that it is mainly to get rid of their hard debts, we want to tell them the following: Firstly, they should know that in order to pass capital in a phase of development of its profitability, it is not only enough to break the lives of workers and other people's bodies. The cuts, for example, do not reach pensions, wages, health, welfare, education. It is not only the reduction of all those who other parties call 'indirect costs'. It is necessary to deport, that is, to destroy part of the capital to get the machine of the capitalist economy ahead. That is what they want to do with this bill too, to regulate the way that this depreciation, the destruction of capital, will occur. In other words, what is it that they want to do? They want to get out of the way of those who are not competitive today, to pass on these businesses to other 'possible' hands, i.e. they have the funds to continue the operation of those judged to be viable. Who today is not competitive, who is not viable does not need to have special economic knowledge in order to find out. The bride will be paid again by the self-employed and the small businessmen. In this chapter, the question, that is, the controlled depreciation of part of capital in a period of capitalist economic crisis, is crucial. This has, moreover, agreed that the SYRIZA coup d'état should also be implemented - ANEL after a tough negotiation for the interests of big capital. Secondly, to consider why the loans from small and medium-sized enterprises and the self-employed have been'slapped' red. But this is mainly due to the real weakness of several individual and small businesses to meet their credit obligations, mainly because of the dramatic decline in their turnover. A basic and necessary prerequisite for a company to enter the provisions of the bill is its creditors to judge it viable. Even if they have a debt of more than EUR 20,000, even if they have a profitable use, as provided for in this bill, over the last three years, creditors have to agree that small and medium-sized enterprises are also viable. But how many micro-enterprises are today considered viable, much more in the conditions of the economic recession and the intensity of mono-sales, which brought hundreds of thousands of padlocks? And while they will have the right to join, they will not meet the criterion of sustainability. What will happen in practice? They will change the hands of businesses that will be judged viable, gather in a few hands, move away from the middle much of the small and the self-employed - who are not even competitive - by raising the market share for those who are staying. The Association of Greek Industrialists also requested this straight away. In its last weekly paper, it describes as an indication of the underdevelopment of the economy the fact that small businesses and the self-employed in Greece remain at 34%, while the average in the European Union is 16%. In practice, what we are told is that it is over 50% of today's self-employed and micro-enterprises, so that the largest part of the bottom is left to the large, which can develop'economies of scale' as they say in this newsletter. In practice, it confirms that, for the large capital, the return to growth is not carried out without any drastic restriction on the activity of thousands of self-employed persons. This objective comes to serve the bill we are discussing. After that, one would well say: yes, but those who manage to regulate - those who are judged to be viable - will be helped,'saved'. It may, like previous ones, and these arrangements may give a temporary breath to the deadly self - employed and small professionals, keep hope. They should, however, know that this is a good hope. And that's why? Let them remember what happened with the famous 100 doses in 2015. Today we are talking more than 70,000 who had joined that arrangement have been disfellowshipped. Why? Because they cannot afford to pay the instalments and at the same time pay the current obligations. In practice, the self-employed are not going to benefit from anything from the perpetuation of their previous debts because they are not only the old debts they have to face, the unpopular tax measures not only remain, but they also add new ones to your policy every day, thus creating new debts. After all, you also have the abolition of Sunday holidays, which will be another blow for small and medium-sized tradesmen, the self-employed. The only thing that changes under this arrangement is that now instead of a hundred doses is a hundred and twenty. The conclusion of these arrangements will be the same as the previous ones. Experience has shown that initially a large number of self-employed people are gradually adopting them, but they are losing them, because the reasons for the debts remain. It is certain that the deadlocks for self-employed will remain and grow. The large majority of them will be found with obligations that will be growing up all the time. Then why are they moving into the extrajudicial compromise and putting in small and medium-sized ones? Somebody's gonna wonder. Why is the government's aim, as the SYRIZA rapporteur has told us, to integrate as many enterprises as possible and even small and medium-sized enterprises? Because they have other goals. What they want to achieve next to all the others I have said before is by threatening seizures and auctions to put even deeper hands in the pocket of hundreds of thousands of self-employed people, releasing them for many more years. Their thinking is simple. They tell you: The doses are made at a hundred and twenty, so the monthly dose will be smaller and thus more bearable for a self-employed person. So the public and the banks will be able to collect part of the debts, which is, of course, better than nothing today than not to collect them. The banks, however, also want to overcome another problem they currently have, in other words, the period of the capitalist economic crisis. What? Today it does not interest them to make massive seizures. First of all, because their expenses are high in this case, but take account of you and the fall in property prices. With this bill - let me express it - 'they want to tie their donkey to introductory terms - because in any case, with any extrajudicial compromise, the banks will never lose a single euro more than they would take in the event of auctioning. In any case, that is to say, banks will benefit, which will provide information on loans in this way, from the costs of judicial action from a large number of micro-loans, but also from time-consuming procedures. In the end, if you can't be okay with your current obligations, and at the same time pay the set-up instalments, they'll also take your real estate. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the basic innovations introduced by the bill is the flexibility of the public as a creditor. That is to say, what you are doing is to shape the necessary flexibility in tax administration and insurers so that, by participating in the negotiation mechanism, they can contribute to a solution adapted to the need for each company. In practice, this means that if an undertaking is judged to be viable, particular public bodies can, among other things, ‘saving’ their demands, adapt them to the needs of that undertaking. The role of the urban state is clearly seen here. Apart from theories, when capital needs it to overcome its crisis, the state is practically present alongside the business groups. As the Minister has said in committee, the government is already preparing to bring in legislative initiative to give immunity to those members of the public and banks involved in the procedures for regulating debts, that is to say, the decisions that will be taken. I don't want to blame you here, Minister. For this is what other parties in the opposition have asked for, as were the bankers and the Association of Greek Industrialists. You're not the only ones in this matter. Ladies and gentlemen, all the other parties have tabled a number of proposals that are supposed to address the overcompensation of small and medium-sized enterprises and the self-employed. However, why does not any of you provide for the abolition of Law No 4110/2013, a law that abolished duty and imposed a tax of 26% from the first euro on self-employed persons? Why don't you propose, for example, that the trade fee and HNPI should be abolished, that debts should be frozen to the OAU and the public? It is precisely because your concern is not the small and medium-sized ones, but the bankers and large businesses, the ones that are competitive today. However, the above measures, together with the abolition of insurance information on the OSCE, the prohibition of the first place of residence, the suspension of seizures of professional housing, equipment, means of transport, bank accounts, etc. for self-employed persons who maintain their business, the ‘haircut’ of their debts and the long-term regulation of the remaining party with instalments which do not exceed 10% of the available income, are for self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises the true breath. Such proposals, however, do not even go through your mind. To conclude, Mr President - and I thank you for the tolerance - the adoption of antitrust objectives in the direction of break-up and overthrowing, the formation of conditions for the people's alliance, with working order and poor farms against monopolies, the European Union and their parties, is today the only solution for the self-employed. Only by organising and fighting in this direction will they be able to overthrow the most serious consequences that emanate from every strand of the present system for them and their families. We, with all the above, will vote against this bill. Mr President, thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u102	Before Mr. Kammenos comes, Minister, make a statement from your position that you are submitting the legislative improvements. You won't read them. Just state that you are tabling them in the Minutes in order to be photocopied and distributed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u103	I therefore make the legislative improvements to the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development. [[At this point, the Minister of the Municipality of Papadimitriou presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvements, which are as follows:]] [[Changing p.]] To enter pages 125-126
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u104	Mr Dimitrios Kammenos has the floor from the Independent Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u105	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my speech today, since there has been a great debate in the committees, I will try to give some examples and focus on the process to be understood to everyone and recorded in the Minutes, as well as some improvements which the government has shown, as the good intention has shown since the hearing of the bodies, will be able to bring this bill, if it is passed and until it comes into force with the activation of the platform. The main problem we are facing and faced with as a government when we took over power in early 2015 was the accumulation of red loans. We made EUR 86 billion red loans from the previous government. A red loan means a company that cannot serve its debts, has been forced to collect from several creditors whether they are suppliers, whether they are banks, whether they are public, account blocking, administrator account blocking, personal accounts. It is therefore almost or very difficult to operate, and as you know, in the last seven years, we have also lost EUR 62 billion from the national gross product, which is 25% -26% of gross national product. The increase in red loans has greatly contributed to this. So that's the cause. When we took over the government, managing any Minister of 86 billion red loans with banks that you imagine had a corresponding "holes" of about EUR 60 billion in their assets, because that was the increase in red loans, so from loans to deposits the gap was borrowed and they had a huge recapitalisation hole, we got money, we were recapitalisation because we found a huge problem. Over the last two years red loans have also increased at a pace of around EUR 20 billion, of EUR 85 billion and have gone to EUR 105 billion. This EUR 20 billion is not the responsibility of this government. It is the government's management responsibility, because when a company is closed or forced to collect or enforce, all its suppliers are facing enormous problems. No one can work. I will give you an example of what we have done, to understand exactly at the microeconomic level and then say a macroeconomic debt issue in relation to the adjustment of loans. It is the example of "Marinopoulos". This government managed to save "Marinopoulos". He did so in the best possible way, at the best possible point in time. It's a court decision. What did we do? We had a company that was chronicling red debt problems, which had reached about EUR 2 billion to the banks from suppliers. Imagine that the government did not intervene in September last year and that we had eleven thousand unemployed. Imagine an economy like Greece being "Marinopoulos", eleven thousand unemployed. We had a million unemployed in the crisis from red loans and not just. "Marinopoulos" has a debt of 2 billion to all, 300 billion to all of Greece. No reduction, no PSI or nothing. The suppliers of Marinopoulos, that is, the customers, all of these two and a half thousand customers would close down, would have a huge debt. Watch out for the banks, which are the bad guys in this case. Good, they're the bad guys on the case. They had 2 billion debts of "Marinopoulou" plus multiple billion debts of "Marinopoulou" employees, of eleven thousand and of two and a half thousand cooperating companies. In other words, if Marinopoulos were to dig all the loans of the eleven thousand employees of Marinopoulos - they would be redundant, pink, there would be a huge problem - and all the suppliers. It would stop a huge part of the Greek economy if we did not regulate the question of "Marinopoulou". It has not been mentioned and the government too may have done so much work to prevent it from being advertised, because we have had many other serious issues to deal with. But we had to listen to a bravo, because he's the booze. This bill, what's it doing? He's trying to regulate the whole economy. We're not trying to give anyone immunity. The word 'irregularity' is wrong. I do not like the word 'irregularity'. 'Immunity' does not exist in democracy. Whoever has responsibility, objective or not, is legally punished. Immunity no one gives anyone. What immunity? There's no immunity to anyone. There are objective responsibilities of a number of executives who must be protected, and here I close with a note, that Mr Contonis will bring them, because it is a matter of the Ministry of Justice. I, too, had a comment that it could have come now, that Mr Kontonis also signed and that the amendment should have entered as a paragraph on the objective responsibilities of state and bank officials signing debt restructuring in order not to have civil responsibilities, so that we can do what we have done in Marinopoulos and what we are doing from now on to save the economy. But he'll be here in the next ten days. We have said that there are still too many improvements. As far as fishermen and farmers are concerned, there is a gap that we should see realistically. We must be realistic and tell the truth, because it is at least recorded in the Minutes and not lie between us. We hope that the system will work in three months from now - let us say in September 2017 - plus the eighty - ninety days that the practical simple procedure for managing the application from the platform is needed if we calculate the thousands of applications that will accumulate in the four systemic banks - if the banks have the staff to manage the thousands of applications that Greek entrepreneurs will send - means that we have four cases. Let's say that all four are met at the most and on January 1st we have hundreds of thousands of applications, all staff ready to accept the applications and ninety days to check them out and go down, go for 2018. So, we are talking about 2018 being the year - fire. We don't have time. 2017 is a year of preparation for all. I'm saying this so we can all hear it. There's no time to lose, not one day. In other words, the 2018 accounting year will come to manage tens of billions of euros to four banks, together with the public's responsibilities and participation, with regard to the tax obligations of operators and their insurance obligations. Watch out now. That's the end of the evaluation. I want you to understand how important this bill is and I honestly don't understand anyone for his 'no'. I've said that three times in the two years I'm a MP. This is the third time that I do not understand the 'no' of some people, but that is my personal view, without insulting anyone. When the assessment is finished, the interest rates will fall because our bonds will be worth better - you hear them a little while - Mr. Draghy will get them at the quantitative relaxation, so they will be worthwhile, that is, they won't break his hands, so 6.3% will fall and the Greek bond's interest rate will go to 4% or 4.5%. This, at the same time, means that half the cost of borrowing and the cost of money in the banks will fall. What does that mean to this bill? For anyone who makes a sustainability report and testifies to it today - and we will be looking at it and it is our responsibility as government - when interest rates fall in between time and 2018, the plan that he will have tabled will also be restructured. In other words, it will be even more viable for him to come out of his microeconomic crisis. It is important, in other words, to understand that we are going at the same time. The cost of money to every natural person, be it me, my family, any citizen, or a business, will fall almost halfway down to 40%, and this is due to take place this year and in the first half of 2018. Therefore, this direct benefit will greatly help to manage and serve red loans for the next few years, those - and when they - regulate these up to a hundred and twenty instalments. The present value of the debt will be recorded. The company's net position will be recorded. The net position of a company, when we talk about the two main definitions, is what the company has today, what money its shareholders have put into the assets, plus the profits they have not been distributed and put into the company as assets, minus all liabilities. This is, plus-outside, the company's net position. That's how we see it in the economy. When we talk about 'functional profits', they should not be afraid. I hear definitions too. Operating profits are all profits, revenues, minus sales costs. The cost of selling comes from gross profits. If the gross profits are taxed, amortization, interest, operating profits remain. In other words, if someone gets his sales bills, when he sells a glass of water, how much it costs him to sell it, minus all the cost of managing the money to sell it, if he doesn't make a euro, it means he has "black". There is no way there is a company that does not have a euro operating profit! They're hiding profits smartly, accounting? I don't blame it. I'll be caught by the montazier and say something about me again. Thus, these years have become the grievance. Now, however, it is an opportunity for'resolution', as we say in my village, namely to have a cleansing. As Mrs Jakris said, because in fifteen - twenty days' time, the accounting year, to close the balance sheet, these people in the six months must correct an old balance sheet, make operational profits -40 euros is the fine, see you here - and close it, if they accept - and here is the important one - to give us a lifting of their personal data to banks. A businessman cannot continue to hide black money himself or his family and say: "I don't. "Keep me." This has been the case for seven years. We won't. It will give complete waiver of the confidentiality of bank accounts to a first, second person. We will see the VDUs of his relatives if they are in the same or parent companies or companies that provide services or corporate loans - now not to get the case involved - to the gentleman who submits the application. There too, since we see that there is objectively no possibility of serving this debt and that jobs must be saved - that is, we exclude the fraudulent bankruptcy or the fraudulent closure of the business - then we will objectively give this man the clean solution. So it must make a fair, democratic government and not a government that goes to cover up: turn a page. For seven years we were turning the page, kicking the dirt under the carpet, reaching 85-90 billion red loans, and no one made any law. Mr. Dendias - congratulations! Seventy applications, six solutions. Seventy applications, six solutions! We're talking about four hundred thousand businesses coming in here. So we'll do what we have to do. We also want the support of all the actors. We've heard the institutions too. They were important. It'll take several improvements. There was a great question that we accepted at a café we're going back to. We were told: "What, guys, will PPC join?" Yeah, PPC could have come in too. This is a simple question from the world, that is to say, "Oh, PPC you don't put it in because they do, because they show, etc.''.'. No, there's going to be the C.E.O.S. Why don't the ECJ come in? Everyone who needs to get in and, on the basis of criteria, can get in. It's important that they all have a chance. Anyone who makes an application to the system will not have a second chance of correcting any mistakes. He needs special attention. Let me point out here, in my short time, and draw the attention of all the businessmen in our country. Be careful: Who are they going for advice, who are their legal advisers, who are their tax advisors, who are their notaries, who are the experts who advise them to prepare their business's viability application. I say this because they will have a chance. This must be done properly. They must pay great attention to whom the keys to their business survival are. It's not supposed to be a mistake. This responsibility is themselves, the state does not have it. So the state cannot be close to four hundred thousand and make four hundred thousand business shots. The market should also regulate itself. I'm saying it for everyone's knowledge. The mistakes aren't forgiven. It's the last chance. We have also succeeded in companies that have ceased their activities to be able to join the mechanism if they have previously submitted a declaration of resumption of work. Important, too, is that the expert will enter the process of verifying creditors, i.e. credit claims. There will be many who say 'they owe me 10,000 or 10 million'. Some others will find themselves and tell an entrepreneur: you owe me "h" sums. Verification of the amounts, if they are correct, correctly recorded, both as charges and claims within the liabilities and assets of companies and creditors, will be verified so that there are no issues of extortion. And these will be very careful not to happen. From there on - Mrs Jackson explained, I think we don't have to say the whole thing - it's specific how it should be done. There will also be the haircut of extra charges. We'll see about that. It is important that we first managed to bring the public to participation. It's gonna be a third, fourth. First, the businessman will find them with his plan with the bank and then, if they agree, they will come with 50% or 60%, depending on the stage in the process, and the rest will participate. Anyone who does not have a requirement at this time is being closed down very quickly. I say this because we have also discussed the legal procedure for ratification. When no objections were raised in the extrajudicial proceedings and there is no deletion of a debt of a non-contracting creditor, the company could be made by a single court of first instance rather than by a multiplicity. I'm saying that for lawyers. It has to be recorded in the Minutes. I'm not a lawyer. However, this facilitates the process and ends. Let me say that I read and studied Mr Carras' amendment. As an expert, if you wish, on economic issues, I would say that it is an amendment of common sense. Common sense has been lost in Greece. The memorials have oppressed the universe. For example, in a family when the woman puts a guarantee on the man who has a kiosk, and pounds the kiosk and then the woman doesn't have an account unlocked to go shopping for the house, we have to be there. That is to say, the guarantor and the guarantor cannot be and be called a core counterparty if he has not taken part in a management, co-management or whatever the law provides. A judge is not currently indicted as a contributor. If, of course, a state tries to mitigate and broaden the basis of debtors, whether in an enterprise or in the state itself, it will find infinite. Is it right to do it? Do we have to do this? I think not. It is something we have discussed and it is not because my friend George said so - and many years of it! - But I agree. And at some point in the next quarter, we will have to look at it and fix it, because it will be a shame to deprive people of the possibility of unblocking accounts and family peace. bankruptcy was bankruptcy of the country and not of the family and business because there was a fraudulent purpose. So we must protect the family, which is the building of Greece. Because family ties must not be broken. Imagine parents, children and cousins never talking again, because a state did not protect them from a guarantee of good faith given by one - not a good managerial execution of the businessman - its guarantee to go ahead by his cousin, nephew or child. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We should be very careful here. And I am sure we will be showing - and Mr Papadimitriou and the relevant ministers - the necessary sensitivity. As Independent Greeks we are voting in favour of the bill and I ask Mr. Nearly as soon as possible with his amendment on the executive's objective responsibilities, so that this law will also have effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u106	Mr Marios Georgiadis' spokesman, as he had informed us this morning, is in a meeting. So I am not deleting him so that, when he returns, he can speak at any stage of the procedure. And we're finishing the speakers with Mr. Georgios Amyras from the river. Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President, although I denounce you for discriminating against me, since you have not wished for me and for the rest of the Georges you have tried to give your wishes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u108	I say, publicly speaking, that you had the pleasure of wishing you in private!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u109	I take it back then, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming here today in Parliament to vote on the draft law on the out-of-court settlement of company debts. In fact, we are talking about private debt, a monolith, which is greater than that of Gibraltar or Anaphis, who stands in the core, in the heart of the Greek economy and especially in the private sector. That is why we consider it necessary and really welcome - although you have been late - the move to put the issues of out-of-court settlement on the table so that the courts too can be rid of the huge volume of work and companies with liquidity problems to be strengthened and to a large extent protected and, of course, treated with the bank's red loans. This regulation is necessary, which I think we all recognize. But I would say that the way you bring the legislation to deal with it is not enough. We wanted more bold things. We wanted more dynamic solutions and practically more easily applied. We need to see the environment in which Greek businesses first strive to survive, but also to develop in a second stage. We need to see the environment in which jobs are lost rather than jobs being created. So let us see what the environment is that is oppressing businesses and why this regulation does not give solutions, as we believe it should, in a more dynamic way. We therefore see above all unemployment, namely the OAED data for the period from June 2016 to January 2017. The absolute number of unemployed rose from ninety - fifty thousand to one million ninety thousand. Can we talk about business bouquets? In 2016 we had a record of "lunket". 2016 will definitely be an unforgettable year for the business world, since the "rules" and "lukelets" had their honor! We all remember the "Electronic Athens" that closed, the bookshops "Papasios" and "Eleftherodakis", "Athens Ledra Hotel", the company "ContiTec" which had forty-four years to move to Volos, "Jet Oil", the closure of the "PepsiCo - HBI" plant in Oinofita, the closure of "Softex", the closure of the "FAG" plant in Amyntheos and the list is not over. A total of twenty-four thousand thirty-three companies were deleted from the 2016 registers, when in 2015, one year ago, eighteen thousand two hundred forty-five write-offs had taken place. The most worrying thing, however, is that the number of new businesses established after 2016 was already reduced by 10.41% compared to 2015, i.e. the capitals controls. In other words, it's a horrendous climate. Can we talk about the bad checks? According to Tiresia's data, the value of the uncovered cheques of July 2016, note, on one month of 2016, approached this year's entire 2015. In other words, the value of uncovered cheques in one month reached the EUR 207 million, which was about this year's and uncovered cheques, one year ago, for the entire 12-month period. The statements by the Greeks are also bleeding. There, we have a big problem. The banking sector has been restructured, recapitalised three times in substance and the Greek depositor does not yet trust the Greek systemic banks. Only in January, deposits from the Greek banks left, according to data from the Bank of Greece, amounted to 1,567,000 euros. Today we are talking about banks have EUR 119 million,000,000 deposits, the lowest level of deposits since November 2011. So the government is coming with this draft law to give - I suppose I am, unfortunately - a hand of assistance to the entrepreneurs who are in danger of shutting down their businesses, of course leaving thousands of unemployed people unemployed. We have also confirmed that from the statements made by the representatives. Here, first of all, we cannot speak exactly or in about, extrajudicial regulation and extrajudicial mechanism when everything ends up in the multi-judicial courtrooms. I'm afraid we'll suffer and deal with the situation of the bottle. A lot of people frustrate the entrance or exit, depending on where you see it, in the courts, and the job won't be done. So you need here to differentiate the way you see this extrajudicial arrangement. The electronic platform for submission of applications for settlement is not yet ready. Again with the paperwork will be businessmen in the hands, twenty-one papers will pick them up. My information and contact with the computer space leads me to conclude that even after three months, the platform, as you say here, will not be ready. So, that's where you need to tell us what the alternative is. From the information we have retained from the committee meetings and from today's debate, we need to keep a few comments, for example, from the Hellenic Banks Union, which informed that there are currently applications for membership of the Court of Justice for Katselis, which exceed 155,000 applications. They are 155,000 applications with dates of trial up to 2032. This is a loophole, a hole which is exploited by strategic malpractices, of course, at the expense of both the banking system and the remaining entrepreneurs and debtors, who are struggling and trying to keep their business alive, making arrangements, paying as they can with blood the instalments of the arrangements to which they have been subjected. I will also retain a few comments from the Hellenic Confederation of Trade and Entrepreneurship, as well as from GSEVE, professionals, crafters and traders in Greece, who consider the existence of a positive net result of the companies for at least one year, of the last three to be subject to the arrangement. I also stressed that, after a seven-year crisis, after a seven-year period of bloodshed for the Greek economy and private businessmen and businesses, this condition can fly too many people, too many businesses, out of regulation. We say that some quality parameters need to be taken into account, for example: the maintenance of jobs in an enterprise which seeks to be subject to regulation. In Article 15, paragraph 21, for the purpose of whether or not the professions are subject to regulation. We have even discussed it with some of your partners, Mr Minister. I would like to stress here that we must now and not then, waiting for regulation, see what criteria will be, so that they can be regulated as if the free traders were insolvent. But the proposal from the public and social security institutions should have been drawn up by now. We need to know the criteria, the footprints. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment tabled by the Independent Member, Mr George Karras, is very positive. We invite you, Minister, to rethink it and to accept it. It is for conciliators and guarantors to distinguish and limit their liability. It is a very important amendment, which we invite you to take note of and accept. I think that all parties will vote for it because it is in the right direction and it is undone - to say so - the judicial part of the process. So, all that we are discussing today, we are talking about it in a climate of entrepreneurship that is shaky. It is bleak because the memorandum is awaiting us from the future, the memorandum that comes, the memorandum that will lead to the low wages of EUR 500 a month to be hit taxly, since the tax-free you will download it at EUR 5,600 from what we read and apparently hear. Pensioners will see their personal differences evaporated from 1 January 2019, so we will have a pension towel. And I remind you that families have reduced the consumption of milk and bread, based on the figures that have been made public by ELSTAT and other sources. So I'm staying on something the Prime Minister said in his TV interview with the IMF1. He said that for the first time we had a negotiation that didn't end with a Barcelona score - Pan-liberal, but with a positive score. First of all, let's remind Mr. Tsipras that Elefsina's team is playing in the Second Nationality. And if he wanted to, then he couldn't cross-cross Barcelona. But I do. Maybe the fight was also friendly. However, until first in the euro area there were other pan-Europeans. In the category II Memorandum Championship, the second national of the eurozone, we were not the only Pan-Eleucian team. It was Ireland too, it was Portugal, it was Cyprus. But these three Pan-Flemish groups, so to speak, were charged and now they're playing at Champions League. They left the memos. We're not only trapped in the Second National, but - beating wood - we're afraid we might even be charged. And this is because coach, Mr. Tsipras, while he came in, promising to tear the memorials and take the Champions League, has finally brought us a memorial, he has prepared a second liquor, which has come from 2019 and the fate of the Pan-Elefian – Greece has not been erased very blossoming. I was also impressed by something else Mr Tsipras said: that he saw the greatest excursion of trips over the last eight years in Easter. May I remind you that two years ago the Prime Minister and the SYRIZA and the ministers were talking about a humanitarian crisis? Now people seem to have money to spend? Let me remind you that two years ago the "I do not pay" movement was an indicator of socially-substantiated resistance, and now the tolls became an indicator of growth? Let me remind you that until two years ago - and I would say earlier - the surplus was a surplus of blood, and now it has been proven to be a national success? Now 4,2% surplus in recession is a success? May I remind you that two years ago the piraeus ports and Thessaloniki were a red cloth, for SYRIZA in particular, and that some would account for giving ports to individuals? Now are investment initiatives? This reasoning cannot be followed by the average family, which pays its food more precisely because of the increase in taxation. I'll tell you what's interesting about I searched the official traffic data. From Great Thursday to Easter Sunday they moved towards the exits of the national roads three hundred ninety thousand forty-five vehicles, which is thirty-two thousand sixty-one vehicles less than in 2016. I mean, we have a 8% reduction of the exit. I mean, you have to protect the Prime Minister and give him the exact information. Do not lead to the wrong conclusions. But that is perhaps the least one would say. In 2017, the budget predicted and predicted growth of 2.7%, but now the estimates of many operators are unfortunately downloading the bar to 1%-1.5% and, of course, the agreement will be closed immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already lost two years since the 2015-2016 recession. All the other European countries, all the other European groups, of the type of Pan-Hellenics, have succeeded and played Champions League. So I'm telling you, move faster. As far as the draft law is concerned, bring more bold arrangements like those we have proposed. We see a number of positive issues of the draft law. I also expect the Minister to hear how he will be placed at the end in relation to what we have said. We will give you our vote after we hear the changes. Ladies and gentlemen, the Pan-Eleucian is worth a better coach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u110	Well, we're done with the special speakers. The procedure will be as follows. The Minister will speak. It will be followed by Mr Haritsis who will support the amendment for a few minutes, with a general number of 1026 and a special number of 14. Refers to the seconded persons in the ‘TAC SA’. I'm telling you it's roughly. Maybe he's got more. Then there is a parliamentary representative, five speakers. Mr. Loverdos has already said to speak first because he has a job. Immediately after the ministers, Mr. Xydakis wants to make a statement on behalf of SYRIZA for two minutes. She's irrelevant to the bill. Immediately after the Minister, we will give him the floor to make the statement. Here you go, Mr. Papadimitriou. I hope at least you will also say a good word about the consistent borrowers. Batteries to fire out of all of us. For the helpless, we can do everything we can, even through our disagreements. But there are consistent ones and they have not heard a good conversation at least. They're the ones keeping the banks open. And they're not rich. I am one of the consensuals who pay, as are many other people in this Chamber. I give you 20 minutes to possibly answer some of the places beyond the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, the overcompensation of businesses is undoubtedly one of the most acute economic problems in recent years. Many businesses of all sizes, although viable, are on the verge of bankruptcy. So far, the only solution that was given to rescue has been bilateral regulation with each of their creditors. The out-of-court settlement mechanism of companies shall seek to coordinate all the creditors of the undertaking, including the public and the social security institution. This mechanism enables the company to negotiate with only one process with all its creditors. The process takes place electronically, which reduces the administrative costs of the process, not only for the company but also for creditors, thereby removing a possible incentive for creditors from the examination of requests for regulation of small enterprises. Furthermore, the draft law provides for the participation of both public and social security institutions as creditors under the same conditions as private creditors. This makes it possible to regulate the debts to public and social security institutions, not stiff, as the legislation has so far provided for, but adapted to the viability of each company. We have paid particular attention to the criteria that a company must meet in order to be able to join the mechanism. The criteria laid down in the draft law are such that each viable undertaking can join the mechanism regardless of size. However, all companies that either do not have a reasonable chance of a positive viability assessment or do not need the mechanism are excluded in advance. In view of the exclusion of non-viable undertakings, it is foreseen that an undertaking may only be included in the mechanism if it has covered its current costs for at least one of the last three years, showing positive results before tax, interest and depreciation. On the other hand, it is foreseen that, in order for an undertaking to be able to join the mechanism, it should have a late payment and, in addition, its total debt to be set up to exceed EUR 20,000, as an undertaking which does not fulfil the above conditions does not need the mechanism. For this reason, the proposal put forward for the integration of undertakings which do not meet the criteria for a single use of operational profitability at three cannot be adopted, nor can the proposal to relax this criterion. If an undertaking does not cover its current costs for three years, it will not be considered viable. Furthermore, the proposal for full integration into the free trade mechanism or farmers cannot be adopted. Such persons may be subject to the law on overdue households, and the case of their public or social security debts is dealt with in paragraph 21 of Article 15. It was also argued that closed undertakings should not be excluded from the mechanism. They are, in fact, not excluded as an undertaking which has ceased its business can submit a start-up statement and thus move into the category of open business. In order to prevent the risk of interpretative doubts as to the ability of the closed undertaking to submit a start-up statement and to join the mechanism, we are making a relevant legislative improvement, where this possibility is clearly foreseen. The possibility of joining the public institutions was also proposed. Our proposal is totally in agreement. In fact, a more careful reading of the bill leads to the conclusion that public institutions are part of the mechanism. In accordance with Article 2(1) of the Mechanism, any legal person acquiring income from business in accordance with Articles 21 and 47 of the Code on Income Tax shall be incorporated into the mechanism. In accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 47 of the Code on Income Tax, all revenue obtained by the legal persons referred to in Article 45, including non-profit-making legal entities governed by public or private law, shall be considered as income from business. Therefore, public-private institutions can join the mechanism without having to change the draft law. The extrajudicial mechanism has been formulated in such a way that, on the one hand, proposals can be submitted by all the parties concerned which are substantiated with serious likelihood of acceptance by the other parties and, on the other hand, the proceedings can be concluded within as short a period of time as possible. In particular, by submitting its application, the debtor shall announce to the creditors, who are to participate, all of their assets and all of those data, which will enable the assessment of its viability. At the same time, it renounces bank and tax confidentiality. The provision of this information, on the one hand, reduces the hesitation of creditors to consent to a proposal for a regulation which could be the result of asymmetry of information, on the other hand, prevents the abuse of the mechanism by strategic misappropriators. The bill was criticised for harming applicants by involving a large number of supporting documents. Article 16 provides for the possibility of interconnecting electronic and digital files through the electronic platform for the cross-checking and verification of the debtor's data. This will significantly reduce the bureaucracy of the process. However, until this operation is integrated into the platform, it is necessary to submit these supporting documents, as the more complete picture of the business is of the creditors, the more likely they are either to accept the proposal to regulate the debtor or to submit a counter-proposal that will be accepted. The alternative proposed, in order to automatically seek some supporting documents from the coordinator, is that it cannot be adopted, since it is preferable that the necessary time for the collection of supporting documents should be devoted before the procedure is opened rather than during the course of the procedure. The purpose of providing full picture to creditors, in order to maximise the chances of reaching an agreement, is also served by the obligation to co-operate the application by all contributors, with the exception of natural guaranteeers in the public sector, who are regarded by law as co-operators. A strong incentive is provided to convictors to co-operate the application, since yes, the guarantors who do not co-operate with the application benefit from the agreement that might be reached, but on the non-coupling of the request the secured creditor is entitled to refuse to participate in the procedure while maintaining his claims in full. It is understood that the guarantor may be self-employed in respect of all its debts or in the extrajudicial mechanism if he or she falls within his or her personal scope or under the law on highly indebted households, although a natural person without a commercial status. After submission of the application, a coordinator shall be appointed by the Special Secretariat for the Conservation of Private Debts. The limited number of coordinators has been criticised. However, this figure is necessary in order for the Special Secretariat of Private Debt Management to be able to exercise effective supervision of coordinators. In any event, the number of coordinators is not entirely restrictive as Article 6(7) provides for the supplementation of the register of coordinators if such a need arises. Accredited ombudsmen shall be entered as a priority in the register of coordinators without discrimination according to the specificity. Therefore, it is not just ombudsmen who are lawyers. After checking the completeness of the file, the coordinator shall invite creditors to declare whether they intend to participate in the procedure. From this point of view and as long as the negotiation takes place, any enforcement of the debtor shall be suspended. Legislative improvement we are introducing a proposal from both the members of the Representation and the Union of Greek Banks provides that the procedure of the Code of Conduct of Banks is suspended from this point rather than from the submission of the application. If they participate in the process of creditors who have the majority of the requirements, the appointment of an expert shall be compulsory for large enterprises and optional for small enterprises. The expert shall assess the viability of the debtor and whether it is entrusted with a restructuring plan. According to legislative improvements we are presenting, the expert may also be entrusted with the verification of disputed requirements. This, together with the possibility for any participating creditor to request additional documents and data from the debtor, we consider that it ensures that creditors are adequately guaranteed by the risk of participation of virtual creditors in the process. A deadline shall then be set for creditors to submit counter-regulation proposals. It is appropriate to submit only documented counter-proposals, which will have a reasonable chance of being accepted. For this reason, Article 8(5) provides for a minimum content of the counter-proposal. On the other hand, since the counter-proposals have this minimum content, they are welcome by any creditor. The proposal that has been supported, in which the right to submit counter-proposals should only be limited to the main creditor, cannot be adopted, as more substantiated proposals are made, so that the chances of reaching the agreement are increased. On the counter-proposals, the debtor chooses some, which are put to the vote. Where a proposal is agreed between the debtor and a majority of three fifths of the participating creditors, a restructuring contract shall be signed, which shall apply immediately from the time of its signature. This Convention also commits the minority and non-participating creditors, provided that it is ratified by a judicial decision. A number of proposals were supported on ratification of the agreement. The proposal that has been supported for ratification of the agreement by a simple statement to the Court's secretariat, in the context of the standard of deposit of the legal mediation of Law 3898/2010, with the possibility of any disputing the dispute, cannot be adopted. The proposal to ratify the agreement, however, raises fewer objections by means of a provision of a single judge with the right of any person affected to object to the provision. We believe that this proposal is supported. However, it must be examined with particular care to apply the provision procedure only where it is reasonable to expect that the possibility of opposition is small. That is why we are not amending Article 12 of the bill at present. We are, however, working with the Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights in order to carefully shape the conditions and procedure for ratifying the agreement by means of a provision. Finally, this draft law does not contain a provision protecting the representatives of creditors from unfair prosecutions, who will consent to a settlement of debts. A relevant provision is prepared by the relevant Ministry of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights and is to be introduced into an imminent legislative initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law does not guarantee any company's debts, as a regulation cannot be imposed against the will of the majority of creditors. The obstacles, however, which have so far made it difficult to achieve a comprehensive regulation of the debts owed to highly indebted, non-viable, companies and create those positive conditions, which will give relief to businesses, will make them out of the range of bankruptcy and allow them to continue their business. In this way, we believe that this draft law will be a lever for the development of our national economy. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of the draft of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u112	We too, Minister. We also saved time. Ladies and gentlemen, the Member, Mr Christos Stagiras, is seeking permission from a short-day absence abroad from 27 April to 28 April 2017. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u113	The House therefore approved the requested permission. I give the floor for five minutes to Mr. Haritsi. Minister, I don't think you need more time. Is there a lot of you for five minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u114	Extremely enough, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u115	It will present the amendment with a general number of 1026 and a special number of 14. Sincerely, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. As you said earlier, the amendment concerns arrangements for the SAA and for the system of ESRB special services as a whole. In particular, Article 1 amends the TBR Statute so that the secondment of staff to the central service of the TBR is carried out by means of the same uniform system, which also applies to special services, that is to say, a uniform method and not different systems from the central service to the special services, as was the case so far. As I am aware, there is a misinterpretation of this provision, within a few minutes we will table a legislative improvement, so that the wording of this article can be quite clear. For Article 2, there are three paragraphs. The first relates to the ability of the Ministry of Labour to appoint an intermediate body in the social economy, employment and training sectors and to state aid actions, in particular as regards the question of the social economy, to be able to implement the specific social economy structure of the Ministry of Labour. The second paragraph gives authorisation to the Minister of Economy for the adoption of a Ministerial Decision setting out the procedure for the secondment or movement of personnel from the State to the Special Services of the ESRB. The whole system of secondments is therefore unified by this ministerial decision. The third provision of this article provides, on the one hand, that the administrative act of placement of officials in positions of responsibility in the "TDI S.A." will be carried out by decision of the management of the organization and not by decision of the Minister, as was the case until now. I would clarify that this concerns only the administrative act and not the procedure for the placement, selection and the criteria for the selection of officials in positions of responsibility. Under the second provision of this paragraph, supervisors who will not be selected during the procedure to be followed for the selection of heads of special services will be able, at the request of them, to remain in those departments in which they perform their duties as mere managers of such services. Finally, with the third article in this amendment, we consider that an injustice which has so far existed with regard to the pay system for officials in special services is restored. I would remind you that, following the implementation of the single wage in the ESRB, inequality conditions have been created with officials of different speeds. In 2013 with L.4205, the employees of L.A. were treated as employees of the General Secretariat of Public Investment and the Ministry of Economy as employees of the Ministry of Economy. However, this was not the case for posted officials from public and public sector bodies. It is precisely this injustice that we are restoring today with this regulation. It concerns employees who work in the same services, of course with the same qualifications as the same staff. We are talking about equal pay on the basis of these qualifications. Expenditure on this equation shall not give rise to a financial burden as it is covered by the co-financed part of the Public Investment Programme. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u117	Mr President, may I ask the Minister a question on this matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u118	You have the floor for a minute, Mr Karathanasopoulos, for a detailed question.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. It is expressing, Minister, the anxiety - indeed the workers of the CFO are mobilised - that, with the changes you are making, you are changing the statute, which is essentially about the recruitment scheme in the CFO, by removing what it says that the relationships with which they are recruited are relationships with an indefinite period of time. So by circumventing this thing, the road opens for contractors and other kinds of employment relationships. Is this danger in place and, if so, how will you deal with it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u120	Minister, you have the floor for two minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u121	I will just be a minute, Mr President. Mr Karathanasopoulos, as I said at the beginning of my position, because we are aware that this misinterpretation has been created - you are referring to Article 1 of the amendment - among the employees of the CTP, we are bringing about a legislative improvement so that the wording is clear. There is no change in the recruitment status of staff members of the TBR. Undetermined contracts remain as they are and the recruitment process remains as it is. This refers to a paragraph, which is just under the arrangement that we go to nr.4314/2014. I want to be clear. There is no case for changing the recruitment status. That is why we will bring the legislative improvement, so that it is quite clear and in terms of wording, so that these misinterpretations do not exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u122	So waiting for the legislative improvement, and I'll see you again at the end. Good. Mr. Xydakis has the floor for two minutes to read or testify on behalf of his party. This is not a resolution or an adoption. I'm clarifying it. Here, Mr. Xydakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr President. This is a reference to this House by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group on the occasion of the 76th anniversary of Athens' occupation by Nazi troops. I have the honour, therefore, to read this report to you as a gesture of memory before history, before the people who gave their lives and before the future generations, in order to keep these all solid before us as beacons: "The SYRIZA Parliamentary Group recognises that the victims of international war crimes, crimes against humanity and acts of genocide are entitled to full and unconditional access to effective legal treatment, maintaining the right to truth and historical memory. The victims of World War II atrocities have never had the legal means necessary to defend them and to seek effective legal, moral and historical restoration, which is due to the silence of the martyr history of the Greek people, which violates the fundamental right of individuals to historical memory and access to effective legal treatment. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Group notes that according to International Law and the Greek Constitution war crimes, crimes against humanity and acts of genocide are not subject to the limitation provisions of the Criminal Code. Points out that, on the basis of the applicable supreme principles of international law, too, civil claims arising from the above international crimes remain, whether concerning claims of material compensation or financial satisfaction, moral harm or mental suffering. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Group unequivocally condemns the ambiguity of the government of the junta of the crimes against humanity during its meeting of 15 November 1967 in the United Nations 3rd Committee, which in no way reflects the firm position of all democratically elected Greek governments, but also the unanimous position of the Intergroup Parliamentary Committee on the Claim of German Debts to Greece. We believe that the international criminal offences committed in our country during the triple occupation are indiscriminate. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Group confirms that the official position of the Greek Parliament is that the institution of the limitation does not apply to both criminal and civil cases arising from the action of the Axis forces in Greece during the threefold occupation of 1941-1945. We adopt the report of the Intergroup of Parliamentary Committee on the Recruitment of German Debts - IZ' Parliamentary Period, Session I, 27 July 2016 - and in particular the proposals referred to therein, which raises the question of the irrevocability of critical crimes and claims. Athens, 27 April 2017.’ Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u124	The Minister, who has not yet completed his time, wants to present - and I think it is useful for those colleagues who will follow, both the parliamentary representatives and the speakers - the ministerial amendment signed by Mr Skourletis and myself by a general number of 1025 and a specialist.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u125	Mr President, can I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u126	I'll give you the floor later.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u127	I want to talk about what I...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u128	Yeah, I get it. I'll give you the floor not for half a minute, for more.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u129	I don't want any more, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u130	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u131	This amendment gives a time limit until 2021 for publications in the daily and provincial press, as regards the notices of competitions provided for in the Code of Procurement of the municipalities and communities. This extension had been granted since the beginning of the adoption of the basic procurement law, Law 4412/2016, throughout the press and for all categories of public tenders, other than those provided for in Article 11 of the d.d. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Communities. With this amendment we regulate in a uniform way, on the basis of the principle of equality and transparency, all the status of publications in public procurement, including those of municipalities and communities. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u132	Here, Mr. Dendia, you have the floor for two minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, I would just like to offer the debate - it is not a matter of discussion, but, in any case, it is a point of order and we have no objection to that - that is: the major problem facing the Greek legal order and any legal order in the matter of German compensation, it is not the question of limitation, but the question of subsidiarity. I would therefore suggest that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, having taken the initiative to draw up this interesting text, come to the point of immunity and come back, presenting its thoughts on how the Greek legal order could deal with this issue. Also, if you want to see it from a scientific point of view, there is an analysis of 2016's "NOMIKO" extremely interesting. However, I say again that it takes huge legal effort and huge legal thought to see how we can together - because there were genuinely shameful crimes, whose victims have never been compensated - to look at these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u134	We're continuing with Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, I would like to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u136	Let's not open a word. Get in touch with each other and the other wings, if they want...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u137	I should like to reply for political reasons because this is a serious proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u138	Okay. To speak first, Mr. Loverdos...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u139	I can wait, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u140	Here, Mr Xydakis, you have the floor for a minute. By way of derogation, however, I did all this because we are in Athens and it also marked the occupation of the whole of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u141	I would like to thank Mr Tindemans for his intervention. This reference does not claim the laurels of an integrated legal reality. It is, first of all, a historical reminder. It's a lasting memory deposit.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u142	That's what you did.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u143	Two minutes, Mr. President. I do not doubt that he can have legal difficulties and need a different legal depth. However, the moving power and the primary power are the political will and the sense of historical responsibility. I think that no one in this Chamber is missing from any democratic force. With this force, with this blunt force, I think we need to move backwards towards the victims of the unspeakable crimes - the unspeakable ones, as Mr Denkias acknowledges - and ahead of the younger generations, which need to be remembered and made up of what has happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, these days in Turkey - yesterday, the day before yesterday - the phenomenon of thousands of arrests is observed, as well as the position outside the state mechanism of thousands of officials, regardless of which area of the state mechanism they are working on, for reasons relating to the coup and their relationship with it. It is clear - especially for anyone who follows developments after the coup in Turkey and within it - the division and the fraternity of President Erdogan. At the same time - I have referred to the House - it is articulated for many reasons - not primarily for an export of the crisis, but primarily for reasons of overthrowing the data of the Czech state in Turkey - and in a strong way for a reform in relation to international conditions, a reform that is threateningly speaking for all Turkish neighbours, primarily in the South and the West, because Turkey is the evil neighbour for all the countries that are neighbours with it. In recent weeks, Turkey's attempt to export the crisis has been evident, with statements from officials. The latter concerned Agathonisi, the Greek evidently Agathonisi in the circumstances, according to the laws, according to the International Law, of which there is no doubt. But this attitude, beyond the political reasons I mentioned, ladies and gentlemen, is also associated with the irresponsible cowardice of the officials of that country, an irresponsible cowardice that we must also have in mind, explaining exactly what is happening in this country and what our own tasks are. Turkey is slipping outside the European Union, except for the commitments it had made many years ago for its European course. It is becoming more and more out of this context. But this must also be taken into account by the European Union itself and, of course, by our country, which is of direct interest to these developments. As far as the draft law is concerned, I told the President this morning - and he agreed with me, and it is good that the next President-in-Office, and I would mention it to this House - for the amendments - there are important parliamentary amendments - to the Democratic Incorporation, to the irresponsible business account, but also to those made by Mr Carras, on a very critical subject, on a critical subject! Now the Minister who's here has to discuss it with his partners. Not to tell us at night or whenever we're done, "it's a very serious matter, he wants a study." He's got time now. What does Mr. Carras say with his amendment? It says it is unacceptable for the guarantor to be equated with the primary debtor. This is legally, economically necessary. Congratulations, Mr. Comrade! But don't tell us tonight you don't have time to see it. You have the time. However, we will talk about this - as the President, Mr Kaklamanis, told me this morning - in a debate in a second cycle, in order to give value to those interventions that have value and have been tabled in the form of an amendment. [[At this point, the First Vice-President of Parliament, Mr Anastassios Kourakis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in reading the draft law, I thought how timely the roadmap that we as PASOK and Democratic Incorporation have drawn up and how serious the conference we have planned as the Democratic Compact at the end of June is. My reaction to thinking about what a government is presenting, and what you must do, is not by chance, for reasons of parliamentary rhetoric, I have chosen to include it in my speech. We as a Democratic Integration must clarify to the Greek citizens, in the nine million of the electorate, how we will go when the people, in their intervention, differentiate the correlations and popular sovereignty change the power of the parties and entrust others with the rule of the country. As I keep saying in public dialogue, but also in our internal dialogue, from this roadmap, which is not a roadmap of values, but a roadmap of actions to get the country out of the crisis, we must be very specific about how taxes will be reduced, how contributions will be reduced, how development will come. This strategic plan, as some people say - I am more concerned with a simpler phrase - is the whole thing that our country needs, how do we have it in mind, how do we propose it to the citizens, to strengthen us? We've got our backstage. There is no serious reform that has taken place at the time of the crisis, which has not been made by the government of George Papandreou. There is no undeniable course - with both SYRIZA's numbers - out of the recession of the Samara government - Venizelos. These are our contingencies. We have fully participated in the first case and partly in the second. These are our deposits, but they're not enough. It is necessary to tell the citizen how it will be right now if the connections were changed tomorrow morning. This is the obligation towards which we will meet on 30 June, to have as collective a wording of proposals and not as individuals, because as a place we are full of persons who have experience and competences and powers. Why am I saying all this, ladies and gentlemen? Did I get time or space to make a party report? Oh, no. I'm telling you, reading the draft law on the extrajudicial compromise on business red loans. Am I saying that to remind you of SYRIZA's assholes? I listened yesterday to the Mayor of Thessaloniki, Mr. Yiannis Boutaris, telling which politicians he appreciates. He said that Mr. Tsipras appreciates him for his fucking boobs. Is it time for me to remind you of that? It's always time and I'll always do it. But today, I am not saying that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u146	Because Boutaris said so, is it a reality?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u147	I heard him. I heard him. They didn't tell me. I heard him. Why am I saying that? We're used to shitholes. Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee of Inquiry has become the big fucker. I refer to it now, because today it has an unfortunate and unfortunate article that concerns me. What does the paper "HAY" say? That I'm proposing to the pre-examination committee something that doesn't help the equipment research in the Papantoniou period. On the contrary, I say that this must be the sole responsibility of the prosecutor's justice. You - are not here with your Prime Minister and your proposals for the Revision of the Constitution, are you saying that the criminal responsibility of the ministers should go to regular criminal justice? Now that he has passed to justice - what now, in 2011 with Venizelos - Kastanides - Papaioannou we have created the penal responsibility of the ministers for their non-ministerial offences and we have given it to justice - now you come and say stay in Parliament? Get your ass together a little bit. You're dizzy. But no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. But I am not saying what I said before, because I want to make a more general political reference. What am I talking about? Ladies and gentlemen, if you read the draft law, it will remind you - if you were in the Chamber - of the debate we had on the abolition of licences. Do you remember that? It was about a year ago. I told you this would take years to implement and will not apply. One year later, I would like to inform you that the abolition of authorisations does not apply. You have come here, you have put - as Mr Denkias rightly said - a correct title 'Exit Court' and you have a content that undermines the title. Minister, I will ask you a question: How long does it take for a business, if it gets into this process, to come out? I don't think you said that in your speech, unless something I didn't notice. You, where are you a man coming out of politics, do you have any time? Time kills a business, small, medium, large. How long does a business need to pass through your mechanism procedures? I do not think you are aware of this. The debate in the House is calm. Parliamentary debate is calm. But it is not peaceful for cultural reasons. It is peaceful for reasons of lack of consciousness on the market. It is parliamentary blissful that today's silence in this House and the exchange of gratitudes and dissatisfaction with the "you" and the "you" and the glove. These are the issues that the world has. That's what you go under the bar, you don't handle it. Georgios Arvanitides, the rapporteur for the Democratic Partnership, described the mechanism introduced by your extrajudicial compromise with this draft law. Do you need this discomfort mechanism? Oh, no. It doesn't need too many cases at least. Mr Georgios called him a 'negotiation framework'. Mr Georgioda, that's not it either. It is a mere expression of good will. The 'good' Ministers of Ministers expressing their 'good' intention. The legislator expresses a will, as George Arvanitidis told us in our discussions. It merely expresses a will, i.e. 'what good it would be if...'. But its task is not to express a will, but to transform the will into specific legal arrangements. We are, of course, talking about specific legal arrangements, which are not the case here. Why should the decision to compromise be raised with the type of judicial decision? Why? Is there any reason to defend the content of the compromise? But the law and the practice of the courts point to the streets. What do you need to see this type of extrajudicial compromise? How long will it take? The Democratic Alliance through Mr Arvanitides has put you in place ten proposals, in which, since your framework is that, we are just telling you to record in the court secretariat. It's no use. It's what you're doing! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Do you understand, Minister? It's not a matter of language and long-term foreign presence. Do you consider the bureaucracy in both administration and justice? Do you realize what Greek citizens exist every day and how much they need from a government that will finally solve these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u148	Complete your thoughts, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u149	In fact, Mr President, I will conclude by completing the list of my questions with two questions. Why is it not that the bank's employee will not be deprived of his dignity today if he makes a regulation that is needed by the market and the borrower in question? I fear that if it is brought by a Ministry - as has happened too many times and not just in your days - it will bring it in a sense other than what you need. The strangles between the co-legislative ministers in the Hellenic Republic are well known and disastrous. Why isn't he here? Finally, does this mechanism need for all cases of extrajudicial compromise? Why is it not that it is necessary for some - perhaps few - to be required for others to be free of this compromise solution? These are real questions. They are questions that concern people who are on the market every day. We are used to it - and with this thought I close - otherwise we can count the time here in the House, and the businessman or the worker can count him. I told you that for a year your licence law is not applicable and I do not see anyone moving. He tells you: “What happened? It shall apply.’ One year - or even a month - for one operation is her life or death. You have not acquired, after two and a half years, awareness of the problems the Greek economy has. So one is the solution for growth: get up and leave.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u150	We shall proceed to the list of speakers with Mrs Aylonitou, a member of the SYRIZA. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill: 'Ordinance for corporate debt regulation' belongs to those categories of bills that seek not only to establish certain procedures, but mainly to change certain attitudes. In this case, what is intended to change is the prevailing culture between banks and lenders, a culture which I would say is in the past, in times past, a culture that prevents growth for the country. The bill relates to business loans, large and small, since it sets a minimum threshold for debts to be subject to its provisions of 20,000 euros. It wants to ensure the continuation of the operation of any highly indebted undertaking that has the ability to remain profitable before taxes, interest and amortisation, or which maintains a positive, clear position. These are the eligibility criteria. The bill introduces innovation into its regulation and debts to public and insurance funds. So it adopts the perspective of the highly indebted businessman, who doesn't see the money he owes here otherwise from the money he owes there. I note that this is a very important point in which the culture of the public with the mindset of the businessman differs. The public thinks that, because a debt took another name, its nature also changed. The businessman, but also every citizen in general, sees that all these debts are in the same way, since they will all be paid from the same pocket, theirs. On the other hand, however, the bill protects those who have to receive small amounts from the highly indebted undertaking, such as workers and small suppliers. It excludes those who have to receive up to 1.5% of the total debt of the debtor and, if they are many, the smaller ones, up to 15% of the total debt of the debtor. In other words, there is a firm culture, which runs the whole bill: the protection of the weaker than the strongest. The indebted company is protected by the banks and the public, which are stronger than the company. At the same time, however, small creditors, who are weaker than the highly indebted company, are protected against it. This protection is not provided unnecessarily and gratifyingly. It is intended that, as a result of overcompensation, enterprises that are functionally viable should not be closed down. Protects the company to protect the jobs. Protects the company to protect the country's GDP. What do the banks say? In the previous attempt that had been made in this direction with L.4307/2014, the banks, unfortunately, had avoided sharing. Today, an effort is being made not to happen again, with the introduction of certain innovations: Firstly, applications for admission are submitted to the Private Debt Management Secretariat, which transfers them to the banks. Secondly, it is defined by the Special Secretariat for the Management of Private Debt as coordinator of each case by the Coordinators Register. Thirdly, the arrangement procedure proceeds if the beneficiaries of 50% of the total debt are involved. Fourthly, the course of the extrajudicial procedure is defined as a step in the right direction precisely in law. Finally, the right to extrajudicial regulation excludes persons and undertakings run by persons who have been sentenced irrevocably for fraud of different kinds. They are, of course, listed in detail in the bill. It is therefore clear that the out-of-court settlement of Shiloam's swimming pool should not be made for systematic malpractices and fraudulents. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough for us to vote on good bills here. They should also be applied. In recent years, the Ministry of Economy and Development has brought them - and we voted on them - some very good bills, which have then dug up in their implementation. For example, Law 4442/2016 provides that sanitary shops are subject to a notification procedure and this time-consuming authorisation procedure by the municipalities no longer needs. But come on, which lasted four months, and the new regime is not yet in force, because a planned joint ministerial decision has not been adopted. In fact, with a circular of two general secretaries, Law 4442/2016 entered "the freezer" and restored the oldest licensing regime, as if Parliament had never voted anything. So in today's bill we must be careful, because if, for example, the Special Secretary for Private Debt is late to post the call for interest in registering in the coordinators register provided for in Article 6, the whole law will remain on paper. With this, therefore, the crucial point and the wish that what we are going to vote on this time will also be passed quickly, I am voting for this very good bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u152	Thank you to the MP of SYRIZA, Mr Helen Aylonitou, and to the consistency of time. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Adonis Georgiadis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Georgiade, just a minute, please, because Mr. Loverdos wants to say something. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u155	I'll only give you a second. Mr President, I have now seen - and unfortunately I did not have time to include it in my speech - that there was an invasion of members of the 'Rubico' in the Council of State. I would ask you very much as President of this House to propose a complaint to us. The House must make a complaint. One of the three highest courts in the country is insulted in this way. I think it is your obligation to take an initiative.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u156	We will be aware of this properly, Mr President. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much, Mr President. In fact, the invasion of Ruvikon took place yesterday. They shared brochures, they broke something and so forth. It is impressive, Mr President, that since yesterday's invasion of the government has said absolutely nothing, and from what I saw in the Association of Administrative Judges, a statement has been made on the government's dissatisfaction. It was imagined, Mr. Colleague, that the House is probably the last place the 'Ruvikon' has not entered. Well, wishing 'both to ours', because obviously the 'Rubicon' will also arrive here. Besides, now it's a bourgeois club, to give advice to those who want to break shops, and they have their anti-powered JEPs in Exarchia, so that, if the bureaucratic process gets stuck somewhere in their club, the problem can be solved quickly. Good, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, the state is doing very well in organising the anti-semitists! Minister, I will start with the last Mrs Aylonitou said and, curiously, I will agree. A bill, Minister, has no value for its intentions, but for its effectiveness. You have told us very nice words about your intentions. I would now like, if you could, in your dentistry, explain to us practically why you think this will work. As far as the banks are concerned, what is the incentive you give them in this bill to come to such a compromise and to proceed with such an arrangement? Do they have any pressure? Do they have any motives? Do they have any specific procedures? Answer: absolutely none! I myself - and I say this to keep it in the Minutes at a time when I make this challenge - tell you that after a year when we come to Parliament to check how many out-of-court compromises have been made by this draft law, once it has been passed, you will find that there will have been almost no one. It'll be in full number and too low. Because in fact, as planned, there is absolutely no reason for anyone to agree. It is very interesting that the bill has the title ‘Exit settlement mechanism...’. But he's not an out-of-court mechanism either. He's not out-of-court because he finally ends up with the judge. So what kind of extrajudicial is he, after he finally ends up with the judge? A compromise mechanism is not, because it does not have specific norms, specific categories, specific specifications, which are binding - that is the major - on the part of the parties involved, so that we can actually get to a massive use of this tool. So you finally leave the company, every company, to the mercy of the creditors. You mentioned - you said it yourself, and Mrs Jackson said at first - that you intend to bring the issue of the immunity of bank officials. But that would be a key tool of this bill. Without it, it can't work anyway. So what's the point of moving into two different bills for something that's actually the same thing? I will tell you - and it is good luck that Mr. Dendias is here - that Mr. Dendias, as Minister for Development, has indeed drawn up an impressive draft law, which did not foresee the judge and which was binding.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u158	How many applications were made?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u159	What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u160	How many applications were made?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u161	It wasn't voted after you shot us. Did you forget? Did you forget that you threw us sixty days before we got out of the Memorandum?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u162	Three adopted.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u163	I like how you're causing me, and since you're causing me, I'm gonna have to answer it. I heard Mr Tsipras yesterday - I was very pleased to hear him - and I heard the critical point, ladies and gentlemen. Now we can change the go back, Madam Merkel. Do you know what we have to say from now on? Go back, open-minded and responsible madam Merkel! That's the only way you're gonna have to say it from now on. When you represent a political area that your Prime Minister came to Mr. Hadjikolaou and said "the respectable and reliable Mr. Soibelle" and "the open-minded and responsible Mr. Merkel", while in previous years you had swelled us with the Germans, with the III Reichs, with the "go back, madam Merkel" and the rest, e, very much, please have the complicity not to interrupt. You've become a dog fool. Don't interrupt at least! So, let's be a little conscientious. I see Mr. Papachristopoulos. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, what I'm doing. I am on an ERT show - and here is to answer - he accuses me of corruption, of settling questions about Karajafiris and tells me: "If you want, sue me." He says to me: "My immunity will be lifted." Yes, sir. I said, "Good, I will sue you, you have said that your immunity will be lifted and we will go to court to prove what you say if it is true." The Ethics Committee is therefore calling for the waiver of Mr Papachristopoulos' immunity yesterday, which was committed to waiving his immunity. He went and begged that his immunity should not be lifted. "No, I didn't mean anything for Mr. Georgiades, I respect him, I honor him. I have no evidence.’
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u164	Lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u165	Don't be like that, sir. Let's go to court. Don't be like that. Pick up and say: 'I want my immunity to be lifted'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u166	Lie.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u167	I've already uploaded the video on my twitter. If you are honest and decent, when you accuse someone of something so serious, you will have the courage to take the responsibility of your act.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u168	I'll show who's lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u169	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u170	But if you blame someone for corruption and then you hide behind the immunity, while allegedly proposing the abolition of immunity, you are a common slander, sir, and I give you to the Greek people's judgment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u171	You've been saying inaccurate, as you have been accustomed to doing lately.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u172	And the video is there and your beams yesterday are there, you don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u173	You're saying inaccurate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u174	Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u175	I'll see you at the Health Committee when you call me, make you a humili.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u176	You're not gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u177	Please don't interrupt. Go ahead, Mr. Georgiadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u178	Apologise with courage, or come to court. Symptom!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u179	Calm down, Mr. Georgiadis. You've lost your temper a long time lately...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u180	Oh, of course, slow down! Since your buddies are protecting you, so you can swear and be ugly. Symptom, you vulgar!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u181	...and it doesn't do you good!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u182	Listen, I don't talk to people anymore, I don't need to. From PASOK to New Democracy, from New Democracy to Independent Greeks, to lick. Leave me now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u183	Who's talking now! Who's changed a bunch of parties!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u184	I've changed one, always on the same side. You're getting confused. Look around you who they are. Minister, to close, tell us by simple words exactly what part of this bill there are the incentives that will make this draft law operational, which will actually lead to specific extrajudicial compromises, which will benefit businesses and save jobs. If you have not predicted that, all you have brought here is a trial of intent. You will say what good people you are, what will be voted on by your Members and, as Mrs Aylonite said - I repeat the words of my colleague, so that I do not say it - 'after a few months we will be here and say that good legislation has been passed, which in practice is not doing anything'. If they don't do anything in practice, they're not nice legislation. If they don't do anything in practice, it's to have something to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u185	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u186	Yes, Mr. Papachristopoulos, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u187	For less, Mr President. First of all, I would like to ask Mr. Georgiadis to take the Minutes. I think he has the right to take it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u188	No, he doesn't have the right. The minutes of the Ethics Committee are confidential.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u189	Then I myself have to say the following. First of all, it bothers me to deal with personal matters and I think it is not worth Parliament. I would like to say this: in the debate that took place at the time, but also yesterday, I said that I never told Mr Georgiadis and what I am saying, I am proving that. The evidence I've brought, I want to think it was convincing. That is why I would also like to say a thank you to all the representatives of the parties who were present there and who are not my friends, with the exception of - and I understand that, because party discipline outweighs - the representative of the New Democracy, who defended me, because I have never been against Mr Georgiadis. My indiscriminate right is to defend myself and I said: "If you judge that I have slandered him, do what you think." You're telling me he's not allowed to take the Minutes. There's nothing I can do. I have to say it. I mean, calm down, tone down. When the representative of the New Democracy asked me if I believe that Mr Georgiadis then did so intentionally, I said that no, I do not believe it. Because we all know that discipline among the leaders often drives the MPs very often - perhaps me, perhaps other MPs - to make mistakes. I said straight and honestly that I don't think it has any involvement. He just begged me that night on the show to apologize to him. I say to him 'no, Mr Georgiadis, I am not apologizing for something I have not done'. That was the dialogue. I'd like to stop here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u190	Yeah, stop here, 'cause you don't care about this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u192	No, we're not going to keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u193	I apologise, because I am two and a half years of parliamentarians and with a personal point I have never dealt with in plenary. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u194	Good. Next week in plenary you will have the time to report on your immunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u196	Mrs Aylonite has the floor, because her name was mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, I am simply taking the floor to restore a misinterpretation of what I have just said. Of course, Mr. Georgiadis is doing so because he is in the interest of seeing it. I just said that it is a very good law, we vote for it here, and we just need to speed up the ministerial decisions accompanying this law. In other words, we must not fall into bureaucracy and delay these ministerial decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, may I have the floor? My name was mentioned to me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u200	No, of course not. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized, thirty-three students and students as well as three teachers from the 2nd Kydonian Municipal School of Chania. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] I will give the floor to Mr Demetriades, in order to develop a maximum of one or two minutes, because the Minister is here to answer. Mr. Dimitriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President, for the reason. It is an amendment concerning Law 2960/2011 of the National Customs Code. It is a provision that aims to establish a climate of confidence between investors and bodies belonging to the general public sector, as well as public limited companies and credit institutions, in which the Greek State participates or is associated with them where the transfer of their assets has been completed, in the context of privatisations or redemptions and/or special liquidation, retrospectively counted against a company and in exceptional cases of smuggling infringements, since the tender had not been notified during the tendering procedure in any way pending infringement of the investor concerned. In short, we want to unblock and create a climate of confidence between the future investor, any investor, since he has been aware and has a specific status, on the basis of which a business takes over, that he is not co-responsible for things that have been done in the previous period and for which he was not aware. The new investor is not in solidarity, precisely because he has nothing to do with it, and those responsible remain the ones responsible for these offences.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u202	The Deputy Minister of Finance is here...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u203	Mr. President, I...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Kegeroglu, you see I didn't give him seven minutes, and we didn't eat any order. He developed the amendment in a minute and a half. The State Secretary is here, and he will answer, so that the House can know about the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u205	I am also going to talk about and they will give us an overall answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u206	They've agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u207	If it relates, you have the floor, Mr Kegeroglu, to answer after the State Secretary as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u208	Thank you very much for giving me the floor, Mr President. We are discussing a very serious issue about the extrajudicial compromise, the procedures which, if really improved, will be able to provide solutions. If they remain as they are, I think that it will be just the legislation and the good intention of at least those who express it. But here we have to refer to the amendment tabled by Mr Dimitriadis, who every spring remembers that there is such an issue and tabled an amendment. I am tabling the amendment tabled by Mr Katsis and Mr Karastasis on 11-4-2016, which was certainly not accepted - and was correctly withdrawn. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This year, in April 2017, one year later, he deposited it on his own. Even the two colleagues couldn't convince. Why now? It is an amendment to misery, to the detriment of the Greek public. If Mr Papadimitriou, who really has a name, as the legislature responsible for the bill, accepts it, it is not for Mrs Papanatsiou to accept it or not, but for Mr Papadimitriou - he will stain his name with a disgrace. It is the amendment of the great recurring scam. It doesn't say who it's about. It does not tell us who is exempting and with what amounts. It does not tell us how many millions of people are missing in the Greek state, what the damage is, at last, who are the "neutrals" who are worthy of such a grace on the part of the government. No, gentlemen. This amendment must be rejected, not simply withdrawn. Dismiss the Minister responsible! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] It is shameful to return a year later, to give millions of anonymouss now, but surnames then. Mr President, I come back to the bill, hoping that Mr Papadimitriou will make his debt. I say that in fact, during the period of crisis there are too many thousands of people and businesses who have entered a very difficult phase and experience very difficult what we call 'the crisis'. It is admirable to fight thousands of families, the struggle they have given businesses to survive. Of course, there have been regulations, of course there have been support. However, it was not enough to save the whole of the businesses. We must say that with the worsening situation by returning to the recession in the last two years, with the capital controls, with the lack of liquidity from the banking system we have worsening the business environment and need more radical institutional intervention, so that we can support companies with a prospect of viability and, of course, those that cannot have an opportunity to regulate, so that they can partially restore their debts or as a whole. I wish. So, in hearing a draft law on the extrajudicial compromise, of course, we have all spoken positively. But then, seeing the provisions, working one - one of the articles, we find that none of them can be applied unless it is radically improved. First of all, the special non-confidential account for businesses must be institutionalised today so that the nipple from their neck can be paid for the workers, the insurance funds can be paid, the operating expenses and the suppliers can be paid, so that the operation of the company can have a minimum level of viability and, provided that this function, through the special non-confidential account, then see everything relating to the extra-judicial compromise. Tell me how the system can function with the thousands of companies that have to make transactions through POS, when all this money will not go to continue operation and payment of obligations, but will go to a possible debt in the DU? It is necessary to do this now, not after two months. This was, therefore, because it was the Prime Minister's commitment along with the legacy of dues since September 2016 in Thessaloniki, when we had tabled this comprehensive proposal, when the General Confederation of Professionals, Crafters and Traders and also the SSY of Traders had tabled such proposals, it was the only prospect to be able to move forward. Unfortunately, the government refuses to do so today, probably invoking - I do not know - a failure to negotiate in the sense that creditors did not accept this solution, and that is the solution that can give the prospect. We have tabled an amendment and we are calling for the specific inconsistency of the account to be established. In addition, we call for the compromise to be truly out-of-court. There's no need for a judge's decision. Simple information needs or judicial validation. There can be no decision necessarily. We must see that farmers, farmers, fishermen, fishermen, professionals must inevitably be able to join, even individuals. Even one who for any reason has debts that can be regulated in this way. The whole of the ombudsmen must be exploited and not just some, three hundred and twenty with a algorithm. What algorithm? SYRIZA? You can testify to the algorithm, so we can see who this algorithm is who'll choose from the thousand eight hundred, all three hundred and twenty. These are issues you need to see. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] "A positive use at three years" is wrong. 'From 2010 onwards a positive use' or 'up to the last five years', as we say in our amendment. All of this is what we ask you to do, that it can even be possible for a creditor to go to mediation. Why are you throwing him directly - he says - negotiation with the creditor, that is what he can do today. It can't be done. I close, because my time has been completed, saying that really an issue that could be hope and out of the way for tens of thousands of businesses, hope for hundreds of thousands of workers and unemployed people, who would be able to work on their feet, can be completely burned if you do not accept the improvements and the amendment we have tabled. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr. Dimitriadis has the floor for thirty seconds before the State Secretary responds.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. The amendment I tabled last year is not that it was not accepted. I took it back, as I put it, because there were serious objections from the Opposition to non-accurate definitions and situations, and I brought it back this time, and it leaves no room for misinterpretation under no circumstances.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u211	Good. The Minister of State, Mrs Papanatsiou, has the floor to answer the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u212	Yeah. I think what Mr Kegeroglu said doesn't have any truth. In this amendment, exactly as Mr Demetriadis has now become finalised - not as it was last time - it is that there are no co-responsibility for the civil servants concerned, provided that the date of transfer of the shares or assets was not notified to the investors concerned at the critical stage of the tendering for the transfer of these assets. It also states at the outset that those who are identified as the main responsible for depriving the infringement are not exempted from liability. So the co-responsibility of the buyer comes with this amendment, Mr Dimitriadis, to bring in. She can't have known her since she doesn't know her. I think that on this condition we are making it acceptable.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u213	What are you talking about? Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u214	Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u215	I react to the ministerial position under the Rules of Procedure. Madam Minister, for our part, and as far as I am concerned, I did not know the matter, in the past and in the Civil Service Objection to this amendment. Mr Kegeroglu told you something very specific, said to my colleague, namely. We didn't know you'd accept her. But, to see you, he's going to say you've come to an agreement. We ask you about the face or the face. There's been a rumor. It is not innocent of the amendment. There are many rumours and the amendment is not innocent. So, in order to ensure first of all that you have to ask for the matter to be postponed and for a report from the General Accounting Office to be postponed and the amendment to be taken on board. Let the government take the amendment on her. Not to bring her a Member without a report from the General Accounting Office. And find out how many economic issues are behind, but find out the faces, Minister. Mr Papadimitriou, you are the Minister who makes it or does not accept it. Don't make it acceptable. The sitting will not end today or tomorrow without a roll-call vote on it. There's a suspicion of corruption. So you should not lift the burden of this story.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u216	Please, Mr President, take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Teddy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I have to tell you that your attitude makes us an alpine impression. Alpine impression! And you're a new minister. This parliamentary amendment, Mr Colleague, was tabled today at 10.15 a.m. From 10.15 a.m. when did you get in touch with the Treasury, explain the productive causes of your parliament and the cases in which it relates, investigate the Treasury on what it is about and suddenly appear here the State Secretary and tell us that he accepts it? In fact, on the basis of the reasoning, which - it allows me to express - has elapsed, he did not say. The question is clear, Minister: why do you not have the courage to bring it? It's obvious there's a preconsensual. What are you doing? Where do you think you're legislating? Botswana? What's this mess?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u219	What kind of behavior is that?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u220	Who are they hiding here? Come directly and tell us what it is, what it is all about. Bring us the report from the General Accounting Office of the State and from there we can decide. You have passed as a government majority of such amendments and I have told you, in the presence of the Prime Minister here. We cannot add such ruffles. Come straight ahead and tell us - straight! - Who's it for, what's it all for? If there really is a need to help invest, we can help with you. But that's a puppy. You take an MEP, you make him submit an amendment. If I question my colleague, I doubt he knows who he is and who he is concerned about.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u221	Who's this about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u222	You are now coming here and telling us what you are telling us within two hours of the time when the amendment was tabled. What are these things? Where do we think we're finally here?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u223	Mr. Danellis wants to say something about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. I appeal to the Minister not to accept the amendment and, of course, he must do so for the protection of both his and his authority in this House. He has the right to bring this amendment, if he thinks that he wants to bring it, but through the Orthodox procedures: as a ministerial proposal and, of course, with the report of the General Accounting Office of the State and to explain exactly who it is about, to what extent it concerns them and how he thinks that such a matter can be legally resolved rather than in this way.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr. Dannelly. Until there is a substantial understanding of the financial staff, before we go to the speakers, Mr Haritsis has the floor for a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. When I presented our Ministry's amendment to the NSRP special services system earlier, I informed the House that a legislative improvement would be tabled in Article 1, so that it would be quite clear that there is no intention of changing the duration of workers' contracts, which remain indefinite over time. We are therefore putting this legislative improvement in order to ensure that the content of this regulation is absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u227	I would ask that the proposed legislative improvement be distributed to my fellow Members. Until we get an answer to the previous issue, we will proceed with Mr Antony Gregos, Member of the People's Association - Golden Dawn.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. On the subject that has arisen, we want to say that this government continues to legislate just like the previous governments. That is also the issue of the amendments. In a damaged economy by the criminal policies of the New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA, who are fully responsible for this situation by faithfully carrying out, as we have often said the orders of the loan sharks, we still have a draft law whereby the government is attempting to partially correct what it has destroyed and continues to destroy. On the eve of the fourth memorial and while traders, businessmen and the simple world are in despair, you are trying to alleviate the justified wrath of the world. The features and the plating image that you see the Greek economy are hugely different to the true image of the market. That makes sense, since you have nothing to do with the problems of the Greek people and because the greatest cowards are the so-called parties of the democratic arch. So let us remember what the debts of the parties have not been repaid and will not be repaid. We could even easily call these parties bankrupt in terms of their operation, their purpose and their prospects. So let's start from the first and largest malpractices, for which no extrajudicial mechanism is needed, but rapid collection and auction procedures, because that is what the Greek people also require. We have to say, until September 2016, the four parties, New Democracy, PASOK, KKE and SYRIZA, were due for capital and interest of more than EUR 440 million, with the amount growing constantly, as most of it is due and charged with interest on late payments. For these loans, the banks have created projections for losses of hundreds of millions of euros. For New Democracy and the PASOK, the forecasts amount to 90%. In other words, banks in their official financial sizes have recorded that they expect to collect only 10% of this debt. Indeed, these forecasts for damage over time will increase as the economic situation of these parties is constantly deteriorating. You could bring an amendment - if it were too late, we would vote - which would seize state funding to the parties that are required. To say here once again that Golden Dawn is the only party that does not receive state funding. And in all this, the Prime Minister continues his lies about supposedly development. In fact, he has recently used the phrase 'development, development, development', which means lies, new measures, overtaxation, wage and pension cuts, poverty, unemployment and much more. The draft law is assumed, according to the explanatory statement, to introduce for the first time an organised out-of-court procedure for the overall and long-term regulation of the debts of Greek enterprises, which, due to the acute and long-term economic crisis, are unable to serve all their accumulated debts to the private and public sectors. You forget, however, that this sharp and long-standing economic crisis is due precisely to the faithful implementation of the Memorandum of Understanding policies by the present Government, which, acting as the underhand of foreign institutions, focused solely on overtaxing natural persons and businesses, so that every sound business effort can be phased out economically and that businesses can be driven either into overcompensation and overcompensation or into a bundle. Especially in northern Greece, most move to neighbouring countries with catastrophic results. Can the introduction process eventually lead to debt regulation and business facilitation? I guess not. In the past, the efforts in question have proved ineffective and have yielded poor results, and the terms and conditions set by them have led with mathematical accuracy and within a short period of time to the deduction from the corresponding arrangements of the vast majority of the debtors who had joined them. Their failure was due to their undermining by the supervising institutions, whose demands the government too was willing to adopt. As a result, therefore, there was no real solution to the issue of highly indebted natural and legal persons, but simply any possibility of solving the problem in the future and, at the same time, of perpetuating uncertainty in the sectors of the real economy. And unfortunately, we see that in this case the purpose of the proposed draft law is also undermined and cancelled by such a regulation. Article 14 states that the special buyer, Mr Zaroulia, and the Commission and the Plenary Assembly - paragraph 6 (c) stipulates that any debt arrangement is reversed and resurrected if the debtor fails to meet the current public debt obligations. Furthermore, the fact that Article 3 lays down as a condition, in order to determine an undertaking eligible, that there is a profit in at least one use in the last three years, we would like to say this: this condition, apart from the economic circumstances in which more damage was caused, rather than a profit, should also include examining the turnover of companies, so that they can be helped and supported more than that, and not lead to a forced closure. Golden Dawn considers that the companies and all the activities of healthy production forces in each market segment will survive and develop only by relaunching the national economy on the basis of economic nationalism with the State as a protector and guarantor of national production. One final comment I would like to make, because something was mentioned about Turkey's challenges. I would like to say that Turkey has no place in Europe, no place in'slain Ionia'. Her position is in the deeps of the East. With regard to the invasion of 'Ruvia', let the world know that they have immunity, just like the SYRIZA Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u229	We are moving forward with Mrs Theodora Megalonikou, Member of the Centro Association.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this year, as we all know, we are witnessing the eighth year of memorial, dedication and economic collapse. In this time we have seen more than two hundred thousand businesses shut down, thousands of scientists and free professionals fleeing abroad and ultimately, it is estimated that over a million two hundred jobs have been lost over the years. In this dramatic situation one government after another is taking more and more substantial measures and is constantly increasing taxation. Indeed, the present government has voted for an insurance system which may also mean the final end of businesses, because I think it is tax. For years we have been constantly discussing the need for growth in the country. But dubious growth remains in theory, since no energy has actually been done to change business reality. So, for many years now, it has been and remains a constant demand for professional organizations to have an effective and comprehensive regulation of the liabilities of businesses. And we come today to discuss a draft law, which, although it is entitled 'Out-of-court settlement mechanism', does not actually make any difference to the problems faced by the business world. First of all, this mechanism is excluded, Minister, from the outset, from the point of view, free professionals, who do not forget that they are a large part of our country's productive activity and who have been terriblely affected by the crisis. The reasoning is that freelance professionals can join the law of Katseli. This is not enough, however, as the two procedures are very different in substance, since one requires a judicial decision and one is known to take a judicial decision with the Katseli Act for too many years. In addition, the provision in Article 15 that free professionals may require their debts to be regulated in public and insurance funds under the terms of today's bill is entirely vague, as it will depend entirely on the ministerial decisions that will be adopted in the future. Furthermore, the main concern and the objection raised by both our rapporteur at the stage of the debate on committees and the whole business world is the fact that the number of enterprises that meet the eligibility criteria is too limited. I had the impression, Minister, that it is a question of finding a realistic solution for the businesses on the edge of the cliff. If we are talking only about companies which have a positive effect on at least one of the last three crises, then we are actually talking about a very small percentage of enterprises that can join this mechanism. And despite the persistent pressures we have not received any convincing response to how many companies we are talking about, how many will join. And I ask: is it not reasonable for there to have been a study at first to calculate how many companies meet the criteria of this bill? The Minister has mentioned some four hundred thousand businesses. However, it has not been clarified either what kind of business we are talking about or exactly where this figure has emerged. Is the four hundred thousand companies arbitrary? At least in my opinion, it is worth wondering why, for example, it is not mentioned in the last five years instead of three years in order to increase the number of enterprises to be integrated into this mechanism. Also, given that many small and medium-sized enterprises have almost half of their debt to a creditor, at this point the bill is difficult to implement. In practice it will be extremely difficult to have a bilateral agreement. Once again, I ask you: if the debtor had not succeeded in reaching agreement with his lender so far, why now, suddenly, by means of the mechanism. It is also a disappointing sign that everything described in the bill will take many months to enable it to be implemented. Until then, companies will be on hold and - I am sorry to say this - they will constantly sink into their debts. I understand that the bill is trying to put a margin of security so that the scientists cannot exploit it - that is right - that they have destroyed their businesses to get rich. But in these cases the state must in any case locate them and punish them. We cannot, however, keep all these honest professionals behind, who have seen the labors of life destroyed, without doing absolutely nothing. Overall, today's bill does not meet either the expectations or the demands of the economy. After so many years when Greek businesses are destroying one another, they put on the table and fire workers all of us would expect a very realistic and comprehensive solution. Half-metres and small 'bumps' have long proved that they have done nothing. Businesses and free professionals demand that we really bend on their problems and offer them a real solution. We must really relieve the businessman and the free worker so that he can continue to have an incentive to stay in Greece, to work here, to hire workers here and to stop the terrible fleeing of Greek businesses abroad. Otherwise, if we do not achieve all of this, we are sure that we are doomed as an economy, but also as a society and a state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mrs. Big Housekeeper. I shall give the floor to Mr Spyridon Dannelis, a Parliamentary representative from the river, for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President, and I thank my fellow Member, Mr Tindemans, for the award of the series. Ladies and gentlemen, the political life of the place is characterised by a generalised hypocrisy and false dilemma. Nothing seems to prevent the main Prime Minister from becoming almost obediently transformed without feeling the need for any self-criticism, but cynicism by realism is separated from a delicate subtle line. Because the statement 'we were hallucinating', when they are not demarcated, is not self-criticism. If, in fact, it has been reconciled with the reality - and we wish it wholeheartedly - let it be clearly stated and set us the limits of the new reality that it has now realised. This will be beneficial to the political life of the country and, of course, to stabilising a society that is constantly losing the ground under its feet. For as long as it does not allow the "deep" state to meet with the "deep" party, blocking digital democracies, such as, for example, the largest investment that is under way, that in Greek. At the same time, however, the Chief of Officerial Reformation declares a liberal reformer. How is this consistent with the need to state in time and unnecessarily that there is no need to differentiate the present status quo between the state and the Church, when the issue of the constitutional review is open? Because he invoked his ideological affinity with Mr. McCrone, I cannot avoid temptation to ask myself whether he could condone the husband - I would stress: the husband, not the partner - of the wronged man at the time of a French police officer, who fell from the bullets of the paranoid gillutant the other day in the Elysia Fields? Would that be tolerable by his party? Would he dare to do so himself? Because, ladies and gentlemen, political liberalism has no economic cost, but it has a great deal of cost to votes. And we all know that very well. Unfortunately, the Conservative party has never reconciled at all with the protagonists of political liberalism, unlike the non-traditional Left. And I mean the renewative left once and for all today, some left-wing liberal voices of our political scenery, which unfortunately remain minority. Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to our bill. 60%, as you know, of the red loans in our country are business loans, and 70% are for small and medium-sized enterprises. A large proportion of the over-growth of these red loans was the nonsense about seismicism and its logic of "I don't pay". Today we find all this gigantic before us. Both reasons of moral order and of justice require an absolute distinction to be made between those who are really unable to meet their credit obligations when everything has changed in their lives and those that we call strategic bad payers. This must be ensured, because the logic of 'the profits outside and my own, your debts and yours' is still there, and this category of entrepreneurs obviously should not be our concern, and its approach should be quite distinct from those who should be entitled to have a second chance, and I am referring to the vast majority of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. The small and medium-sized enterprises are basically the backbone - we have said this repeatedly in this Chamber and we are all accepting it - of the Greek economy. It would be no exaggeration to say that today we are standing at the top of an active volcano, a volcano that, if it explodes, will break not only the real economy, but also the cohesion of Greek society itself. The bill we are discussing seems to be attempting to prevent this explosion, which is why the whole market is waiting for it and is waiting for it for two whole years, but, ladies and gentlemen, two years at a huge cost for the real economy. Private debt to taxi and insurance funds escalated to EUR 116 billion, rising by EUR 1 billion a month. The sums are versatile. Private debt to the banks reaches 194 billion euros, of which 106 million are red loans. In addition, Katrugalo insurance is essentially a second tax that turns the company into a madness, an insurance system that leaves no prospects for the small and the new business. It is no coincidence that the paddocks have increased and any new wave of investment that was expected has never reached the shores of the country. It seems, however, that you are still, Minister, to ignore as a government that time is money. There's another sense of time in here, another sense of time in real life, in the economy out. It seems that neither of us have learned that the delays and the continuum - backwards, the result of the ambiguity of certain ministers, even today - not only do they remove the exit from the crisis, but they always bring new and more irresponsible and unfair measures. We have not understood that the real economy, but the people of the market are constantly fighting over time. Time swells the maturities to the banks and the public, the banks then dry from liquidity and, of course, the black hole in the state's revenues is growing. In this bill, the time parameter has unfortunately once again been ignored, and it should be one of the main parameters that this bill should take into account. It is a draft law which could, of course, be a basis for a rescue, so that viable companies can regulate overall debts to both the private and the public sectors. Its aim must be another opportunity for as many companies as possible, companies which, by continuing to operate, ensure thousands of jobs, which are nothing but abundant. How is this achieved, however, by creating a complex bureaucratic and time-consuming framework? More than 20 supporting documents are required by the person concerned to initiate the procedure, and that alone is an extremely heavy desavadaz. Is it possible for the electronic platform to take three months from the vote of the present, when its strength should already be tested? Because by the fall that the system is expected to start, as you can see, there is a chaotic time for the economy. The intentions are exceptional, but the right organisation, planning and implementation of this plan are even better. In the weaknesses of the bill, I have to observe the following. The extrajudicial compromise cannot be a horizontal process for all debtors, small, large, well-paid, bad payers. We cannot put them all in the same bag, because we cannot all suffer the same lengthy process, regardless of the number of employees, regardless of the amount of debt, because that will ultimately favour nobody, neither the small nor the older. There must be a special provision, Minister, for the debtors and a rapid process for them will leave room for the greatest debtors. In any case, however, it is common place that companies, small and medium-sized, are unable to bear the burden of their dues for much longer. In addition, nothing has been done so far in the direction of the undeclared account for businesses, so that any revenue they have received is immediately seized. We must finish as quickly as possible with the extrajudicial compromise and its implementation and implementation and we must negotiate seriously, because I know that there are objections from the partners to the irreversible account. I think the next step should be the introduction of this irresponsible account. You should bear in mind that you have the Opposition with you for a more serious and more authoritative negotiation with the institutions. It is not possible for a businessman to fight for the self-evident costs of his business that he must continue to do to ensure the operation, irrespective of the dues that his business probably has. The payroll of the company's employees and the coverage of its suppliers must be ensured in order to enable it to survive and meet its obligations, because if the company's non-confidential account for business is not guaranteed, the extension of the use of plastic money, which has been dynamically introduced into the lives of the citizens and is an element of the resolution of the economy, I fear it will be suspended. POS terminals should be connected to an inconsistent account at the same time, because there will only be a serious incentive and the anti-incentive will be eliminated many times - for their placement by entrepreneurs. It will only be possible to extend further and to generalize the use of plastic money. After the inconsistency of a business account is introduced, we will also be able to rethink the ceiling for the cash transaction, which I believe may be even lower, and the problem of non-payment of taxes is even greater. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that we are debating today clearly and is in the right direction. After all, any arrangement was coming to take place in a fully drought landscape, it would be positive. The question, however, is to solve the problem and not just to improve the huge problem, which exists and is constantly growing. So the great cut to be made in relation to the enterprise must also be made in this bill, Mr Ministers. It is a crucial bill for the restructuring of the economy and the exit from the great stress of the vast majority of entrepreneurs, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. There are people who have tried and failed. We also need to deal with the problem. They are entrepreneurs who have put a padlock, leaving debts that in many cases will never be paid, because in essence these people do not have the right today to try again. It is therefore necessary to give an opportunity to those who have kneeled from the crisis and with courage they have tried to regulate their dues, but have not succeeded, because the concept of the second chance in the enterprise does not exist. That is why we must refer to this category of entrepreneurs, Minister, in this bill. As a country and society we cannot afford to leave anyone in its fate. I would like to close by mentioning Mr Carras' amendment, which many colleagues from all the parties have mentioned. I think that the special category of guarantors should be dealt with, because it is a special category. That is why, Minister, please see this amendment again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr Spyridon Danellis, Parliamentary spokesman from the Potami. Ladies and gentlemen, with the permission of this House we have made some mutual moves, without actually changing the order. Nobody's bothering anyone. In fact, even though they are in different parties - I am just saying it - Mr Triantafylides and Mr Carras agreed on a mutual movement. We must do everything we can to serve our colleagues. So Mr Triantafylides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u234	I thank Mr. Carras and Mrs. Theleritis for their kindness, because we must return to our town in Thessaloniki, Mr. Saridis. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have said in the Committee on Production and Trade, the draft law is indeed a resumption, a restart, which has two central objectives. It is intended to embrace the greatest possible number of enterprises, namely to exclude the world of the real economy, and, secondly, to attempt, Minister, not to be cancelled and neutralized by a transatlantic, by a tantalum which we have seen in our committee. One is bureaucracy and the second is the banking system. From what Mr Karamouzis, the President of the Banking Union, said, I see that he is not at all optimistic about the way in which the banking system faces this framework of law, so that it does not happen what happened with the previous draft laws - such as the Non-Projects, but also the previous ones - which have been attempted, but have remained either for the Minutes of the House or for the library of this House. I want to say a few things about it. It is clear that this draft law must take advantage of the negative experience of the past. In terms of its effectiveness, it has innovations. The innovatory thing is not being claimed by us, but by the institutions in the second process of hearing the bodies. It for the first time forms a holistic, out-of-court framework that gives an opportunity to a highly indebted, but viable company to gather all its creditors in order to regulate all its debts to them - i.e. banks, taxes, insurance funds, suppliers - on the basis of a comprehensive rationalised restructuring plan. Indeed, it is important that the Minister who has just arrived announced that this will also be the case for companies that have been closed down. In other words, the law is an opportunity and an incentive to relaunch a closed business. It is very important that her resumption should also seek to join the framework of the extrajudicial compromise. Point two. In terms of effectiveness, it enables all enterprises, regardless of size, including individual companies, to integrate with a total debt of EUR 20,000 or more. There Mr Karamouzis said: 'No! The banks want EUR 50,000 and more." And, unfortunately, some opposition parties also agreed with this. This includes the permanent outside such a framework, called 'free traders'. Free professionals look at these things. To see who in practice stand up for them, not in words, admonitions, and words. I would just like to submit to the Minutes the memorandum from Mr Corkides' SYRIZA. -, who noted: "In order to participate in the extrajudicial mechanism as massive as possible, the possibility of joining it and the free traders should be allowed, provided that the latter are waived by other regulations or the right to benefit from the provisions of the Katseli Act." The HR itself further states: ‘After the recasting of Article 15, paragraph 21, the possibility of including free trade professionals in the extra-judicial mechanism also arises.’. I am tabling the relevant statement from the ERIC in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the Minutes the above memorandum, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go to the next one. The process can begin even if it is of interest to 50% of the creditors of the company. Point 4: It also allows the most indebted enterprises to join under the sole condition that they cover operating costs in only one use over the last three years. Here I would ask the Minister, while remaining in three years, to see what is proposed by the Central Association of curatorialists of Greece, with the signature of Mr Michalos, which says: 'The provision of Article 3 at least from the last three years, should be extended further by adopting alternative indicators such as the net investment index and the jobs'. That's what we're pursuing, isn't it? First and foremost, isn't it not even a job to get away with? The most left-wing practice is 'even a job'. If, therefore, there is no positive use in the latter three, these qualitative indicators should be introduced either now or in the next legislation, on the part of the Ministry of Economy and Development, on the net investment index - in other words, investment expenditure, minus depreciation - and the proving job maintenance. In other words, if the unit and the businessman bear and say 'to have the jobs they prove to be, because they are insured in the ECA', we have no objection to override the framework and the insurance policy for one profitable use in the last three. Consider, in other words, these qualitative indicators relating to the maintenance of jobs and the fact that any gains in net investment are reinvested. The agreement with a majority of 60% of the participating creditors is facilitated. The procedure will be implemented in practice by a special information system which will act electronically throughout this process. And are you talking here - I think Mr Georgiodakis said so - about digital platforms? You've given the CAP's digital platform and every three and a little bit demolished. For here there is no talk of the Member or of the Member of Parliament after my actions. Everything's through S.A.P.A., with molecule. And since you did not foresee '5K', '6K', '7K', i.e. the recruitment procedures should only be done with an ADP, every three and a little bit, the digital platform of the ADP gives an account of the fact that 'it fell' because it did not separate the number of applicants. We are building a digital platform, which will really be able to function effectively and in particular with transparency and absolute clarity for this dialogue through the ombudsman between the human being who is interested in relaunching his business on the other hand by his creditors. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Thanks to these forecasts that I have just mentioned, the extrajudicial mechanism favours the production of results with clear timetables for each step of the procedure. A company, in other words, could have secured a set-up solution with all its creditors in no more than eighty-six days from the date of the submission of its application, which is very, but very important. In conclusion, Mr Minister, and in relation to the banking system, I would like to say that the 'jobs' of the market are well known. It is five thousand ABOs that owe 29 billion euros. Make it clear that there is now a presence of the Commissioner of State at the banks. The banks have made three recapitalisations and therefore the State is essentially involved in the formulation of their policies. Do this so that we can really run this process, as well, Mr Papadimitriou, and with the creation of the irresponsible operational account, in English "business running account". The account feeder for each business is the minimum breath to take and is a request which I submit and which also calls for the entire business world of northern Greece and Thessaloniki. Urgently undetermined operational account! I close - and thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance - with the entrepreneurship model. We call and claim the presence and the role of the private initiative. What entrepreneurship, though? What initiative? The one who does not say "the money in Switzerland", "the houses in offshore" and the losses of Article 99 of the entrepreneur who is involved in his obligations vis-à-vis the banks, meets his obligations vis-à-vis the insurance funds and in particular respects the collective negotiations and the costs of his employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr. Triantafylides. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to inform the House on Friday 28 April 2017. A. PERSONS First Circle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 751/25-4-2017 by MP Larisi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Anna Vageias to the Minister of Culture and Sports, concerning the First Ancient Theatre of Larissa and the strategy of the Ministry of Culture and Sport. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 749/244/2017 of the Member of Parliament, Mr Gerasios Giakoumatos, to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity, concerning the reimbursement of widow’s pensions for women of low-paid soldiers on duty. 3. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Association of PASOK - DIMAR Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour, Social Security and Social Solidarity on the immediate issue of a circular for the non-reduction of pensions (regardless of the fund) due to agricultural activity or subsidy which existed before 12 May 2016. 4. The Question No 752/25-4-2017 by Congressman I Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Liana Kanelli to the Minister for the Environment and Energy concerning the meat processing plant at Saints Theodores Lechains Ilias. B. PERSONS Second Cycle Questions (Rule 130(2) and (3) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 750/24-4-2017 by MP Evros of the New Democracy, Anastasios Prize to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the immediate restoration of the damage to the Bayazet Mosque in Dumotich, following the catastrophic fire of 22 April. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 753/25-4-2017 by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education, Research and Religious Affairs about the abolition or suspension of the 12th Municipal School of Thessaloniki. 3. The Question No 761/254-2017 by the Independent Member of the European Parliament, Mr Nikolaos Nikolaopoulos, to the Minister for Health, on the subject: "Will we submit an official application for the relocation of the European Medicines Agency?". 4. The question asked by MP Kilkis of New Democracy Mr Georgios Georgios Georgiodas to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: “An unjustified delay of the Ministry in requesting the Municipality of Kilkis to take over the project “Conservation and Upgrading of the National Stage of Kilkis”. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 2795/23-1-2017 of the Deputy Drama of the New Democracy, Dimitrios Kyriazides, to the Minister of Justice, Transparency and Human Rights, on the subject: "An exception to the financial management of Drama's Chronic Sports Therapy". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Democratic Integration of PASOK - DIMARKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKKGROGG to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Provide clarifications in order to ensure that the insurance and tax information of a company is sufficient in the case of capital companies, in order to obtain money from the Treasury, NWO, FTA or other bodies". Mr George-Mr Demetrios Karras has the floor now. Here, Mr. Carras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. A bill that deals with a settlement mechanism, i.e. a collective process of a form of bankruptcy and resolution, is always interesting. Objections and arguments have been heard. I will start by addressing two issues which have caused my interest in the draft legislation under discussion. One is why the restructuring agreement is going to be ratified by the court. There was a lot of talk in this Chamber, and I expected to hear what is the real request, so that creditors could get an enforceable title, even if the extrajudicial compromise was to be overturned. I didn't hear it. Please note. A second issue, which has created my interest and I want to comment on it, and that negatively, is that it also goes through the extrajudicial mechanism. What does the draft law say to us? It tells us that the debtor together with his associates, together with his family ultimately - and I will explain why I then say this - deposit not only their obligations, but also any assets that they have, every requirement, to judge not only the viability of a business, but also to judge the creditworthiness of the debtors. So I ask myself this: this private perimeter - so I call it myself, because I imagine that the microsupplier of a business, a rentalr of a store doesn't need it, wants to get some money if possible - which will be treasured, where will it be kept? The big creditors, i.e. the banks. We therefore create a full commitment of private property and not for the sake of the public interest in the sense of the public interest, the tax authority, so that it can turn into non-payments, but private bodies, credit institutions. I won't call it a file. I do not see it as a fresco, but in any case a number of abuses can eventually be made which will lead to the removal of very serious property. These were, then, two of my initial remarks. But what really alienated me, and I looked into it, is that this bill is intervening in the established principles of our rightful system. We all know that the guarantor has an ancillary obligation to the principal. We all know that in the small business case, the usual guarantor, the usual suspect is the wife, the child, the grandfather often calling him to the bank to put a formal signature to get the small business loan. So, is this bill coming and what does it say to us? He tells us that the guarantor is a contributor, that is to say, to the entire co-responsibility, with all his assets for this debt, which he has guaranteed. Are we here, then, in favour of unprotected creditors? Do we create in the Greek society co-responsibles whom we would have no reason to say whether we were exclusively applying the principles of civil law? For me to have an experience in these matters - and forgive me the ego I am saying it - these provisions express the credit system, the banking system. I shall now submit to the Minutes a draft loan agreement for a systemic bank debt. What's he saying? He says the guarantor renounces all his rights and all his objections. [[At this point Mr Georgios Dimitrios Karras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The same is happening today with the bill, because once the guarantor of the small enterprise comes to deliver all his assets - and we also have a question of potential and legality, because the restructuring contract does not sign it by the guarantor, accept it, have the power to decide, is not even called - it is bound by the application, it is bound by the submission of all the assets - assets, liabilities, assets - but the restructuring contract is not negotiated, but is not responsible. Why do the provisions of the articles tell us what? They tell us that it is not taken into account anymore for the viability of the company, it is taken into account for the possibility of repayment of the commitments made, the liquidation of the debtor's assets and the monthly amount or the annual amount that the guarantor can pay to serve the principal debt for which he has guaranteed. With the thoughts, therefore, I took the initiative - and I thank all my fellow Members from all the parties already mentioned - and I tabled an amendment. And I make this distinction: Since the law accepts small businesses from large companies, experience says - and it is certain - that the guarantors of small businesses have no involvement in the small shop or even the stand, if you like. They simply serve the relative or friend in fulfillment of either moral duty or consider it to be typical. They must therefore be released, at least at the out-of-court stage, if the obligations of the principal debtor are fulfilled, for the reason that they are neither involved in the business nor operated a business - even shop or shop - nor are they aware of its solvency at the time when they signed the guarantee contract. Because we are now relocating to enterprises that were working at the age of prosperity in 2005, in 2007. None of them - they were relatives, they were friends, they were neighbors - they did not ask to check the solvency of the signatory - and it would be funny to ask for it - and today it is called co-responsibility. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, please, Mr President. I have distinguished myself with the amendment and something else, Minister. I have distinguished the so-called 'commercial guarantors' of large businesses. If you are a shareholder of an anonymous company, if you are its CEO or commander and you sign with an individual guarantee, of course you expect directly or indirectly to benefit from this guarantee and speculators, if you want. But the little guarantor isn't speculating. The commander of the big business is speculating. And I'm going to finish and I'm going to say that. Reading today and preparing for the speech in Athensis, I saw that an amendment by a colleague, at least liked, who says that these legal persons are not declared mutually responsible. It's a familiar matter. Don't repeat it. That's where the government accepted it. She said Mrs Papanatsiou, 'I will accept it'. However, I have still not heard the liberalisation of the small guarantors, which the banks will be at stake, because they will judge viability on the basis of the elements of the debtor and the entire contributors. So I expect to hear the government's position on this point. I'll repeat something else. We exclude a large number of loans that you have not taken into account, Minister and gentlemen of the government. I had raised the issue of loans in a foreign currency, in a Swiss franc, and Mrs Papanatsiou had said, after a great deal of pressure, that the government will study it and give us her opinion. Well, I am presenting for the Practical Document of the Association of Greek Banks, which tells us that loans cannot be incorporated into a foreign currency and, in particular, into a Swiss franc in the extrajudicial mechanism, because the question of parity has not been resolved either by law or by law or in any other way. [[At this point Mr Georgios Dimitrios Karras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Therefore, in my view, we must not only stand by the legislation, but also in the amendment that will liberate the healthy forces of small and medium-sized family businesses, so that they can continue their course within the country and the economy. Don't convict them. On the other hand, I am willing to accept the responsibility of commercial debtors and accept any other arrangements. I would also like to call, however, for not only a request, but also a post, Minister, that the matter should be dealt with today. If I hear that it will be studied in the future, etc., it will be transferred to the Greek bells, the law and these people will either have the choice to hide or have the choice to deliver their property. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u237	Thank you to the Independent MP Georgios - Dimitrios Karras. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and how the House operates, thirty students and students and four educational attendants from the 12th Municipal School of Chania and from the 18th Municipal School of Chania. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government majority is organising another celebration, and today it solves another problem. In the end I'm afraid you're going out of boredom, ladies and gentlemen! So many problems you've solved, you won't have what to do, you won't know how to spend your time. This time you are celebrating, because you also resolve the issue of red loans. However - note what I am telling you - the problem of red loans in this bill will deteriorate. If you don't believe it, in a few months, we'll see you. Of course, it doesn't surprise me that the government has a torque to the fairs. He celebrates everything and their opposites. You have so far celebrated - remember how many times, hundreds of times, you have told us here in Parliament - that after the seventeen hours of negotiation that Mr Tsipras has done you have succeeded in having low targets in the primary surpluses. You celebrated because, unlike us analsexuals, neoliberals, three-blockers, you managed to have very low primary surpluses. Now, in the last few days you have celebrated exactly the opposite, that you have achieved, during a recession, high primary surpluses with a number of measures which have led to over-taxation of citizens. So you celebrate everything for both the white and the black and for the very opposite. I won't say that you're a government for the fairs, but that you have a toast to the fairs, you're gonna have to deal with it yourself. In any case, we have a bill here which should, even at the last minute, concern you. Minister, I really don't say it because we don't have a opposition object. Thank God you offer us every day. However, this will become dangerous for all parties involved: banks, businesses, the real economy. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, the government speaks of an extrajudicial compromise. This is neither out-of-court nor a compromise. There's a long-running procedure that ends in courts, which are already overloaded by the Katseli Act. Two hundred thousand cases are pending and are designated in law in 2032. This is where we're going to a hostage, both banks and business. The problem will become even more acute. There are also twenty-five documents - not twenty-four, twenty-five documents - certificates and attestations only to submit the application for membership of the mechanism. The electronic platform will not work and it is supposed to work in June, and the system will not work, but old, in the traditional way. Imagine what idyllic chaos will be created in the coming days and months. Also - and I consider this to be the most important of all - there is neither an incentive nor a sanction for the banks to deal with this issue and not to sit down and kick it. There's nothing. I therefore fear that this bill will also have the fate of the Stathakis Act, which was also passed in string and organs at the end of 2015, but the results are not visible either with a microscope. This is the situation and I am sure you will remember me not after a long time, after two or three months. Now you could say: 'And well, do you say it, do you have something better to suggest to us?' Yes, we have, and it's been tabled since last October. For small businesses we have proposed a mere extrajudicial mechanism, automated, which we describe in detail and is based on many of the laws Nines, which you froze him. You kept him 'in your fridge' and you didn't apply him for two and a half years. We are simply extending the logic of this automated mechanism to debts in taxes and in insurance funds. Secondly, for large businesses we are proposing regulations in the bankruptcy and bankruptcy proceedings, six specific regulations, which aim to limit, shorten and shorten the time required for these procedures. For the bankruptcy procedure, the aim is to fall from ten to two years. In this context we have proposed the introduction of incentives and sanctions to the banks so that they move quickly and tackle the issue in substance, because simply by setting targets that red loans should be reduced from 45% to 40%, say, you will not achieve anything. Because what does a mere target say? You could say no 40%, but 38%, 33.5%, anything. These things are not serious at all, Minister. That is why you will see in the next few months the problem is exacerbated for both businesses and banks. I am sorry that together with the troika you are coming and giving another push to both the banking system and the operations of the country, because together with the troika you bring this bill, which, instead of being a step forward, will be a step backwards. The issue of red loans will be exacerbated, and this is very important not only for the companies themselves and for the banks, but it is important for the economy as a whole, because, if we deal with the issue, we can actually channel more liquidity into the market, which needs as much as anything else. So the basic conclusion, Mr President, which also emerges from this bill, is that this government, despite its intentions, - I do not do a trial of intent - cannot get the country out of the crisis and the memorandum among others, and why it cannot read, read, read and read properly economic and European reality. The most structural reforms that make them wrong and those that make them right by itself are wrong policy. She's disgusting herself, and what she's doing right. In this way, Greece's problem is exacerbated, the problem of confidence in the economy is growing and the country continues to get deeper into the stagnation. Prime Minister for the last negotiation told us that at least you succeeded in not losing with a score that would remind us of "Barcelona-Greek". What I'm sure you're doing, though, is something else. It is that you had a 'Bronze' strategy, which resulted in 'Tala-Tala-Tala-Tala' results for both the country and the citizens! That is why I would say that it would be better for both you and the Greek citizens to leave an hour ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u239	Thank you Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, Member of the New Democracy. We're moving on to Mrs. Maria Theleritis, SYRIZA Parliament. To beg for consistency in time, or we'll be late, as you understand. Mrs. Thalerite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u240	Ladies and gentlemen, after the teaching style of the previous speaker - I will not go into his advice and urge us to leave - we insist that we stay and that is why I shall refer to this bill as well as to what we come to do. Firstly, today's bill is an integrated institutional framework because it enables sustainable businesses to regulate their overall debts to both private and public sectors. What's his target? To give this opportunity to thousands of businesses, not only in large companies, but mainly in small, small, small, small and medium-sized and individual enterprises, who have been most affected by the crisis, which the previous governments have led and come now and teach us what to do. We come today with this bill to give a breath to these businesses, to continue to operate on a more solid, sustainable basis, while ensuring jobs. What's the shape of this bill? For the first time, a holistic out-of-court framework, because it gives the opportunity to a highly indebted but at the same time viable business and not only after the Minister's intervention, as well as those that have been closed down, to gather all its creditors, namely banks, insurance funds and suppliers, in order to regulate the debts to all of them, on the basis of a rational restructuring plan. It also enables all companies, regardless of size, including individual companies, to join with total debts from 31-12-2016 from 20,000 euros and above. It also provides the possibility of joining even the most indebted companies, on the sole condition that they cover operating costs in only one use over the last three years. I think, as Mr SYRIZA said before, that we should look again at jobs and the extent to which it contributes to the government's investment programme. We have to look at some criteria so that if this one year is not the case the company covers its operating costs, that this possibility is available. It is also an opportunity to regulate, which is tailored to the needs of the company and to the actual ability to serve the company’s liabilities. That is why this arrangement includes generous reductions in interest rates, prolongations of repayment periods, and even write-offs of debts. It also provides for the possibility for the debtor to settle debts to the public and the insurance funds up to a hundred and twenty monthly instalments, with a minimum payment of EUR 50. It gives absolute protection to small creditors, who can fully claim all their claims, and this process is carried out in practice through the information system, which will be conducted electronically in step by step, reducing both management costs and the time required for creditors and debtors. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this bill is a valuable tool for rescuing and restoring businesses, and at the same time I would say that it contributes to suspending the growth of unemployment and innovating, given that all previous legislative initiatives have actually led to a gap. Here I would like to refer again to the opposition, which criticised the effectiveness of this bill and to see a little what they did before, through the legislative initiatives that they have adopted. Article 44 of Law No 1892/1990 was circumvented on the ground that there was no control over the creditors concerned and led to the destruction of public money. The transaction procedure of Law 3588/2007 was also being circumvented because there was no commitment to comply with the agreements and it was an attempt to restructure the companies. There were legislative initiatives that were developed after 2007, such as, for example, the old article 99 of the previous Commercial Code, which basically those who looked forward to it actually wanted only to take preventive insurance measures to divert all the necessary measures from their creditors. Thus, they did not take any further steps to reconstitute the businesses. And finally, there was L.4307/2004, known to everyone as the Law Treasury, which was never actually implemented, because there was virtually no application for resolution for any business, not because SYRIZA threw Samara government, as reported by the New Democracy MP, Mr. Georgiadis, but because the law provided for the first time for the discharge from the public sector and then allowed it to resort to other creditors, whether they were banks or private creditors. All these procedures - and the previous speaker is right - were essentially preliminary procedures and their use by businesses led to stigmatisation. This out-of-court compromise proposed by the government differs substantially and on the basis of a procedure, precisely because it is not a preliminary procedure. So it's a different proposal. Therefore, if there is no compromise at one of these stages and the whole process is fruitless and brutal, this does not lead to the company going bankrupt and therefore the company is not being stigmatized. To conclude, I would like to say that in fact the innovation of this bill is in the capacity of free professionals and self-employed people to benefit from these favourable provisions of the draft law. It is an addition, which has actually been included after consulting the stakeholders. And here we should remember that this is very right and for the benefit of the free professionals, because so far free professionals and self-employed people have been excluded from all previous efforts, and they could have joined Article 99 and the Katseli Act, so that their businesses can be shut down and their first residence must be committed or auctioned. So here we are talking about an innovation really. This out-of-court system of corporate debt regulation is a new institution, which is really seeking to relieve companies that are in a fragile state of financial crisis. And we must point out, to conclude, that this mechanism also includes appropriate security barriers, so that the so-called'strategic poor payers' are not rescued through it, which, for their own benefit, direct their businesses, their workers and their creditors to economic deadlocks.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u241	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u242	We must therefore, ladies and gentlemen, give this possibility to the firms affected by the economic crisis to be able to resuscitate, by voting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Ms. Maria Therleritis, SYRIZA Parliamentary. Mr Panagiotis Mitatakis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor and immediately after Mr. Dendias, Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u244	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for the past two years, our country has been taking steps back to the real economy. The country after the development of 2014 returned to the recession, increasing the problems of borrowers. A week ago the Statistical Office announced a primary surplus of 3.9%. Let me not share the government's joy because these 7 billion primary surpluses together with the 4 billion late public debts are, in fact, a bleeding of the real economy, which leads to lost investments, lost jobs, loss of consumption and the liquidation of deposits. And this is linked to what we are discussing today, because it is essentially a reason for launching red loans. It is a problem that you said you would legislate two and a half years ago and today the bill is still on the knee. You were elected by slogans against austerity and eventually brought austerity, in 2016, eight times more than the program needed. Households and businesses have now reached their limits, and this is reflected in the implementation of the budget. Of course, one in the negotiations is now one of the'red lines': the red line of not reducing the main pensions - now, it is assumed, of course, that personal differences will be abolished - the red line of not reducing tax. The tax reduction is coming. And the overall solution you said as a prerequisite has left your political speech. And you're not telling us, since there's a surplus in 2016, how you can use this for the real economy. You could reduce, for example, the advance tax of 2017 for enterprises and free traders, a measure that would have an impact on the budget for 2017 only and would immediately give a liquidity injection, would support the development of the Greek economy and would help to repay loans from businesses and free traders. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's unfavourable climate, it is assumed that today's bill would be a breath. I say "supposedly", because you brought a bill far below the expectations you systematically cultivated. Today's bill is not an answer to the 100 billion euros of non-performing bank openings. You have brought a procedure which is neither simple nor, in the end, out-of-court proceedings. You are talking today about changes in the bill, which you had not even informed the opposition parties yesterday. Of course the acidification is that in the morning many of these changes were announced by the majority rapporteur and not by the Minister responsible. Two and a half years later, on such a big and important issue, this bill is still written on the knee. Of course, the bill lacks provision for the responsibilities of bank managers and management from the restructuring of loans. You said that the provision would come to a subsequent piece of legislation. It seems, Minister, that you are not in a hurry to implement your own law. Of course, the rules of good legislature insist that the relevant provisions should be brought together in a single text. The delay in setting the liability limits for bank managers, in laying down rules for those managing the restructuring of loans, has caused serious market damage for two years. All the relevant procedures have been frozen, nothing is going on in the banking market, and you have recently created a climate of intimidation of managers, cultivate an insecurity to bank managers, so that no one ultimately takes responsibility for the restructuring of debts, with serious consequences for banks, but especially for the companies themselves, which could have been refined and for which the 'time' factor in an economy that remains in the recession is the most important. In general, however, the 'time' factor for this government seems not significant. You do not show any interest in moving quickly on the issues that concern the real economy. Slow down! All in their time! The paradox here is that, on the one hand, you are talking about loan settlements and, on the other, I have also raised it in the work of the committee of inquiry - a climate of persecution is expressed indiscriminately by every bank executive who dared to restructure a loan. That is why I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this provision should be specific and should be brought to Parliament as soon as possible. The amendment of Article 12, which concerns ratification by a court of the compromise, must also come immediately so that the procedure can be simplified. I hear you're considering it. But today we have arrived in plenary and a concrete solution has to be found. Do you realize the paradox of the way you are legislating, when before such an important bill is passed you have already announced two serious amendments, but which you have not yet legislated? Today's legislation is in danger of becoming a law that will necessarily be subjected to countless changes, as you have already done in insurance with the Katorugalou Act. Almost every bill comes an amendment of the Ministry of Labour. The other risk is to transform this bill into a new Katseli law and the cases will be dealt with by the judiciary after 15 years. On the contrary, the New Democracy has tabled a comprehensive proposal on the extrajudicial compromise, with quick and clear procedures. This is a genuinely out-of-court mechanism and with security barriers to the creation of new strategic misappropriations. Ladies and gentlemen, the economy needs tools. Tools, however, simply and easily in their application, to be able to get ahead. The real countermeasures in the neck of the new measures which soon come are to give production Greece the opportunity to recover and start operating again. Unfortunately, I fear that this bill is another missed opportunity in the effort that should have been made to relaunch the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Nikolaos Dendias.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start from now on. This morning, the Chief of Officerial Representation, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis visited the President of the Parliament. The visit was intended for the Chief of Representation to draw the attention of the President of the Parliament to the institutional issue of how to legislate. Mr. Mitsotakis made statements later. It's already at your disposal. I would like to say, however, that what makes us a tragic impression is that 'before a dilemma you are voiced...', Minister, before us, the amendment to Mr Demetriades's amendment - which, as a whole, confirms what Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy claim about how to legislate. This is a legislation that is unacceptable to the occasional knee, at best, or under the cloud of possible corruption, in the worst case, such as the one we are facing here. Mr Minister, because you have the institutional responsibility, I want you to tell me whether or not you accept it. Please do not think that we have the patience to wait until the end of the debate to tell us what you are going to do, in the hope that we have forgotten about this or that we have dispersed our attention. I repeat that if the government considers this regulation necessary to encourage investors in the country, let it explain, let us bring a explanatory statement, let us bring a report from the General Accounting Office of the State and we are here to stand up. We have done so many times, which the current government majority has never done. This way of legislating, however, on every sensible man puts suspicions, heavy suspicions, Minister. And because you are recently returning to Greece and some time ago Minister and because the government will not be long-term - you will allow me to tell you, without a personal element - and you will not be long-term in this chair, it is a pity in this short period that you are being retreated, which in the end - they do not belong to you and do not characterize you. I now move on to the critical issue. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the number one issue of the Greek economy, the red loans. When the then Prime Minister, Mr Samaras, gave me the honour of making me a Minister of Development in June 2014, I chose this issue as one of the two issues I had to deal with. Then a whole design was created - I'll tell you later - about what should be done. It is not just legislation 4307/2014, what you have the kindness of many of you to render it in my name. It's more complicated. There was another piece of legislation. Then red loans were made at about 70 billion. At the moment, according to the best calculations, it's 110-120 billion. I sincerely assure you - and remember - that there is not even one in a million people's economy to recover if this issue is not dealt with. It can't be done. There can be no investment in Greece when all entrepreneurship operators are overdue. It makes it impossible to continue economic activity. I'm saying again, we're not moving in empty time. The situation is getting worse. Here, then, we have an effort announced by the government for two and a half years and which has the ambitious title 'Creditarisation Mechanism for Business Debt'. We would like it to be a successful effort. Is it? It is not, ladies and gentlemen, and I tell you without any opposition criticism, but simply with the anguish of a person who, I think, saw, in time - because 2014 was not our Memorandum of Understanding - the enormous problem and tried and saw the same issue in two and a half years' time. It is clear that he is not out-of-court, it is obvious that it is not a mechanism and it is obviously not an arrangement. What kind of extrajudicial? Article 12 provides for recourse to justice. Mr Karras asked why he did not answer the question with the reasonable answer - which is obviously - the execution. If this were the choice and the question, it could be achieved by other methods, for example a notarial document. We didn't have to burden justice. In any case, however, our rapporteur, Mr Georgiodakis, and the colleagues who spoke, Mr Georgiadis, Mr Hatzidakis, Mr Metarakis, has developed all this. It doesn't mean to repeat them. I am simply saying that what is happening here is that you are proposing, Mr Minister, an optional negotiation plan, without pressure tools and without motivation, and in this sense there is no chance that this will be implemented. And as if that were not enough, there is a technical condition here, the creation of an electronic platform, which also does not exist and which, according to the best forecasts, seems to be ready at the end of the year and through this platform, infinite information should be moved. Because this legislation also has a subtle bureaucratic mechanism, twenty-five certificates - things, miracles - which are extremely difficult - you know, we all live in Greece - to be able to work. Imagine, then, no incentives, no penalties, no technical support, not anything that can facilitate, in order to avoid bureaucracy, but hope that the biggest private debt problem will be solved in the history of the world, with the exception of the Italian, but with different parameters. So, ladies and gentlemen, is it strange to tell you that there is not one in a million to work? Please, very much, next year to do again - we will probably be in other roles, but it doesn't matter - with those in the Chamber in the same debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u247	You said that last year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u248	Every week.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u249	Possibly. However, to be informed, it has a constitutional conclusion and it is your end. You're gonna tell me now: Good, you're telling us. Why didn't you? That's right. Let's go back and see what we did. You'll allow me two minutes for that. First of all, Mr N.4307, ladies and gentlemen, he had a completely different philosophy. L.4307, the one with the kindness of calling him "Law of Treasury", did not work for two reasons. The first reason is that it wasn't the whole law. The original legislation before, had a next piece, because it had to be holistic and that philosophy is correct. It's the law wrong, but philosophy is right. It had to be inside and the public and insurance funds and the debt side to the banks and the private. So the original plan of the law then had it all. Then I disagreed with Mr. Hardouvelis. As a result, the law was limited and only passed as the part that concerns me and had my close responsibilities now, the private debt, and indeed, the day that I had already moved to the Ministry of National Defence. I came here, recommended the law and went to take over the Department of National Defence. As regards the second part, however, you will allow me to tell you why the law did not work because it did not work. She said, of course, that there was no application before. Inaccurate. About sixty or something was submitted. But not to laugh at each other, the reality is that it didn't work. Why didn't it work? I'll tell you why it didn't work. For you deceived it on the day you were elected. Mr. Skrekas, who succeeded me, had already made sure that both Templates were issued, the models for the law and then Mr. Stathakis became, if I remember correctly, Minister and the government as a whole, they declared that there would be sedition, that all the money would be spared. Consequently, the provision of the legislation of 4307, which provided for cuts of up to 50%, was considered to be totally inadequate. And if I were to be told they'd give me everything, why would I be subject to a law that at best, and on condition, would only cut me off half? Do you know anyone who would go into that logic? So saying that the model is wrong, because it wasn't applied, when you secured the conditions for not applying, I'm sorry, but it leads us to a vicious circle. I want to tell you something else, too, so we can be honest with each other. This piece of legislation, Minister, does not have Greek signatures unless you disprove me of the information we have. We have clear information that it is written by a specific legislature outside Greece, it has been sent to Greece and only translated by a legal office, with few differentiations. It is a piece of legislation outside Greece, ladies and gentlemen. We copied it! We translated it and copied it! With good intentions it has been written outside Greece - I do not blame anyone - but, in ignorance of the Greek reality, in the sense that if we know the problem, for example - I say a country - in Spain, we can also solve the problem in Greece, ignoring that the parameters are different. The fact that I owe Spain does not mean that I have the same problems when I owe Greece and that I face the same challenges. And I usually don't use countries by chance. But there is another responsibility here, ladies and gentlemen, for our lenders, for the troika. We should also be aware of that. Because accepting and agreeing to these things, I think that it also raises a question of their ability to help the country modernise. Because in all this, obviously, its theoretical foundation is not only to be collected or served by lenders, it is, as at least the lenders claim, the country's modernisation. I dare even say that some, when they talk to each other, talk about violent modernisation of the country. So when there is a need to modernise the country, there is a need and a seriousness of the framework for modernising that country. What is happening, ladies and gentlemen - and I tell you with pain of soul, no matter what party or faction - is that the law of Greece has been turned into a rag, a disgusting rag without any legal excellence, without any philosophy behind it, with provisions which invade two different directions, the same unpopular ones: one part by means of the legislations dealing with the memoranda, the memoranda of legislation, and the other, through the directives, which also lack philosophy, also enter with intense arbitraryness within Greek law and destroy its structures. When this period is over and we go back to see what's left of Greek law, the moment will be extremely melancholic. So I come back and say this. This piece of legislation doesn't help. It doesn't help in any directions. It does not help practically, because it cannot resolve the matter. It does not help institutionally, because it does not have, beyond the initial philosophical thought of all debts under an umbrella, any mechanism and any other thought, which can serve something. That is how we make this part of a whole series of legislation, which has no practical effect. And since you might say that these are opposition words, I would remind you of the following. Do you remember L.4412/2016 for public procurement? This law provided for eleven regulations. In addition, the Commission considers that Two of them have been issued so far. The law is inactive. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need a minute more, Mr President. I won't be long. Do you remember Mr.4441/2016 on simplifying the establishment of businesses, who came here with fanatics? This law provided for ten regulatory acts. Of these ten, one has been issued. The law is inactive. Do you remember the other law, Law 4442/2016, on the institutional framework for economic activity? He predicted more than twenty. Twenty-five I have counted them, but there is a matter that one could do in the twenty-five regulatory acts. I have to tell you that there has not been a single issue. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to other things, this ministry, this government, therefore, has a long duty to legislate poorly, inappropriate and unenforceable. Do not add one more to this long series. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u250	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr. Nikos Dendias. Mr Marios Georgiadis has the floor. Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, too. I would also like to thank you for your indulgence in the procedure and the service you have done to me because of the unsuccessful obligation that I had this morning and could not be at the moment when I was in plenary. Ladies and gentlemen, tens of times we have referred from this step forward in the blockade, inertia, in the abstention, postponement or abstention from the lack of initiative by the Ministers of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL in order to avoid interfering with matters of their competence, which nonetheless afflict society all this time. The big problem is, when they finally decide to deal with and intervene, they do so in such an unarmed way, that instead of extremising situations, unnecessarily upsetting, disrupting sensitive balances and creating more deadlocks. All of this perfectly describes the draft law we are discussing today. It was natural, after eight years of crisis, of course, recession and overtaxation and accumulated debts, clearly under the responsibility of that government, to reach this conclusion. Because everyone was hoping and waiting for something opposite. And the government, after months of delay, finally presented it to us, likewise, as salaried surgery. Unfortunately, however, for the government and the market, 'coal the treasure'. And to be clear from the outset, the out-of-court settlement mechanism is not out-of-court and does not regulate. This is the conclusion from what we have read in its provisions and from what we have heard and during the committees. Before I begin, I should briefly refer to the current situation. The Greek systemic banks have committed to the European Supervisory Authority that by 31 December 2019 they will have reduced non-performing loans by EUR 40 billion or 38% of the total, a difficult objective, given the government's suffocation and the lack of development prospects. According to the 2016 figures, non-performing loans approached the EUR 100 billion i.e. 50% of the total portfolio of loans. In addition, in 2018, the Greek banks will submit the European Central Bank at a strict stress test in order to assess their capital adequacy on the basis of 2017 data. Therefore, not only should we prevent the further creation of red loans, but there should also be a significant reduction in non-performing exposures. The existence of loose arrangements provides opportunities for exploiting the out-of-court settlement by poor debtors and creates conditions of undistorted competition at the expense of companies that have been consistent over time with the service of their debts. Let us not forget that the law of Katseli is currently pending a hundred and fifty-five thousand applications for legal membership by 2032. In Article 1, therefore, in addition to the possibility of adjusting business debts, debts may also be included from another reason, as indicated, the condition that it includes not only the personal debts of the operator but also the associated persons (case T), relatives up to a second degree. In other words, in order to know and make it simple for those who are listening to us at the moment: Holidays taken by the businessman's children for travel or consumer loans that the wife has taken to buy a car will also be regulated. And regulation, of course, means a possible deletion of debts on the part of the banks. Of course, we realise that private debts should also be taken into account in order to better identify the possibilities for repayment of the debtor, but we consider it unacceptable that the regulation should be included and that the rest of the Greek people should be charged. And when I say "paid to the Greek people" literally, as we all know, from 1 January 2016 to any new - and beating - the recapitalisation of the banks is likely to be covered by a public deposits haircut. And if the relevant scientific documentation is needed, we can help you. There is in the accounts the basic principle of the self-sufficiency of the unit of account, according to which the undertaking has a separate accounting system, its own legal personality with requirements and obligations other than those of the operator. Which of the associated persons will benefit first from any write-off of debts? What sort of entries will be entered in the accounts when the instalments that include liabilities and liabilities of third parties are paid out from the company's cash? In Article 2, it is true that the EUR 20,000 limit for regulation, bearing in mind that private debts are also included, is very low and the system will probably be very burdened with minor cases and the courts will be overwhelmed by requests and documents. In our question to the committee, Mr Papadimitriou replied to us that he has no picture of the number of enterprises that can be subject to the mechanism. So we assume that the limit entered without any substantial study. We do not adopt the positions of the Greek Banking Union, but we believe that the limit of EUR 50,000, which it proposes, seems to be placed at more reasonable levels. It is good that the Minister in the committee accepted our request and made it clear that companies which have ceased their activities will have the right to join the mechanism if they have already submitted a declaration of reopening work. For the requirements of Article 3 and despite market assessments that the arrangements may involve EUR 35 000 to EUR 40 000, the multiannual crisis, the recession, the deprivation of funds and the lack of measures by the current government have not allowed many businesses to have profitable uses. Furthermore, the financial statements for 2016 have not yet been closed and there is information that all over the country is a race for creative accounting in case this use can appear positive. In addition, the selection criteria should be not only quantitative but also qualitative, because we will be led to the acidist company with a loss of EUR 100 for three uses not being regulated and a company with profits of EUR 100 for two uses of EUR 10,000. Perhaps the existence of quality criteria, such as maintaining the number of workers for a reasonable period, would help businesses better and at the same time help to combat unemployment. We're going to Article 4. The determination of 31-12-2018 as the final date for the submission of an application will result in significant debtors having the comfort until then to flee, but also to abstain from any initiative to regulate their debts, and the smaller ones to ‘saving’ the system, leading it to its limits. Nor must there be the slightest possibility to submit a paper application, as referred to in paragraph 6, as an alternative to the completion of the electronic platform. We shall proceed to Article 5. If we try to count the documents required to accompany the application - and I refer to attestations, copies of financial statements, certificates, balance sheets and so on. - We'll probably get over the number 50. This list is considered to be particularly excessive, the most bureaucratic one that could exist and certainly is an anti-incentive. It should be noted that many of these documents already exist in the individual public electronic systems and could be searched by service and should not be unduly burdened by the debtors. In Article 6, in the case of non-covering positions of coordinators, the new call for expressions of interest should not only be for lawyers, as other specialities are ignored, especially economists. Since the computing part of the regulation and the specificities of banking products are more suited to the knowledge of economists, the thinking of selecting only ombudsmen who have the legal status is contrary to the logic of equal treatment of all scientists. Besides, all ombudsmen have the same education and accreditation. The provision in paragraph 1, in the register of the Private Debt Management Secretariat, of registered accredited ombudsmen, actually leaves an open window to be used in the process and not an ombudsman. And this, at a time when there are some two thousand accredited ombudsmen in the Ministry's register today, who are fully in line with the expectation of increased applications for debtors. In addition, while it speaks of hundreds of thousands of cases, not all of the accredited ombudsmen are exploited, but it is preferable, without clear reason, to have a system of only three hundred and an unknown number of participants, and even with a limitation on their geographical spread. In Article 7, generally the role reserved for the coordinator is underestimated and is not appropriate to a lawyer or another scientist with experience. The duties are entirely consistent with those of secretarial support and the clergyman. It would be more effective if the ombudsmen had a more important role in reaching a compromise between the parties. For example, the law does not provide for any verification or verification of the requirements recorded in the situation of creditors beyond the control of the completeness of the file. At this point the Minister retreated and told the committee that the expert's duties would include the verification of the creditors' requirements, but even so the improvement would be minimal. Incidentally, for this verification, I would point out that we proposed it during the committee and proposed adding to the documents in the report the statement signed by a auditor or auditor or audit firm that would certify the accuracy and validity of the situation of creditors. Article 11, it is obvious that a small enterprise will be unable to assess a proposed solution due to a lack of the necessary know-how, but also to the amount needed for the remuneration of an expert or assessor. Perhaps the Ministry should consider ways of partial costing through, for example, ERC programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises. In Article 12, which confirms that the mechanism is not out-of-court, the procedure described is too long. It requires resurrected procedural complications with months' time and it is certain that the multilateral ratification of the agreement will not achieve the savings of time it seeks. The five-month projection cannot be verified in practice, at least for the already charged Athens, Piraeus and Thessaloniki prototypes, and there are also estimates that the procedure can last even eighteen months. He promised, of course, that he would introduce a simplified procedure in cases where no objections were raised during the extrajudicial procedure and there was no deletion of a non-contracting creditor debt, so a judge could be validated without hearing. It does not sound to me as a simplification that deserves praise, and I think the authorities should try a little more. In Article 15, paragraph 21 could be a good provision for freelance professionals, but it provides only for their public and social security obligations to be regulated and not for banks. In Article 16, we consider it necessary for the platform and process described in Article 16 to be fully electronic for all applications, since the explanatory statement also provides scope for the non-electronic conduct of the procedure. In the three months remaining until the entry into force of the law, the setting up of the relevant platform must be completed so that all stakeholders participate on the same terms and that the fears of operators are reassured that it will not be possible. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] The Minister in the committee said that the procedure has been opened for a long time and that he will be ready in time. I do not want to question what he has said, but how has the procedure started, since paragraph 2 provides that a CSM will be issued under the conditions and technical specifications of the electronic platform? In addition, what standards do they work today? I would also like, if possible, the Minister to inform us when the Ministry of Justice is planning to take the legislative initiative to protect against unfair persecution by the representatives of creditors, bankers and civil servants, in fact, who will consent to regulation - write off debts. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law is clearly not a product of serious study and does not in any way satisfy the stakeholders. It is, and it will certainly increase suffocation, creating more problems for both entrepreneurs and banks. That is why we are voting against this draft law in principle and we insist that it be put on the articles and amendments in the vote in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr. Georgiadis. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organized and operated, fifty-one students and students and five educational attendants from the Women's Castle Kilkis, as well as from Dravesko and Paleokoli Serres. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr. Peter Constantine has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come for the completion of a lasting demand for the last few years of the crisis. Apart from the employees and the pensioners, you have been hit by the crisis is the business of the country. The evacuation of private debt due to over-leasing and, at the same time, to the economic recession caused by past governments' tactics requires sustainable solutions to be found. The proposed arrangements of the extrajudicial mechanism and the institutional framework for the concept of regulation of business debts by the public, the banks and the other major creditors are the first - yes, gentlemen of the Officerial Response - organised effort in the years of the crisis. You've done nothing for these groups for so long when you've ruled. With this effort we statemen, who are chasing entrepreneurialism - so you formulate where you stand, to all television receivers - give the companies the opportunity to breathe, offering many benefits for the economy and society itself. Ladies and gentlemen, with this legislative initiative, the debtor will be given the opportunity to propose to his creditors an integrated proposal, starting with his current ability to repay. Faced with the problem of highly indebted enterprises will give a significant boost to the national economy by strengthening healthy competition and not the competition that you wanted. Over four hundred thousands of businesses will be able to join this mechanism and enter a series. A free professional speaks to you, and I can assure you firsthand of the end of the business at the moment. Relief will give them vitality, as the drastic reduction in insurance contributions to 85% of the free professions. It will be another unsuccessful task of Officer Responsibility for her absence from this legislative initiative. It's about the world you've been invoking for so long and you're constantly falling into lubes. No script comes out of you. Soon, the blue one here becomes a picturesque Shoeble crust! You're hiding behind the pollsters. Every month they baptize you first party and I will remind you that previous polls said so and another came out. Because Mr Denkias said here that it will not be much of a presidency of the Minister and of the government, that is what the people decide and not Mr Denkias. At least the people have decided to be us at this stage. Really, I haven't seen any polls baptizing you, though, self-powered, because it can displease the PASOK. You're partners. But you've been taken care of and the marbles of this House. Instead of constantly asking for elections, do you have a solution to the real problems of the economy? We circulate in our regions - regardless of whether you say we are not around - and you know what they're asking us for? Clearance from the rotten political system which has brought us to this point and solutions to the problems of the citizens. Do you know from the blocks to four walls, do you want the health examination? You say 'yes'. Then why do you go out and react all the time? For what periods do you respond for the examinations? Your government has not brought in a single examination when the people were asking for it. Not even one! And we're bringing in an examination every month.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u254	And then you close them without result!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u255	And because, Mr. Fotella, you came to Messinia as well and saw that the organic positions were doubled by doctors and nurses, when the examination comes, we will see everything here and the Greek citizen will know because we have reached this point. And that's the profit from every examination. And because we're talking about another bill, you first house your party, your store, which owes 210 million, and when you house your shop, as you did, you will be able to house Greece and the economy of Greece. You cannot ask to house Greece when you cannot house your shop. Hello and joy to you, Mr. Lightla. I'll see you at the exam. Be well! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u256	Mr. Ioannis Karagiannis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill for the first time introduces an organized out-of-court procedure for the regulation of Greek companies' debts into the Greek legal system. With the focus of the debtor and without fear of the anti-fraud measures being suspended, all debts to banks, taxes, insurance funds, OTAs, suppliers and other private individuals are regulated at the same time. The aim of this framework is to save healthy businesses, to ensure thousands of jobs, to reorganise bank portfolios and to secure the revenues of the public and insurance funds. The main innovations in the new extrajudicial mechanism focus on its wide scope, transparency in the process, flexibility in the public as a creditor, protection of small creditors, the use of the Register of Ombudsmen and the use of technology. The mechanism allows the company to negotiate only one procedure with all its creditors, and the electronic way of reducing its administrative costs and its creditors. At the same time, there are safety barriers to detecting malpractices with the relative lifting of bank and tax secrets. A positive record also shows the operation of the hundred and twenty Loan Information and Support Offices, to which the highly indebted companies, which amount to about four hundred thousand, can be addressed, and most of them are small, which were and constitute the backbone of the Greek economy. From the above, ladies and gentlemen, we can see that all those conditions are created for a fair, rational and realistic repayment of debts, not necessarily created by bad practices, but by the recession and the rapid fall of 25 percentage points of GDP in recent years. Let me remind you here from a study by the CEE that between 2008 and 2014, twenty-nine thousand small and medium-sized enterprises have disappeared from the business map and about seven hundred thousand jobs have been lost. The largest losses were recorded in the manufacturing, wholesale and retail sectors. The first recorded eighty-two thousand businesses, two hundred-five thousand jobs and 2.5 billion euros of added value. The trade sector lost sixty-one thousand businesses, two hundred and six thousand jobs and EUR 9.6 billion of value added. In 2014, the number of small and medium-sized enterprises was reduced by 26.6% compared to 2008, causing an increase in value added by 40.2% and a decrease in employment by 29.3%. Let me also mention that red loans to the banks amount to EUR 107.8 billion, according to the Bank of Greece's Governor's report, while all dues to the tax and insurance funds exceed EUR 120 billion. This means speeding up initiatives to manage private debt more effectively, without additional bureaucracy, complex mechanisms and exclusions. It is precisely this need, as is rightly expressed by GATT, to cover this bill. The off-court settlement mechanism is not a fragmentary and individual regulation, but along with Law 4441/2016, which deals with simplification of business creation procedures, Law 4446 on electronic transactions and Law 4442/2016 on simplification of business authorisation procedures, effectively expresses the Government's support for small and medium-sized business. We should not yet forget the possibilities offered through the ESRB programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as the new European and national financial instruments that are coming to support critically small and medium-sized enterprises, such as the Entrepreneurship Fund, HORIZON, IASIS, COSME. I would even mention the new development law that is oriented primarily by small and medium-sized enterprises. This draft law comes to stand for the first steps in the recovery of the Greek economy, as these are reflected in the relevant indicators and respond to the catastrophe of Antipoliticism for the current state of the economy. In conclusion, I should like to refer to two important points in this bill. The first concerns the second opportunity given to closed companies, provided that they are judged viable and of interest in reopening, as well as the free professionals who can join insurance funds and tax. Minister, I would also ask you to take a positive view of the content of Mr Karras' amendment, which I support, as well as of the cases of the livestock loans granted with the guarantee of the Greek State, as well as of those in a Swiss franc. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr. Karagiannis. Mr Jason Fotillas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u259	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to say to Mr Constantine - he has, of course, come out of the Chamber, but he can hear me from the outside - and remind you that you have come to power with the slogan 'all in the light'. So when you say 'not inquiring for 1996', which Mr Kourublis Secretary-General happens to have been, when you say 'not inquiring at the time when we are in power', which the regular interrogator again happens to have found felony acts and there are defendants, then we are not talking about everything in the light, we are talking about almost everything or, anyway, what suits us to light! From there on, I would remind Mr Constantine, who says that we are not doing any examinations, and they do one month a month, how do they end the examinations they are doing? Should I remind you of the German debt test? Mrs. Konstantopoulou has gone. May I remind you of the examination of the complex and the media, where you took out that there is no responsibility from any political persons? The treasure's carbon! In any case, let me tell Mr Constantine that I am a amateur in the theater to the public’s refreshment. You play theatre on the back of the Greek people. Carbons, then, the treasure! That's the conclusion of studying this bill. And I would like to explain that small and medium-sized enterprises are waiting to recover after the dramatic delay in the negotiation, which has brought about a dramatic increase in the dues and the execution of seizures. A thousand a day took place in February. Well done, comrades, for your accomplishment! And higher! Instead, the current draft law that the government brings, not only, cannot serve the chronic problems of Greek entrepreneurship, but also cannot be implemented effectively, since it creates new bureaucratic obstacles. First of all, this is not an out-of-court compromise. The compromise will be mainly judicial. We have also explained to you in detail the involvement that will be caused by justice, with the huge amount of work that you will bring to the courts. Even this automated process, which we agree as a New Democracy, must exist through an electronic platform, is not yet ready and it is likely that it will take up to 12 months to prepare the electronic system. Until then, written applications will be submitted to regional units, i.e. red tape and suffering from entrepreneurs and professionals, who will have to gather dozens of documents, stand in endless tails and pass through many stages of advancement. Then, too, public debtors and coordinators must be synchronised. To get where? In the court, where the objections will be dealt with, the decision will be made. And all this without giving any incentive to compromise to the creditors. In addition, we have tabled a proposal for socially beneficial institutions and unions, with a prosperous nature, which are doing purely social and important work in Greece of crisis and do not engage in business. Why don't you include them, Minister, in the provisions of the bill so that they can obtain tax and insurance information so that they can make use of their property legally? Ladies and gentlemen, with the responsibility of the government, the opportunity for efficient management of red loans is lost, which is a precondition for the recovery of the market. The New Democracy has tabled a comprehensive proposal. It provides for a real out-of-court settlement, giving incentives to implement it and, in order to succeed, it must ensure the participation of the major creditors, without abuses of the procedure, which was also provided for in the Treasury. This draft law does not achieve it, as it does not provide for verification of the reliability of the evidence submitted by the debtor. In other words, 'closes the eye' to the poor payers at the expense of healthy entrepreneurs, professionals. Ladies and gentlemen, this government cannot guarantee the well-being of the Greek people. Even the surplus he has achieved is with zero growth over two consecutive years and has been based on exhaustive business and citizens' taxation. In fact, the government "SYRIZANEL" implements a plan for the impoverishment of the Greek people, adopting the most irreversible policy, in total contrast to what it promised in the election. But the news from France is positive and follow the ones from the Netherlands and Austria. This is because in France the forces of populism, isolationism and extreme right have been defeated in the first round by the forces of reason and European perspective. Greece is one of the last countries of the European Union to remain in power populists. But the oil in their canister is over! Of course it doesn't seem to us that SYRIZA has rushed to vote for the candidate of the populist Left, Mr. Melanson, the one holding equal distances for the second round from Macron and Lepen, the right-wing candidate. Now that Mr. Tsipras has seen the deadlock, he has rushed to turn it around and back up for Macron. Really, who are the candidates for the second round in France? But the truth was told by the ERT, who only didn't cry Sunday evening for Mrs Lepenn's defeat. I replicate what its journalists have said, without shame, on an extraordinary broadcast on the subject: 'Mr. McCron has nothing. He can't rule. Instead, Marie Lepenn is not the great, the terrible danger to democracy. She managed to mutate her party and make it a mainstream party." ERT, news newsletter, 23-4-2017. So that's the way it is? It is not far-right and it does not show hatred for Europe and the refugees, but it is a mainstream party. What else are we going to hear from the government's phones, I wonder. I will say a few words - and I will close - for the Prime Minister's recent hypocrisy recital, which unregulatedly stated that his government has not imposed a new tax and that the world is well-being, since there has been a mass exit in Easter! In his last interview, therefore, he said that the measures would be voted on, but only if the debt adjustment measures are implemented. 'But' was asked by the journalist 'how will you not apply them, after you vote?'. And he replied that one sovereign state has the right to retire adopted measures if the agreement is not respected on the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u260	He's got it. Doesn't he have it? Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u261	From this point on, Mr Colleague, we understand that the law that comes in this House and which contains the unfavourable measures should clearly and unequivocally provide that the implementation of the measures will only be possible if the debt regulation measures are implemented. In fact, it should indicate and what specific debt relief measures are to be implemented to implement the unfavourable measures. Otherwise, there's no deal. What hair are these? Is there really anyone in this room who thinks that what I've described now can happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u262	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u263	I shall conclude, Mr President. Anyway, who are you mocking at? Us, your MPs or the Greek people? Well, I'm telling you, we won't forget anything about the downhill to which you led the country. Fortunately, we will soon take over the fates of the country and open up a new era of relocation and preparation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u264	You're gonna say that for many more years. And last year you said the same thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u265	Mr Athanasios Bouras has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are discussing is below the expectations that SYRIZA - ANEL Government has systematically produced and has lured many companies to postpone their application to the Law Treasury, creating fruitfruits that, after the famous 2015 negotiation and the Capital Controls, prevented companies from applying. We have explained in detail and with arguments, both in committee and today, why the New Democracy criticises this draft law, and we have described in a clear and detailed way the positions of the New Democracy, posted on the party's site, to deal with this large issue of red loans and the extra-judicial compromise, which will help businesses and give breath to the real economy and growth. Minister, today with this draft law you are ashing the eyes of the business world, sharing false, but also impracticable hopes, as has been explained in detail. You are talking about an out-of-court settlement, but it is not, because it must be ratified by the courts. I've been very fond of a headline for an economic newspaper these days, who says? "Out-of-the-court compromise in court": This is the law that you are introducing today. Instead of providing for a formal validation, refer again to the first instances. That's how you make the law inapplicable. We agree with the electronic platform, but she is not ready and Lord knows when it will be and we have no reason, frankly, to trust your promise. We can't do it, because you promise a lot and in the end you don't keep them. By then, the interested parties will submit a series of documents and the lines of the interested parties will be endless. While awaiting a solution that will be resolutely confronted with the problem of giving a great breath to the economy, what is the government doing today? He claims to bring an extrajudicial compromise, but which - I said before - is neither out-of-court nor compromise. Why am I saying that? For simply subjecting the mechanism will require almost inevitably a judicial decision in order to ratify the compromise between debtors and creditors. In other words, the government's solution to speed up the procedures for the settlement of debts in a way that does not impose any further burden on the judiciary is to propose a timely judicial ratification procedure. And all this at a time when it is still pending - it has been said by too many - to judge more than a hundred and fifty thousand cases of the Katseli Act - we have said so and we will say so again to hear it - and indeed they have been put on trial for 2032. The hostage for all, that is, both for the market and for the banks and for all and for the economy, especially. And as if the procedure were not already too heavy, it is necessary - I say again - to hear - twenty-five documents, certificates and attestations only for the submission of the application for membership of the mechanism. Finally, there is no incentive or ratification for banks to speed up procedures so that companies can make a new start quickly so that they can give a significant boost to the economy. We disagree, Minister - and we have said so in committee - with the non-separation of small and large enterprises. We support fast and automatic out-of-court compromise for small businesses, directly applicable. Only if a creditor disagrees, then there's a third cut. We need a special short-term procedure for large businesses, with rapid judicial ratification. The draft law contains provisions with obvious political purposes, opening the ferry to anyone with bankruptcy to regulate their individual lending, as well as closing the eye on public debtors, leaving a window of corruption to the settlement of debts. Finally, Minister, you are bringing in a mechanism that neither small businesses serves nor facilitates the greats to save and save thousands of jobs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'll be done. We believe, of course, that, following our speeches and not just us, but all the parties in the Opposition, but I would also say to colleagues from the Plenary Assembly, the issue of thousands of companies who have been forced to cease operation is regulated and indeed, once they have started work, they will be able to make use of the law. I won't say anything else because the bell's ringing. My colleague, Mr. Fotillas, told them. See the subject of public institutions. Minister, I would like to stress again that there is also the question of free professionals - for example accountants and engineers - who too have to join. They have been told in detail and with arguments in committee all the bodies that were invited. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, I say this: we believe in the extrajudicial compromise, which will take account of the real facts, which will be aimed at ensuring development. This draft law is a legal brake on the real economy. Truly, about the arrangement that the Ministry of Justice is going to bring, every time you tell us for fifteen days! You said several days ago 'five days ago'. And today you say that after 15 days, the regulation will come to the protection of bank officials. Why do these fifteen days, when they are needed at the most, are there some of the top lawyers from your area here - 15 hours from some lawyers to draw up a regulation and bring it in? Once again, Minister, for such a big and serious problem you have wasted valuable time and disappoint the market, which expected a realistic, innovative and practicable regulation. Instead, we will soon see that this legislation will also be inapplicable in practice, which will be important for the economy, and it will offer nothing. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Athanasios Bourras, presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u267	Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis now has the floor from SYRIZA. Parliamentary spokesman of the Union of Centres, Mr Saridis, has then asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, by listening just now to Mr Fotella speaking and commenting on the results of the French elections, I wondered whether he remembers the times of the PASOK, the river. It should be understood that Mr Fottilas is in New Democracy, whose top-ranking official has a 'father' of Ms Lepen, the genuine, the 'originate' extreme right. Remember where you are, Mr. Lightla. We'll excuse you. We forgive you. It's the adjustment period. Now we are discussing the draft law. This is a draft law - a stage in the country's effort to rebuild and relaunch its real economy, give a second chance to the people of production and healthy entrepreneurship, who are not strategic mispaid, but have simply disobeyed and failed because of the effects of the economic crisis. This bill will be a market lifesaving, since it will in fact enable sustainable businesses to regulate global debts, both to the private sector and to the public sector, with the aim of giving as many companies as possible an opportunity to continue operating on new bases while ensuring thousands of jobs. These words are not mine. They belong to a government official in defense of the draft law. They belong to the President of the National Trade and Entrepreneurship Confederation, Mr. Vassilis Corkides, and I think they constitute an excellent summary of the Ministry of Economy and Development's initiative. It is true that companies have been subjected to great sacrifices during the crisis, which have led them to a dead end. Entrepreneurs all over the next few decades, found themselves in debt after 2010 and many times to lead their businesses to bankruptcy. The political system must now give answers. If the New Democracy colleagues consider that the only way out of the crisis is by lending from the institutions and a passive attitude in general, without the necessary subsidiary action on the part of the Greek Governments, they are mistaken. Of course, compliance with the programme is a necessary treaty, but the country must take steps forward, adopting a more aggressive strategy to attract investment and correct the consequences of the multiannual budgetary production effort, which has even been barren for many years with fictitious surpluses and without the slightest social sign. It is a impression that we who are repeatedly accused of being imprisoned, are bringing this draft law to a vote on the stimulus of private initiative. You answer us from Officer Opposition, who are liberal, because you insist that healthy businessmen stay with the back of the wall. You obviously think that you have made your debt to the ideal of the free economy with mass redundancies in the public sector. Let the state be absent, but will there be productive tissue underneath? What do you do for him all these years? A law to which three companies were subjected in a photographic way, one could say. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law also enables the most indebted enterprises under specific conditions to join. It also provides for the possibility for the debtor to adjust its debts in up to a hundred and twenty monthly instalments, in other words, over a ten-year period, with a minimum payment of EUR 50 monthly. It includes all creditors such as banks, TAs, taxes, insurance funds and private suppliers, but, at the same time, it also protects the requirements of small creditors by providing the so-called ‘strategic malpractices’ and guaranteeing the initiation of the procedure, even if it is of interest only 50% of the company’s creditors. The debtors shall be protected accordingly by a clear time-limit for suspending the suspension from humanitarian measures against them, the definition of clear follow-up schedules and the implementation of the suspension by a special information system. It is extremely important that the procedure be described, as, in addition to the economic sign, there is, first of all, that of justice and the moral legitimacy of the results of the compromise. This draft law is expected to enable all businesses to join regardless of their size, including individuals, with debts of more than EUR 20,000. I particularly emphasise the scope, as in the past, we had legislative initiatives, such as that of Mr Teddy when he was Minister, which, unfortunately, went through and did not touch any business, were done to do, they did not give any breath, they only served to write celebrity press releases on the day the law was passed. The follow-up was neither interested nor interested in any of the competent and effective colleagues in the New Democracy. This is exactly what is at stake in the active implementation of the programme. The laws must be implemented, to serve the needs of the people, and in this direction their implementation is monitored and assessed. Let us see what will render the draft law of today's 'immatures and amateurs' and we will be here to assess it. Moreover, as the New Democracy Development Sector said in its recent interview, a law is not judged by its intentions but by its results. I imagine they were not seeds for the results of the New Democracy law. The out-of-court settlement mechanism is the head of the current government's efforts to get the country out of the crisis. The creation of a favourable investment environment is a prerequisite for the arrival of growth and the end of the days of the harsh fiscal adjustment. I call on you to leave the micro-participation and the cheap arguments, such as the first one that we do not vote because the bill has been late and to support this draft law as an objectively positive initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u269	Mr Saridis has the floor. Five speakers will follow on the list and then the Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, will speak. Here, Mr Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with today's draft law, the government is attempting to satisfy the established and undeniable social need for a legislative solution to the crucial issue of the indebted Greek businesses. Unfortunately, however, even on this important issue that has the dynamics to judge the path of economic recovery, the effort to save small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in Greece, but also, to a large extent, the maintenance of social cohesion, once again, the Greeks should try to distinguish the truth between the poor with the reality of rhetoric and the government and the Anti-Population Officer. The draft law to be passed was characterised by everyone long-awaited. There, however, any consensus has also been exhausted. We have not yet succeeded in giving clear answers to very basic points of this bill. Who is this bill finally about, as it is formulated? How many of those who anticipated it will succeed in making use of its favorable provisions? Is it a solution to the problem? The Minister himself admitted, in reply to a question I raised and other colleagues during the discussions in the committee responsible, that we cannot know how many and what companies they will eventually be subject to the Papadimitri law. It's a defeat admission. That's how I interpret this statement as an admission of failure. The fact that the Law has finally remained on the papers, along with the fact that today the dates of trial are set for 2032 of fifty-five thousand outstanding Katseli cases, give us an idea of what we have to wait for in the tragic case where the legitimate concerns of those who believe are confirmed are being confirmed, that the bill leaves great and unjustified margins for the presentation of abuses. This time, however, there are some serious - mainly chronic - restrictions which we must take into account. At the beginning of 2018, for example, some very hard stress tests are scheduled for Greek banks and if we do not stop the creation of new'red loans' and the establishment of the extrajudicial dispute settlement mechanism fails, then we may have to discuss a fourth recapitalisation. Our rapporteur, Mr Georgiadis, has said so to you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already lost valuable time, at a time when literally the time is money and given that the proposed law gives room for utilization of its provisions by the end of 2018, it is understandable that the Greek Government has too little room to act, without even having the luxury of falling out of its schedules. If, for example, the electronic platform is not working on time, the consequences will be unforeseen. We have said so in committee too. There will be a problem if the electronic platform is not put into operation. The successful implementation of the bill under discussion will also be judged whether the application process will be initiated at the same time as the operation of the platform. And with regard to what is required by the law, there is too much evidence and could be drastically reduced if this platform could make use of the information already available to the public services. If the online platform does not work, the proposal of the Centro Association is with the application for the law, the application should be accepted and the proceedings initiated and with a responsible statement by the debtor that he will produce the documents, that he will not lose time, take the number he needs and move on to resolve his problems. We must not wait, Minister, if and when the electronic platform is delayed. Accept the simple application and put it to the law. We need careful planning and coordination of all the parties involved, so that we can have tangible results. It is difficult to achieve this, however, when we do not clarify the criteria, according to which an enterprise is considered viable or when we exclude the companies that have regulated their debts by 1 July 2016. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we cannot answer the simple question: 'Who ultimately is concerned with today's bill, is also the main reason why we in the Central Association cannot support it. The Government is literally legislating on blind drivers and creditors of the country, making it possible to create impressions, to cultivate expectations, taking advantage of the hopes and fears of the small and medium-sized enterprises, the overwhelming majority of the Greek families. The unanswered questions are many and this is proof of the distance between what we legislate in this Chamber and the Greek reality. The Minister, speaking of this bill, spoke of a useful and innovative tool, without being able to respond, but who exactly will be useful and who will benefit. They wonder how the Greek citizens, who know it follows where the immunity of bank officials and representatives of the government is, should begin to be taken out of loans. What loans will be taken off? Who will be sold to the foreign funds? Whose business will be saved? No one today knows how to answer the Greeks, but certainly not the Greek Government. It's a lot of unanswered questions and they all put them to you from all sides. The most characteristic question of all, what I considered to be the magnitude of the agony of the thousands of borrowers who hoped and waited for a solution to be given and how they would take a breath from today's legislation but were disappointed, was addressed to you by the President of the Union of Borrowers of Northern Greece, Mr Pervanas, who repeated it in his letter, which I will table in the Minutes for all my fellow Members and those who did not give it to them, first reading in my turn three paragraphs, which I would very much like to hear in this Chamber and to record. It's a statement of anxiety and anger. Within his letter, the Lending and Consumer Protection Association of Northern Greece says: "It has been established too many times and has been reported by our club to the competent European Commission bodies, that the banks during the operation of the credits were violating national and Community legislation. The illegality of banks during the operation of credits run counter to the principle of transparency, as established by the Community legislature and the Community Directives 93/13/EEC and 2008/48/EC. These assumptions need to be taken into account in particular with regard to the draft law on the ‘Examination Mechanism for Business Debts’. The draft law does not provide for any provision to be made for the protection of borrowers, the bank's ongoing practice to impose unlawful charges and abusive charges, as described above. These unlawful charges have a catalytic effect on the actual amount of the debt to be settled under the extrajudicial mechanism and the debtor is required to negotiate a debt greater than the actual debt due. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Saridis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The questions which arise are as follows. Should the legislator or not take care to impose such rules on the extrajudicial procedure, which obliges banks to clear the debt of money and misuse? Should I? Should the legislature or not take care to allow the debtor to enter the arrangement, question the amount of the alleged debt to the creditor and submit a statement of objections and economic study of the liquidated debt to the expert who assesses the debtor's claims? So I ask again after that. In what ways does this law protect borrowers from the bank's illegal and abusive charges? This question at the moment in this Chamber is unanswered. I hope that it will be answered by the end of the sitting. Our objections, therefore, in principle stem mainly from relentless, unanswered questions, but also from being exhausted there. In simple terms, in addition to what I have just said, the solution to the out-of-court regulation of loans should be that of an electronic mechanism in all respects, to which the debtor would put his request up with the relevant proposal. The same right, however, to have the creditor concerned, i.e. to put the claim on the debtor, inviting him to respond and at the same time to invite the debtor and any other creditors to the arrangement. The evidence provided should be drawn from the databases available to the public services and banks, while, for the missing, I have said before in my proposal to the Minister, but for the missing, a declaration should be made at first instance by the creditor and once the extrajudicial arrangements have been completed within a reasonable time, set by the legislator, to produce a debtor, to define quality criteria such as the maintenance of jobs. To establish a minimum amount of remuneration for experts drawing up a sustainability plan. The remuneration shall be divided half by the debtor and half by the creditor. To have the right to appoint his own coordinator, not to be allegedly designated and to be seen in view of the banks and to have the debtor exposed to them. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important bill. The country needs it. Small and medium-sized enterprises need it. It should have been this bill here otherwise if we respect those people who have been through what has been going on for seven years and are not responsible for what they are going through. All those in charge are those in government and those in government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr. Saridis. Mr. George Papaliou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u272	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current bill was, as has been said, much anticipated and comes to give a second chance and hope to the business world, because it aims to tackle the explosive problem of red business loans. Their evacuation to levels that make it a key and absolutely crucial problem for the Greek society, as well as a burden for the economic recovery of the country, is not only the result of the unprecedented in-depth crisis, but also significant imperfections to the current institutional framework. To date, the resolution process under Articles 99 et seq. of the Banking Code has been the only instrument for regulating business debt. This process, although improved by the provisions of Law 4446/2016, does not, in particular, concern large public limited companies with numerous creditors and significant debts. The previous legislative framework under L.4307 failed to implement it. Apart from not introducing obligations for credit institutions, it left out of its scope of regulation the debts of companies to the Greek State. It merely stated that the company’s debts to the Greek State should have been previously incorporated into the then available payment schemes in numerous instalments. The problem now has taken unusually large proportions, demanding immediate action, before its size consolidates a situation with negative effects and causes the economic and social damage. It is precisely these problems that seek to resolve this draft law which provides for, and defines, the out-of-court settlement procedure from the point of view of submitting the application of the company of natural or legal persons engaged in business, until the judicial ratification of the agreement is not compulsory but optional. It therefore establishes an out-of-court settlement mechanism for companies, which, on the one hand, removes the obstacles which have so far made it difficult to achieve a comprehensive regulation of the debts of the highly indebted, non-viable undertakings and, on the other, creates those positive conditions which will give relief to the businesses, thereby allowing them to be taken away from the range of bankruptcy, allowing their uninterrupted business. Key points - innovations in the new extrajudicial mechanism are, for the first time, the possibility for small, medium-sized and large enterprises, as well as individual companies, to regulate their debts as a whole and at the same time to all creditors, the public and private sectors, namely taxes, social security institutions, banks and suppliers, and to reach an agreement with all, based on the real possibilities of repayment of the company's debts. The debt settlement will no longer be based on elements such as the size of the company and the amount of debt, but on the actual ability to repay the company's debts. The settlement of debts will be based only on the actual elements of the viability of the company, but also on the element of the non-enhancement of the position of all parties. Criteria to be met by an undertaking are introduced in order to join the regulation mechanism. The criteria set out are such that every viable business can be integrated into the mechanism regardless of size, while all debts in total over EUR 20,000 that were born up to 31-12-2016 can be regulated through the mechanism. It is obvious that the integration of all enterprises without distinction would slow down the pace of handling cases with a negative impact on the viable enterprises that need the mechanism in order to continue operating them. I would, however, say, Minister, that this amount could be lower in order to be included in the mechanism and indebted enterprises which, because of a crisis, are obliged, but are viable and able to recover. In addition, the draft law deals with the poor payers, excluding in advance all the undertakings whose entities or administrators have been irrevocably sentenced for economic crimes, and also protect small creditors since their claims are not affected by the restructuring contract. It is intended to involve both public and social security institutions as creditors, under the same conditions as private creditors. This makes it possible to regulate the debts to public and social security institutions, not rigid as the legislation so far provided for, but adapted to the viability of the company. It is also foreseen that an undertaking may be included in the mechanism only if, in at least one use over the last three years, it has shown positive net results before tax, interest and amortisation. This restriction, and in particular the condition of the positive net result before taxes, interest and depreciation in at least one use over the last three years, needs, I think, a special attention, Minister, and perhaps a differentiated approach, given the crisis that has been stirring up the economy for many years, from 2009, 2010 onwards. Finally, freelance professionals are provided for the possibility of adjusting their debts to public and insurance funds. At the heart of the new mechanism, ladies and gentlemen, there has been the bourgeois business, the small and medium-sized businessman who has suffered the consequences of the crisis over recent years. He is the one who starts the process and finally approves the restructuring plan through an organised and coordinated, in a specific context, negotiation process with creditors. In this context, the debtor is able to obtain a reduction in interest rates, an extension of a repayment period, up to a write-off of debts. The aim is to save businesses with healthy characteristics so that they continue to operate from a better basis, to secure jobs and at the same time to relieve both public and insurance incomes and banking portfolios. Ladies and gentlemen, the benefits of creating and operating such a mechanism are much wider for the economy. In other words, the fact that companies will be able to regulate their debts and therefore make use of all available financial instruments, but also to promote investments, which under different circumstances are not in a position to promote, is important for the whole economy, to increase the volume of investment and to maintain and create jobs. The bill creates those positive conditions not only for the regulation of the debts of viable enterprises, but for the strengthening of liquidity, the stimulation of investments and the development of the Greek economy in general. And this bill, ladies and gentlemen, like other previous laws already made by the state, is part of the government's planning of the country's social equitable productive reconstruction with a peak of small and medium-sized enterprises. And one last thing. You, gentlemen of the Opposition, are insisting on holding elections now. You will wait until the government, the government of SYRIZA, complete its work and get the country out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u273	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that the Special Standing Committee on Parliamentary Ethics is tabling its reports on the request of the Prosecutor for the granting of the authorisation of criminal prosecution against MPs. The next speaker is Mrs Fotini Arabazis. Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u274	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only begin my speech by commenting a little on what we incredibly heard last night from the Prime Minister's mouth. So much lies, so much arrogance and so much cynicism could fit into less than an hour of interview. Of course, where the Prime Minister exceeded himself, it was when he said that he did not close the assessment, because he expected the surplus to come out, because otherwise the International Monetary Fund asked him for measures forty-fold more than today, namely EUR 151 billion, which caused anger and a multitude of comments and became even hashtag on twitter, entitled "forty-two times". Outside time and time, unfortunately, the Prime Minister, like out and time and this much-advertised and long-awaited bill on the extrajudicial compromise, which comes into this virtual reality that we heard last night and in a sadly gray - not to say black - economic environment. In a black economic environment where the endless, continued delay in the closure of the ratings sinks every day the real economy, strangles the business, eliminates the free professionals. And, of course, the evaluation still does not close, despite the bloody surplus of 3.9%, to remember old, beloved phrases by the Prime Minister when you were in opposition. Two years now you have been discussing and announcing the regulation of red loans and coming two years after unbelievable sloppyness and destroying the ordinary parliamentary procedure and we hear your rapporteur announcing regulations and legislative improvements that are in vain trying to find in the text of the bill. Settings, of course, material and capital that judge the effectiveness of the draft law, which is no more than the rescue of the highly indebted enterprises. We ask you, then, directly, Mr Minister: yes or no, in this bill of extrajudicial compromise, the over three hundred and thousands of free traders, lawyers, doctors, engineers, farmers and farmers for their debts in public and insurance funds which, of course, you, with the tax bleeding you have kept them and, of course, with the infamous insurance of Katrugalos, which is a second tax office, have set off. These people, the free professionals, and not being, Minister, became red and they find themselves in the middle of the day, because the figures are unfortunately characteristic and relentless, when the proportion of the red loans of the free professionals exceeds 67% according to figures from the Bank of Greece, when 80% of the engineers are uninsured, when hundred and fifty-five thousand applications of Katseli law are still pending, when Greek farmers and farmers are waiting to settle their red loans and their livestock debts that have already been sent to the Treasury. Farmers and farmers, Minister, who are giving a huge deal of survival so that they can stand up to their farms already on auctions, having, of course, to fight the escalation of production costs, the unreasonable insurance and tax obligations you have reserved them, but, of course, the write-down of their capital from serious diseases - Mr Peveretus said so at the hearing of operators - such as blue fever and lumpy skin disease, many of which, Minister, still today, a long time after the disease has not yet been compensated. As far as the so-called legislative improvements are concerned, I am afraid - in a magical picture, which you are presenting on the one hand, and on the other, you are destroying them, such as the one to simplify the process of judicial ratification, the cases of restructuring without objections from the multi-members in the mono-member courts. A regulation which you announced at the last meeting of the committee, but which today as magically disappeared, after you told us from the Step forward that Article 12 remains as it stands. You have thus, unfortunately, confirmed our claim that the attempt to compromise out of court is only euphemism, since at the end the whole process ends with the courts, without anyone being able to know, the huge number of cases that will be accumulated in the already overloaded Greek justice. You have also baptized legislation and, as you say, the extrajudicial compromise between companies which have ceased their activities, since, as you say, they have made a statement of reopening. Yes, sir. That's right. I would ask, however, and that is why I say that you have been baptized: What was the difference in this resumption of work from the term'revival', Minister, which you had in Article 2? In fact, can you finally tell us whether this regulation includes, as we have repeatedly requested, the companies that closed down during the crisis because of the unfavourable economic environment? And much more can you give us a convincing excuse for the unprecedented injustice you have with those with blood, labor and titanic efforts have adjusted their debts before 1 July 2016 and are excluded from this bill? Cicitals of carelessness, of course, and lack of the necessary electronic platform. Two years you have been advertising the legislation, which now faints, and as a gonatogram comes and the absolutely necessary platform is not ready. It is not at all original for your Government, of course, because I will say that the same applies to development law, which so long after its electronic platform has not been ready and accepted by the written declarations, but above all for the entire rural development programme, the so-called 'farm ESDP', Minister, whose electronic platform is not ready for two years after the start of the programme, the evaluation of thousands of applications, such as young farmers, remains at the moment. When, of course, the platform for the illegal plan will be completed, no one can know and trust, despite your announcements. One understands the burden that will be accumulated in the regional units that will receive the applications. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end in a minute, Mr President, with your tolerance. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the year, unfortunately, ninety businesses have been closing down every day. Since January, loans totalling EUR 1.5 billion have been redundant, 80% of which were set and became red. In December 2016, three billion euros of deposits were made wings, and you bring a draft law by making a hole in the water, because neither is binding on the parties involved nor specifically encourages creditors to engage in this process nor, above all, protects the debtors who have the good intention. Against this reality, the Prime Minister is unreservedly claiming that there are no longer annoyed in the streets, apparently forgetting that many of the outraged people's courts are now in the parliamentary or ministerial headquarters. The Prime Minister believes that because there are no social mobilisations, there is tolerance to his government. It will soon see that the most brutal and intense social wrath is the rage of the citizens, the rage of the citizens expressing outrage at the polls. Until then, you will measure how great the excursion of the weekends and the three days and your ministers will bring legislation like this, selling seaweeds for silk ribbons to the indebted, unfortunately, Greek society.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u275	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theatres, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty-seven students and students and two educational attendants from the 6th Stavroupolis of Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Theodoros Fortsakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u276	Thank you very much, Mr President. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the curiosity with which the government is dealing with issues of vital importance to the economy and, more generally, to our country is also evident in the bill we are debating today. I am referring, of course, to the contents of the bill, which in no way corresponds to the expectations of entrepreneurs who have red loans and dues and see their businesses collapse. Red loans have been raised by 1.5 billion euros lately. I am also referring to the procedure that is being followed today in this House, because we have again had a series of oral statements of substantial changes to the legislation, for which the House of Members has never really received any knowledge. Unfortunately, the degradation of this House continues. The bill deals with an extremely important issue, the issue of debts and the reduction of debtors' burdens on banks, public and insurance institutions. Unfortunately, instead of establishing an effective mechanism that will give a solution to the problem, it is limited to simply setting a framework for negotiations without compulsoryity. At the same time, as shown in the text you have shared with us, Minister, and which has been processed almost a month ago by the relevant Standing Committee on Production and Trade - that is, it has been a long time since improvements - the free professionals and other categories of professionals who have been affected by the economic crisis are out of control and are drowned by their accumulated debts to banks, public and private. This morning SYRIZA's rapporteur, Mr Jackri, spoke about adding free professionals to the regulation. But this was not taken into account by the Minister. Lack of understanding and irrationality throughout her majesty. The scope of the bill on the other hand is very wide. It is true that debts are part of an activity or other cause under Article 1, which may lead to misuse of the procedure for the regulation of private debt. The fact that the law allows companies with debts of more than EUR 20,000 to join the favourable provisions is certainly positive, since it allows micro-enterprises to regulate their debts. On the other hand, however, this small limit creates a huge volume of companies that probably wants to join, but which, because of the system's intimacy, will test the strengths of an entire banking system and of the public itself. It would also be advisable to provide for a simplified procedure for companies with the smallest debts, but not foreseen. The whole process is highly bureaucratic and laudable with endless stages, with a large number of required supporting documents which are foreseen to accompany the application. We have only to read Article 5. Product of handshake is also the tool in which applications for access to the procedure will be filed, i.e. the famous electronic platform referred to in Article 16. This platform is not ready, although the government had announced this bill for two years and had plenty of time to prepare it. The manuscript application that replaces it makes the whole process even more bureaucratic and complex. The electronic platform should be fully operational at the same time as the law will enter into force so that all supporting documents can be submitted electronically. The three-month deadline laid down by the law on the creation of the electronic system is not enough for such an operation. This opinion has also been expressed by the Greek Banking Union. The procedure for verifying the completeness of the application by the coordinator provided for in Article 7 is still not sufficient. In addition, an audit of the accuracy of the information mentioned in the application and the debtor is required. At this point the Minister made a commitment this morning that there would be an improvement in legislation on this subject. Even later the government realized that. I mean, it's not as important as the substance of the application. The appointment of the coordinators by the General Secretariat of Private Debt Management, by a Register of Coordinators maintained there, creates suspicions of opacity. The high number of supporting documents required here and here - I note that twenty-five documents are needed only to submit the application for a co-ordinator post - is a suspensory to the success of the mechanism. The condition that, in order to subject a company to the regulation, it should have at least one tax use of the last three before the application is submitted with positive net results before taxes, interest and depreciation - Article 3 requires it - seems to be out of place and time, since this, unfortunately, is scarce. It is assumed that there will be pressures on accountants and auditors of companies to overshadow the financial situation of companies to ensure that they are incorporated into the law. However, we will have a distortion of economic reality, and here clearly there is a risk that the poor payers will benefit and not the businessmen who are consistent and who respect healthy competition. It also gives rise to the fact that although the procedure provided for in the Act is extrajudicial, the courts are involved to a significant extent. In accordance with Article 12 of the Solvency Proceedings, arrears shall be validated in the region of which the debtor is based due to a workload of the courts. We also know from the experience of implementing the Katseli Act that the deadlines laid down are not to be complied with, and so judicial ratification will surely lead to thousands of cases being pending. This will also be a burden on the already huge amount of the cases in the courts. It will perpetuate the current situation of non-persistent loans, making their reduction impossible. It is also assumed that if the provision of immunity of bank officials and public officials involved in the negotiation is not passed, no one will take the risk of agreeing to a debt cut. Thus, the law will become inapplicable in practice, and the whole project will fail. Ms. Jackres spoke of a arrangement that will come in 15 days from the Justice Ministry and ensure the irresistibleness of those who sign the restructuring contract. We are still hearing words abstractly with the creation of expectations without substantial commitments. This regulation would have a substance if it had come together with the text we are considering today. In addition, whenever it is voted, it is doubtful whether the representatives of creditors will accept solutions that will be denied by the bodies representing substantial revenues. The whole effectiveness of the project is in the air. The burning issue of red loans needs a more global solution immediately, but also a deeper treatment than is currently being attempted by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. I note that the financial results of the mechanism under discussion cannot, in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, be accurately assessed in advance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u277	Mr. Fortsakis, please finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u278	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a second. Instead of having a serious proposal to solve a burning problem, we have a new bureaucratic mechanism which will burden things without giving any real solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr. Fortsakis. We shall give the floor, ladies and gentlemen, to Mr Kutsuko. He is on the list, he is in the last positions, but with the consent of the House and the Bureau, I would say that he is being proposed because he is facing a health problem, for which all of us wish him rapid recovery. So let us give him the floor, and then we give Mr. Athanasios, Mr. Godguard and Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Here you go, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr President, both your colleagues and your wishes for rapid recovery. Those of us who are involved in what we are dealing with must also be careful in our daily lives. That's a rule. Ladies and gentlemen, the position of Democratic Incorporation has been fully analysed for this bill both by our rapporteur, Mr Arvanitides, and by our Parliamentary representative Mr Loverdos and Mr Kegeroglou, who was before us, and perhaps it was by far my position on the more general issues, but within these general issues relating to the overlaps and the ones mentioned in this bill, there is also a specific issue concerning health businesses, which I shall be referring to, after I have first made a general position. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the entire business community, the market and business waited for this bill, because it is well known that the years of the crisis - and especially in recent years - have increased so-called red loans, have reached around 65 billion on the basis of the Bank of Greece's figures, while at the same time all companies are experiencing a tax raid. Although Mr Tsipras said the day before yesterday that only VAT increased by 1% in recent years, with the laws of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, VAT rose from 13% to 24%, the rates from 20% to 23%, from 23% to 26%, all consumption taxes have increased, nothing has been left without any overtaxation.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u281	What 23%?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u282	What did you say, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u283	What 23 % are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u284	Please don't interrupt. Keep going, Mr. Kutsuko.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u285	The income tax has increased. Who's paying him? At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we have had a lack of liquidity and the fatigue of businesses is seen by the fact that the delays to the public sector in Genares and Flevaris have spread near 2 billion. And as we go, at the end of the year they will have reached 100 billion. In parallel to the implementation of the budget, there seems to be a fatigue in the yield of indirect taxes and excise duties, which is precisely due to this overtaxation. Also, when we discussed the budget with evidence why growth in 2017 would not be 2.7%, as the government said, we were told that we were being destroyed. You see that all organisations now have landed in a growth that will at best be 1.5%. I am saying these, because in this gray environment the treatment of red business loans would be a serious effort to boost the relaunching of the economy, so that either the businesses that have withstand the crisis, by eating out of the ready, can overcome it and meet the needs of the time, or those who have stayed behind, without being able to respond, have a second chance. Does he give that bill that possibility? Our rapporteurs have explained that they do not. It does not give up, firstly, because it excludes a very large part of the businesses. The Minister may not be so well aware that enterprises in the traditional sectors, because they had a profit over the past decade, were able to withstand the first years of the crisis. In recent years they've been on their knees. There are no companies that make profit in one of the three years. That's a serious mistake. The proposal we have tabled with the amendment that we tabled in five years is a very realistic proposal. Also, the Minister is obviously not aware that the majority of small and very small enterprises, including the free traders, have debts, which are underneath the block of exceptions and are therefore not included in the process. The government's promise that they will be included in a process like the one we have known so far and that is always done only by legislation, i.e. regulation of public debt, does not enable them to join the mechanism on an equal footing with other undertakings. And we know very well how long the avenues of individual business affairs are going to be in peace. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, this is the issue concerning my own constituency of Elijah - in Elias, but also in other areas following the catastrophic fires in 2007 and the 2008 earthquake, the banks have forced businesses to collect their loans to the bank which has borrowed them under the favourable conditions decided at the time by the government to strengthen them in the fight against the catastrophe they have suffered. Consequently, the large majority, if not all companies in these areas, such as Elias, have their obligations in a single bank. These companies are excluded from the bill. We lead them to destruction. They have sent memorials to the chambers, they know that. Apparently, the Minister has other entrants for the sizes of the economy, not from a firefighting and earthquake-fighting area. But the reality is that this bill will not apply to these regions and to these businesses. The last one. Ladies and gentlemen, for micro-enterprises, the ones that will be forced to make use of the POs, the non-management of an account is a noose in the neck. Because they will not be able to serve the supplies of raw materials, their rent, the salaries of staff, and this will lead to the extra-judicial compromise procedure. That is why, as has been said, the proposals of the Democratic Association must be accepted if we want the bill to match the content of the title. Or we'll have the celebrations left, and the result will be zero in the clay. I shall conclude, Mr President, with Mr Demetriades' amendment. Look, I have heard in this Chamber and the Prime Minister and the government MPs mention the scandalous arrangements of the previous governments. I would like to inform you that the abstraction of scandalous arrangements is this particular amendment. Watch the wording. The wording is that it had not been communicated to interested parties. He's got time before. It's got retroactive power. The amendment seeks to wash someone out, someone with whom the government has come to an agreement. It is not intended to create a level playing field and create good relations with investors. So the government, which has been in the past with the regulation for the seventy-seven millionaire businessmen, whom it incorporated with the act of legislative content in the regulation for the hundreds, should be placed responsible. Otherwise, they will be accountable for a photographic process of washing out a businessman or a businessman. That is how I read it, apart from the others that the majority rapporteur told us. The Minister must therefore be quickly placed in this House, so that those who will be invited to vote can know. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u286	Thank you, Mr. Koutsuko. Mr Charalambos Athanasios has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u287	Mr President, this issue has been raised since noon and the government is not answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u288	I'm sorry, Mr. Loverdo. I didn't hear you. Talk to the microphone and to record what you want to say and to be heard better.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u289	I just wanted a little understanding with you. This issue Mr Koutsoukos raised has been raised since noon at 2 p.m. A competent State Secretary came here, left...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u290	There is also talk of this amendment to the other amendments tabled by Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u291	And the Minister's not answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u292	Look, as far as I am concerned during my presence in the Bureau, I have checked that as far as noon as you have said, interventions have been made to the Minister and to parliamentary representatives and groups, if you wish, to place them on the parliamentary amendments, on which they will be accepted or not. I think it has already been informed by the government that it will, in any case, launch its position. I would also like to ask the President-in-Office if he is ready to put himself on the amendments, which he will accept and which he will not. Well, let's give Mr. Athanasios the floor. The Minister is here. Do you want to say something now, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u293	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u294	All right, we'll give Mr. Athanasios the floor then. Come on, Mr. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u295	Thank you, Mr President. We hope, Mr Loverdos, that Mr Dimitriadis' amendment will not be accepted. On the contrary, Mr Carras' amendment should be accepted, as I will explain. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to address you today with a sterile opposition. I should also like to emphasise this from the outset. But I will ask two questions. The first question. Does the Greek economy today need a bill covering the matter that is attempting to cover this bill? The answer is: 'Yes, of course it does.' And this is coming too late because of the government's improper work. The second question, however, can the specific bill on which we are called upon to discuss, solve the problems that it is aspiring to solve? The answer is: "Not at all." That is why we are voting against. Minister, the out-of-court settlement mechanism you bring with the bill is the exact opposite of what the Greek economy needs and companies want. It will fail, Minister, for the following basic reasons, which I was given the opportunity to develop during the debate in committee. Firstly, there is no strategic targeting. Second, the mechanism is bureaucratic. And thirdly, it has no flexibility. I shall briefly explain what I mean by referring only to some of the main problems of the bill, as, unfortunately, there is too much. Why does the draft law have no strategic targeting? It is clear that the private debt issue needs a comprehensive and strategic approach that embraces all layers of society, all professional groups, taking into account their specificities. You are two and a half years in the government now and all we've seen from you are patches in the law of Katseli and opening the Greek market to aggressive funds that buy red loans against a lentil plate. No indication of strategy to address the issue. Totally rough, fragmented and outside a strategic framework is the initiative for the extrajudicial compromise. What better evidence than the issue of free professionals. Although they have similar needs, many, with businesses, cannot resort to the extrajudicial compromise. They are only partly covered by the Katseli Act, but it is not an out-of-court compromise. So there should be a plan for it. I have said this in committee too, and many colleagues have said so, but I want to repeat it. Listen. There had to be a special arrangement for every category of citizens of debtors, because the categories of debtors are different. Second, for every category of business. And thirdly, for all sorts of debt. In other words, in terms of debt, public debt, bank debt and debt from a business or consumer loan. None of this can be done. And I'm telling you this, on the basis of the legal practice, which I had the honour of serving in the courts, to be able to develop in the committee as well. Furthermore, the possibility is introduced for natural persons who do not have bankruptcy capacity, which are not traders, that is to say, to make arrangements for debts to the public and social security institutions. The free trades are not traders, nor are they employees. Their activity, however, is similar to that of traders but has specificities, while the separation of their debts into commercial and non-problems. I think other speakers have mentioned it and Mr Karras in the committee, I do not know whether he has mentioned it here today. It should be clear what they can and can't do. Their incorporation into this bill at first could say that it is not a bad idea, but it is so sloppy - and I am sorry for the expression - and vote, which is certain that at the end the courts will be asked to pull the snake out of the hole. And you must not overlook that there are few merchants who have taken consumer loans - take note of this - to bring them in, to throw them into their business because of a lack of liquidity. I recognize why this bill came at this speed for the extrajudicial compromise. Because there is pressure from the institutions to proceed with the evaluation. I understand that. But you should be more effective and more stable and aggressive in the negotiation. Because, in fact, we, too, were faced with similar problems as a government - not to hide - but on arguments, for example, we managed to cope with the issue of those who remember, the issue of auctions and the value of the first offer that had to come out of real estate. In addition, Minister, not you, the government, if you had the slightest strategy capacity, would not suggest that you should include at least one positive use in the last three years, which is a dream for so many businesses today, because of the suffocation of the economy you have brought. Now, let's go to the simplest. If you even had the slightest strategy capacity, you'd already have the electronic platform ready. With your omissions you condemn the application of the law. The law is not going to succeed, unfortunately. But if, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law is adopted by Parliament, it will also fail because it is excessively bureaucratic. And I'm explaining. The initiation of the procedure requires too many documents and documents, and let me not mention the question of written applications again. Furthermore, there is no provision for short, automated procedures for small debts, except for a vague and constitutional authority for a ministerial decision, although and when the relevant ministers and the departments of the ministries are bound to draft them. Let us also go to one of the most serious issues of this need for judicial ratification and, indeed, from the polypartite court of first instance. I was given the opportunity to say this to the committee. We are turning an out-of-court settlement into a court of law, and indeed from the polypartite court of first instance. I explained to you and suggested ways to overcome this. However, I did not see you bringing any amendments or even going to a single court of first instance or to the President of the agency and in an act regulating the matter. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. We are going to the question of flexibility, which is the most important one. If you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, had the slightest idea of how the extrajudicial dispute resolution mechanisms work, in particular mediation, you would never bring this bill to the House to a vote. You create for no reason a numerus clausus of mispaid ombudsmen, who in the first time will have no special experience in management and will have an economic stimulus to devote the attention they need. Now on the issue of immunity, namely the non-responsibility of ombudsmen or banks' representatives, with regard to criminal and civil liability. You said, Minister, that the Minister of Justice will bring this. But this bill is signed by the Minister of Justice. So you had nine whole days to study this. I have proposed it not only to you but also to other colleagues who have identified it. You could bring it up with an amendment that you would be tabling today. I don't understand why. It's not the Minister of Justice to bring it. You don't have to. But since the bill is signed, I don't see why you have this quarrel. I regret the fact that the legislative improvements you have brought, they do not satisfy and they did not resolve the issues that we have raised. To sum up - and I conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance - I will repeat that the government's very delayed legislative initiative, which comes after a completely failed and time-consuming negotiation that broke down the Greek economy, is a recipe for failure. The apprentice magicians of "I don't pay", who became the government of "I pay it all", let's look for other supporters. It is our responsibility to vote against the government's paper exercises. Not because we do not think there is a need for a law on the extrajudicial compromise, but because the bill brought about by the government will, at best, be a lost chance at the worst - which is the most probable - will create more problems than it will solve. As far as the amendments are concerned, I have been given the opportunity to stress this to the committee too - for Mr Carras' amendment. It doesn't solve the problem. It is, however, in the right direction and in any case cures some imperfections in the bill. I must say that the wording it has made - although we in the committee have also found it - is very good and I think the study it has done with a combination of all the articles that refer to the guarantor, to small businesses, leaves no doubt that it covers the whole issue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u296	Mr. Athanasios, you've been over ten minutes. How can it be now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u297	Mr President, I'm done. As regards Mr Demetriades' amendment, I hope you will be well advised not to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u298	SYRIZA, Parliamentary spokesman for the KKE, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor. Here, Mr. Hostguard, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Mr President. It is time for business, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. It's the time of the small shopkeeper, the middle shop and the big one. They're the ones who lasted so many years in the crisis. They all change, their income has decreased, their contributions, taxes, all reasonable expenses have been increased, and yet they have. They kept because they love their work. Many times when they came to my law office after three, four, five years of the crisis, I said, you are heroes, because they kept the businesses after so many years of crisis. So we're trying to get them out of here today, save them. Let's think a little bit. We've saved the banks three times with everybody's money. We've saved the state. It went bankrupt and with the memorials we slowly pull it off from bankruptcy. We must therefore also be interested in the people of the market. And with this bill, we're interested in them. And today it is decided who is next to them and who are not. Let their ears be open, because in the committees and here in the House every party is clearly taking a stand. The government of SYRIZA - ANEL - Occupants are next to the businessman. It's next to the shopkeeper, the little one, the middle and the big one. We see the opposition parties 'yes, but'. The spirit that the flesh is willing to do is 'we do not like the bill'. GSEW made comments, but it says the bill is in good practice. But what can you expect from the parties that had criminalized the non-payment of taxes and contributions from the free professionals, the cooks, every businessman? Three criminal offences were. The non-payment of taxes was a double criminal offence. They had done this since the 1993 law. And the non-payment of insurance contributions three. Your first was paroled in the second, you paid the third, if you didn't get any money, you were in danger of getting in. Those who could not pay their own contributions. What should we wait for? What dialogue should they have with people in the market? We have also had Mr. Dendia's attempt, which I think for the first time he confessed, because the articles at Law No.4307 failed, for which the market was really thirsty, as it is thirsty for this bill. It's a bet for all of us to get the market out of the stall. They disagreed, he says, with Mr. Hardouvelis, so the law didn't walk. That's their interest. Two ministers disagreed, the market goes. So the law is good. I shall say a few words, but it has also been analysed by the rapporteur and by the Minister and by several speakers. But I want to stand in the mindset. Because out-court mechanisms and compromises are not familiar in our country and where they have tried to implement, they were not successful in their implementation, we do not have such familiarity and adaptation with such concepts and procedures. We must promote respect for the businessman for all the parties involved. What are the parties involved, what are the factors in this process? Let's see them quickly one by one. It is the businessman, the trader, the shopkeeper, the banks, the public, the insurance funds, the brokers and the people who will help businesses, the shops in this process, such as lawyers, economists, accountants. So let's see for one - one what the behavior should be. Because with their institutions, with the bodies, their associations must understand that they must work together in a good way in this mechanism, so that they can get out of the carpet no more. It is something that is of interest to everyone, it is win-win for all the parties involved and the banks it is not worth having red loans and no one in their locker room. The banks, Mr Minister, have shown very tough conduct, absurdly cruel behaviour, especially during the crisis. They had a culture and the guidelines they gave to their branches were out of the market, without respect for the businessman. While they saw that his turnover was down to half, 70 percent did not make such adjustments to him. On the contrary, when they arranged a loan, they usually doubled it or even more than doubled it. In other words, where he owed 50,000 euros, let's say the businessman was unable to pay them, they made him a favorable arrangement for the first two years, but the final amount he would pay would be 100,000. They made a huge extension of the loan. Many of the loans, therefore, that are to be adjusted, are old loans that have doubled in the crisis, because they have been adjusted and reset and increased. They have some practices that we need to take seriously. Let's say they don't give copies of the contracts. Before the contract is signed, no, no papers come out of the bank. What are these practices? Are we in a favoured European country? That's what we need to solve. And when will the time come when we will vote and the impunity, immunity, as we say, in fifteen days - when will it be? - the members of the banks, which are indeed necessary and will be done, because that is how we operate and are consistent with what we say, banks must at the same time at the same time operate in a reasonable and prosperous state. It is not possible for the businessman to go there and tell him "Read it here and sign it. I don't give you a copy to go with an expert to study it." That's what we need to see. The same attitude must be taken with the public and the insurance funds, and that is where our responsibility is greater. We must avoid the irrational inclinations and nuisances of the past, and this draft law allows them to be overcome. And the institutional bodies, ombudsmen and lawyers, legal associations must be vigilant so that monkey companies do not appear, as they do with the Katselis law. That is where we must also have cooperation with the General Secretariat of Trade and Consumers, Minister. In the process, as I said, I won't stand. It's just the stadiums. The bill aims at a viable company, a viable plan, because we are ultimately interested in the sustainable present and future of the market. I will give two answers to what has been said by my colleagues. Farmers, freelance professionals can enter their debts into the public and insurance funds and can also incorporate the debts to banks in the Katseli Act. So they have both the pie and the dog full, and they protect the first residence with the Katselis law, and they can incorporate public and insurance contributions here. Why do you mind that, colleagues? All colleagues in the Opposition "the hundreds of fifty thousand applications of Katseli law, pending and not...". Do you mind that a hundred and fifty thousand families have been saved? Do you mind giving a dose where they gave zero to the banks and now give a hundred, two hundred, three hundred euros and they're all happy? In the short term, Mr President, I will make three or four proposals, which I have said to the committees, so I will not be analytic. I think we should, Minister, in the quarter until the law is implemented, be concerned about the businesses that came out of the market because it did not pay them the public. He'd made a payment stop. Study companies, public works companies. It's very serious. So the government took them out of the market, and now they're not going into the bill? My proposal is that three years for them to count to the time they did not pay them the public, that is to say, to go back a little, and that can be certified by the ombudsman. For the consistent borrowers - and President Kaklamanis said so this morning - I propose that we force the Greek Banks Association to institutionalise a bonus, cut them off from interest, and they too should understand that they are not the sucklers of the market. Because we also have unfair competition, the shop that pays with the non-payable shop, eventually the one who didn't pay will lower prices. Free professionals who have made a final decision in the Katseli Act - I say it to be heard - can incorporate their debts into the public and to the ECA, in paragraph 15, paragraph 21. I would also say that the concept of a small trader must finally be defined, because there is a great deal of difference in case-law. Also, to clarify what is happening with the articles of the Law No.4307. My opinion is that as long as the new law walks, it must be abolished, we must not have two procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u300	Mr. Sanctuary, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u301	I shall therefore conclude with a very brief response, because the rapporteur, Mr Georgioda, and all the colleagues in the New Democracy have said that it is not only out-of-court settlement. On the other hand, however, they say that the provisions of the law are not mandatory. Hey, how are they going to be? We can't do one and the other. If the provisions are mandatory, there will be courts. You're asking for more courts after all. I mean, we should know what we're talking about. You will allow me, Mr President, to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u302	Hey, how much to allow, ten minutes you've arrived! Will you talk by night? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u303	So I close by saying that on the basis of what Mr Hatzidakis said, neither do our festivals like nor do we get late. The lenders found for the first time a strong defense - to restore the football discussion - the opposition, the New Democracy and the PASOK, with the "poverty" were used otherwise, they had thrown the country into the amateur. Now we're upgrading her, we've brought her to the First National. This bill will be the counterattack, the first goal we will make in society and development, and when the elections take place in 2019, we will play First National and Champions League and then let the people choose what they like.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u304	Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u305	Thank you, Mr President. The previous speaker was revealing but also challenging, saying that it is time for the entrepreneur, when the government is negotiating to close the second assessment, which will mark a new attack on workers, on self-employed, on traders, on craftsmen. Yes, of course, the government is negotiating and dealing with the support of the interests of monopolistic groups. It is negotiated on the basis of our country's urban order strategy, on the one hand, that the broken capitalist crisis continues to pay for the people's strata and workers and, on the other hand, to form a very favourable field of action of business groups. This class sign also appears from this draft law on the extrajudicial compromise. Through this, the pursuit of the government, whether it is successful or not, is to launch, speed up the process of reorganising the financial system through another mechanism for managing the red loans and, at the same time, facilitate the highly indebted business groups. On substance, the draft law on the extrajudicial compromise is nothing more than another necessary step towards strengthening the process of capitalist recovery. The Communist Party of Greece makes a very clear distinction between the highly indebted people's households and the workers and the highly indebted business groups. Our concern, our centre of attention is precisely how we deal with this process of overcompensation for people's households, that professionals, self-employed people, farmers and farmers can be relieved of this situation. We are concerned with them at the heart of attention, and we are concerned about them, who are, of course, over-compensated because of the capitalist crisis, on the one hand, the aims of the monopolistic groups for very cheap labour and, on the other hand, for dominance in a much larger part of the market, flying out of the market for self-employed people in small businesses and, on the other, because of the complete attack on wages and pensions, on the part of the capitalist crisis by the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, today by SYRIZA and ANEL, which is aimed at their standard of living: very cheap labour force, reductions in wages and pensions, and on the part of further health, education, welfare and at the rights which workers had on their labour and insurance rights. This attack will continue in the next period. It has no expiry date, precisely because at its heart it is the condition of the armoring of the competitiveness of capitalist enterprises, of supporting capitalist profitability, which is a process without, of course, an end date and tomorrow, the slogan that the government will say, trying to retain, favour the labour-popular movement, will be that, in the name of maintenance of recovery, we cannot sacrifice competitiveness, so that you do not have irrational requirements. This attack will, of course, continue within the framework of the second assessment by reducing tax, by reducing pensions, by further liberalising the market, and by opening up shops on Sundays. All these procedures, market liberalisation, opening up on Sundays, facilitate further monopolies of the market. And to them, Mr Minister, as you said, the highly indebted people's households, professionals and self-employed, does not respond to their needs, the Katseli Act neither the original nor the original one, nor, of course, the one that you revised and, in essence, turns them into hostages, the highly indebted people's households and the professionals, the financial system without showing any light from this situation and at the same time paving the way for the seizures and the first residence on this path. In this world, only the JRC's proposal, which your government also rejected at a celebrity, is that your intention was to shield the financial system and the JRC's proposal for a law against the interests of the financial system, because it spoke not only of interest cuts, even talking about capital cuts and housing loans and professional, agricultural and livestock loans, protection of the unemployed, protection of all these households, who had serious survival problems. But this is not only the law of Katseli, it does not, but instead it forms the preconditions, precisely to speed up this process and to continue the hostage process. This draft law, which we are discussing on the extrajudicial compromise on substance, concerns and is concerned with how it will respond to the needs of the capitalist economy as a whole, namely how it will respond to the needs of the system for the recovery of the capitalist economy through the destruction of a part of the capital that is necessary, in order to speed up this process. Thus, the management of red loans forms the conditions for the support and resolution of the financial system. So the first objective is precisely that, to support the financial system, to facilitate its reassurance. The second objective which it has is precisely to facilitate the highly indebted business groups, not only in terms of bank lending, but also at the same time through the provocative provisions of Articles 9, 15, on flexibility and flexibility in the public sector. There are a number of provocative provisions in favour of business groups. Through the logic of the flexibility of the tax trial and of the insurance institutions, the possibility of deletion of interest, increases and fines either of the tax administration or of the insurance institutions in business groups is in fact hidden. In fact, Article 9 states very clearly that it can be removed from the creditors' requirements and that 95% of the public debt is deducted from fines imposed by the tax administration and 85% of the public and social security claims from surcharges and late payment interest. In fact, have you ever deleted interest, surcharges and fines concerning tax debts of the tax worker? Debt of employees with blocks in the insurance funds? Not only that, but with the arrangements you have brought, not only cannot pay the tax that you have imposed on them, not only can they not pay the unfavourable insurance contributions, but at the same time you are punishing them on top of the fines. On the contrary, in business groups that owe hundreds of thousands to each other's tax bases, hundreds of thousands or millions to the insurance funds, you delete with an incredible ease 95% of fine claims from tax administration and 85% from fines and increases in insurance funds. At the same time, in the context of flexibility, you are also giving the opportunity for further deletions. If all the creditors agree not to be public outside. So, are you actually allowing haircuts and debts? Of course, both haircuts and the debts on the substance. At the same time, the damocles are being broken against the workers, and you are increasingly stumbling them with the tax raid, with the reduction of tax, which will come the next time, with the ENPIA and the rest of the ravines and with the arrogances, the huge insurance contributions to the insurance funds, to get what? A pension that has been paid in very poor and lame, if it is also received, which of course does not cover all the contributions that have been made over the past few years, nor of course also their needs. And at the same time, they will pay expensive drugs, hospitals and their health. The third element you are seeking is precisely to facilitate the concentration of the market in less hands through this process. It is clear that the well-established monopolist groups, business groups, will be able to be better placed to compete with small businesses, professionals and self-employed people working in these sectors, because they will have been relieved by a huge burden of debt to creditors, banks and the public. At the same time, of course, with a very cheap workforce, it will always be possible with much better positions to launch competition and attack on professionals, on the part of self-employed, on smaller businesses. So it is clear where you are aiming and, of course, it is clear that the opposition of the other parties that are pushing you - even the Golden Dawn urges you to become even more generous in the business groups - to delete more, to make them easier, even in terms of debts to the banks and in terms of tax debts. I shall finish, Minister, with this amendment, the Dimitriadis amendment, which has monopolized the debate and which has already come before us. We say this because the Member concerned signs it, we will not target anything else. It's a government amendment. Instead of bringing it as a government and having the courage to bring it as ministerial intervention and regulation, the government has put a Member of Parliament to testify. And it is at least a strange amendment not to say any more serious words. This amendment is at least photographic, and in substance forms part of the facilitation of privatisation and the privatizations initiated by the government. Let the Treasury have the courage to bring ministerial regulation if it considers it a serious matter and to say what issues and what business groups it concerns, which public bodies are already involved, which are already in the privatisation process and not through such an amendment to try to resolve this issue in secret and in mosquitos. For this very reason, the Communist Party of Greece is asking the government not to accept this amendment and to bring it, if it considers it to be a serious ministerial procedure so that we can discuss it very thoroughly and, in any case, see who is behind these provisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u306	Mrs Elisabeth Scoofa has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u307	We have listened with great care and interest almost all the previous speakers and the Parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece. I did not really count, dear colleague, how many times you mentioned the term 'business groups' and tried to connect this bill with an effort to support business groups. We wonder whether an undertaking that has a total debt to any type of creditor of at least EUR 20 000, if only the business groups fall within this category. I would also like to remind you that my own personal desire, at least in the negotiations which the government has had and which successfully vis-à-vis foreign partners, defends the rights of workers, has been with you. We must have you together, and when we have successfully said and said, despite the opposing efforts, that from autumn 2018 we will regain collective labour agreements and therefore allow every category of workers with the help of the government to renegotiate the minimum wage. If that is an anti-government policy, then somehow differently we define things. As far as New Democracy is concerned, I remembered a joke made by a school teacher. I remind you: he is a peasant - he says - who one, two, three times yelled at the aggressors of the panic: 'Lucy eats my sheep, my wolf eats the sheep, my wolf eats the sheep', until the wolf actually showed up to eat his sheep and no one brought him along for help. What do I mean? Your catastrophe has not stopped a second. Remind me of a translucent example of highly failed catastrophe. You've been telling us under the insurance law that this is how we hatch the batters and that that's how the employers will say less, they'll pay less insurance contributions, etc. The facts once again, of course, disprove you. Why - let me remind you - in the first quarter of 1917, ECA's collection of insurance contributions amounted to 60%, and so we have a surplus in the insurance funds of EUR 100 million and not a deficit, as it was in the budget. Let's go down. What has to come out of the Chamber today is that the New Democracy implements such a successful opposition policy of responsibility that it actually calls on Greek entrepreneurs not to come forward to negotiate and come to an agreement on their debts. And how do you do that, gentlemen of Officer Opposition? By voting against this bill. And personally, from what you have said, you really have not convinced me because you are voting against it. I would, of course, like to see what you will tell the Greek businessmen the next day, who will see, by thousands, to exploit the most favourable arrangements under this law. I also do not know what you are responding to Mr Vassilis Corkides, the President of the Hellenic Confederation of Trade and Entrepreneurship, who says that this bill is a lifesaving for the market. If the President of the Confederation of Trade and Entrepreneurship does not express the problems and suggestions of businesses and is better expressed by you than Mr Corkides, please tell us to know that. Also, in the same direction are the statements made by Mr Michalos, President, to memorialize the Central Union of Chambers and the Athens Chamber of Commerce and Industry, who again says that this bill is an important step towards the resolution of both the banking and the business landscape in the country. Let me remind you once again that this draft law relates mainly to enterprises that by 31/12-2016 had arrears of more than EUR 20,000 and which had been delaying at least 90 days or debts settled after 1 July 2016. However, an important note, which has not been sufficiently heard in the Chamber: on the basis of Article 15(21), both freelance professionals, doctors, lawyers, engineers, topographers - what else - and also businesses with debts of less than EUR 20,000 are able to make arrangements with the public and with the insurance funds and, of course, the appropriate ministerial decisions should be made. I would like to ask you, Minister, because despite the dispersal of false news that you do not know the Greek business reality, because you know it, that this ministerial decision on free trade, farmers and petty people should come out. I should also like to say that, under this draft law, debts from all kinds of loans, credits from the operator, housing or consumer can be regulated. I should like to stress that, unlike the JRC, we consider it a good thing that interest on late payment or fines can be deleted. This possibility is given in Article 9(2)(d). In other words, this article eradicates 85% of all increases and interest and 95% of fines before the businessman sits with the creditors and the ombudsman at the same table. Let me make it quite clear that operators who have debts to the public and the insurance funds can regulate them under this law, within just a hundred and twenty monthly instalments, so over ten years and with a minimum payment of 50 euros. And, of course, we firmly believe that Greek small and medium-sized businessmen will make a great deal of use of the specific possibilities that the law gives them, that this way we will have a resumption or continuation or even a development of healthy entrepreneurship, and that is why supporting or creating new jobs, increasing GDP, etc. So, unlike the New Democracy, which is once again fugitive, we are practically supporting healthy Greek entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u308	Thank you. Ilias Katamero from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as I respect the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Teddy, because I followed him very carefully before, I cannot make a reference to the way he addressed this House and to his style. I understand the need to apologize, somehow, for the law they built but did not walk. And to apologize, he revealed to us that he had disagreed with Mr. Hardouvelis. But he then comes to absolve us because we did not apply him and that he did not finally succeed because SYRIZA did not apply him. Now, how he wanted us to implement a law that he judged and disagreed with Mr Hardouvelis that he was imperfect, he did not explain it to us. And he could not explain it to us, as the New Democracy cannot explain to us too many things and travels. Even Mr. Dendias did not escape at the end of his speech to repeat the aftermath of "go, go, go". Didn't you get bored, dear fellow Members and colleagues of the New Democracy, the same squirrel? You say things like "you are incompetent, you destroy society, you destroy the world, you get worse, you leave". And "go away", we understand it from the point of view that you want and prevent everything that has started and is revealed for the great fuss, but also why you cannot get used to the position of counterpopulation. As far as the other things that you are always appalling to us, such as 'incompetent people, you cannot manage, etc.', those who write them to you, change them to you. They even have you in the same order, that you are 'destructing and etc.' and at the end 'go', but that is every time they change. And they're forced to change it to you by those who write it to you, because you're disgusting. Disguise everything. "The rating will not be closed," you deny, "the insurance will devastate the world", you disguise, as 70% is due to the fact that the notes and most people have been coming for some time. That "we will have a recession", you deny, "we have taken loans and increased the loan of the country", you are denying it. Even today it has been mentioned here, again by Mr Denktash, but also by other Members, 4% of the surplus. You are trying to degrade it, by saying that it has been achieved, because it has become a payment stop. Of course, while we say again that these public payments to private individuals are included, when the surplus is calculated - the most serious - you repeat that it is only because of overcompensation. None of us are happy with taxation. You know that. And people know very well and feel the efforts made to alleviate low incomes and not to get bored. But you do not count on this - take note of it: you know very well that in the negotiations, when we wanted to count numbers, nothing was taken into account from what we told them. We have been telling them to take into account that we will take measures to combat tax evasion, that we will take steps to combat smuggling and a whole range of other measures to save money from combating not only tax evasion and smuggling, but also the smuggling of public money that took place with the party that had set up the triangle of interlocutors. All these lenders did not include them in the forecasts for the surpluses and measures that we set out. They didn't want it. They wanted the sparse, the parametrics as we call them, the pensions and the wages, for sure. So that is what creates 4% and that is what will create us the surpluses that we have as a target and which we will overcome. That is why we will be in the programme and that is why it will be activated, not the cut that you have threatened and which has been disproved in it, but the cut - as the Prime Minister has said - in the wastes and in all the remulsions that are now revealed. This is how you will be disproved with this bill. Destruction again, you're saying it won't work, that the courts will block the catastrophe. What's the truth? Where do you support this refusal so you won't vote on the bill? You do not vote, as you did not vote for the thirteenth pension - as you would say - as you will not vote for the countermeasures. Go tell the world why you don't vote for all this as well as this bill. Where do you stand? It says - it is not out-of-court, because judicial decisions are provided for. The intention is - and you know it - that you are not referring, firstly, to the article which, when it provides for judicial intervention, says that it is optional and is not provided for in all cases and, secondly, that it is final in the multi-member court. There is no appeal, there is no third party, and you are supposed to come and say a comprehensive proposal that you have and posted. What's your proposal? There's no court order. Do you know what's being created? That's when we're going to have opposings, three-stages, appeals, appeals, and whatever you want. And that's when the courts are blocking, because someone else's going to appeal from here, someone else's going to appeal from there, and someone else's going to make a third-party cut, or back from what you're referring to. And one last thing to finish and be in my time, Mr President, is bureaucracy. 'Writing', 'creation', 'create bureaucracy'! It seems that all of you who have been dressed up, have not dealt on the streets to go and submit your papers to a bank to set you up with a card or set you up with a small loan. Do you know how many supporting documents and how many papers they need in these cases? No more than the law demands. And with the circulars that come out and everything that the bill is trying to secure, bureaucracy will not only be what you say, but will be much smaller than now. It's barely coming to put in order here the chaos that exists here right now, where those who owe, especially those who don't have lawyers and consultants, etc., don't know what to do. Where'd they go first? At the bank? In the cashier? IRS? That's chaos, and that's bureaucracy, and that's what's coming to regulate the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u310	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and informed about the history of the building and the way this House is organised and operated, forty-three students and students and three educational attendants from the 6th High School of Stavroupolis of Thessaloniki (Second Chamber) The House welcomes them.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u311	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u312	The next speaker is Mr Dimitriadis. Mr. Dimitriadis, I'd like your patience for a minute. The parliamentary spokesman for the Democratic Alliance, Mr Loverdos, has asked for the floor for an intervention. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, a debate was held at noon on the occasion of the tabling of Mr Dimitriadis' amendment, an amendment which, regardless of the rapporteur's intentions, is suspicious, is scandalous. Suspects of corruption are great. We have asked you, because it is not your responsibility, but you are the proposer of the draft law Minister, not to accept it. It's been too many hours since. I take the floor for the third time on this issue to ask the President to exercise all his influence on the government to tell us: does he accept it or does he accept it? The State Secretary accepted it. He came here in an internal consultation, i.e. a set-up, and accepted it. But if Mr Papadimitriou does not say 'yes', it is not considered that the amendment has been accepted. In the meantime, we gather signatures for roll-call vote. And because the day is awkward about colleagues' programming and because they have electoral districts - and because, and because, and because, and because we're on Thursday nights, we do so clean. We call on the Government not to accept it, to postpone the matter and to bring this regulation into line - it is widely debated for whom this charitable arrangement is - by means of the normal procedure with a report from the General Accounting Office. It's up to you, Minister. If you say now, the National Representation and many parliamentary groups are really unblocking the issue of roll-call voting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u314	Minister, would you like to answer now?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u315	I'll still be waiting to be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u316	Good. Mr Dimitrios Dimitriadis, Member of SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u317	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today's draft law on the extrajudicial system of business debts is a bill that starts from interest and support to its own entrepreneurship and its people, an entrepreneurial that has been sorely afflicted by its supposedly addicts and supporters, by the allegedly, my ears, many know about it and many things to do with it. For too many years there has been no single elementary support initiative for the business world. For many years the only interest of the dominant economic bloc has been banks, state suppliers, state-owned airfields and businesses, which the crisis has finally not touched at all. Debt stress, the destruction of productive structures, the shrinking of the funds and the padlocks is a reality which is of interest to us alone. This reality we have tried - and we are trying - to overthrow it with one specific example, with one example of our own and creation, such as the law on the extrajudicial mechanism. It is a bill, which has a reformist momentum, because it is aimed at four hundred thousand indebted enterprises. Create an electronic adjustment platform by the borrower. It creates a hundred and twenty offices throughout the country serving the borrowers. It broadens the Private Debt Management Special Secretariat, which we have already built and increased. It ultimately values the public sector's aid for reliability, transparency and transparency under the rules of operation of the motto of the mechanism. The bill, which started as a Stathakis law and continues as a bill by Mr Papadimitriou, is our ambitious creation towards the old laws, which, while having different starting points, had a common point: the absolutely zero result. The last law of Mr. Dendia had fifty two applications and three loose ends. Because their project was to safeguard the interests of the banks alone, while we focus on its entrepreneurship and its people and its productive reconstruction. The reform that we are promoting mainly takes place at two levels: firstly, in the area of rights and democracy, because it is attempting to start a virtuous economic cycle in companies through the regulation of debts and thus normalise the daily lives of people on the market. We are talking, in short, about restoring unrestrained rights and the feedback of creative mood and their energy. The second is the apparent development perspective of the Greek economy through the reorganisation of the banking system due to the reduction of red loans, the resolution of their portfolio and the normalisation of the market. Thirdly, the strengthening of the public funds through the clearing of outstandings and the possibility of collecting new revenues. Fourthly, since the relaunch of entrepreneurship, precisely because of the productive restructuring of the enterprises themselves that are being regulated. The extrajudicial mechanism of private debt is becoming an important reform in the prospect of our development reconstruction. It closes a difficult cycle, solving a difficult equation with a commitment to possible success and finally opens a virtuous economic cycle. All debts are therefore regulated in favour, without favouring strategic malpractices, due to the lifting of banking secrecy, but also the voluntary declaration of borrowers towards a wider round table. The primary objective is not to close viable businesses. We are dealing with a business strategy. It is a new law that is simply regulatory and is not bankrupt because it is based on commonly agreed only. So we trust, in short, the motivation of the solution. Because I would also like to mention something about the amendment that I tabled as a Member of Parliament, Mr President, I would ask you for your tolerance to close my position because most of my colleagues and our rapporteur have said so. Well, I conclude by saying that debtors and creditors can freely formulate the content of the debt restructuring agreement and thus determine at will the level of debt write-off. In particular, the restructuring contract shall start and be executed as from the day of the conclusion of the trading process in proportion to all creditors. The restructuring contract shall be binding on all creditors, irrespective of their participation in the negotiation or agreement reached, provided that it is subsequently ratified by a competent court, i.e. the Multilateral Court in the region of which the debtor is based. There is a specific challenge ahead of us, which is to regulate hundreds of thousands of business debts. That's the reality. That's who we have to go through. Indeed, the cubit is high, but I'm sure we'll get over it again. I closed my position on the extrajudicial compromise soon because I want to refer to - because a lot of my colleagues in this Chamber have heard - in the amendment I tabled, which concerns the following. First of all, every amendment tabled has the objective of resolving a number of practical issues arising from reality itself and in this respect in the economy. I would like and would ask that, when a Member table an amendment to the effect that he agrees or disagrees, they should be placed on the substance of the amendment on whether it is fair, whether it is transparent, whether it solves problems and not on the stage of the procedure, who is, on a teratology and a reality which has nothing to do with me and I return it to those who have expressed it in this negative way. This amendment, therefore, concerns entrepreneurship, once again, concerns the attempt to bring certain rules of law and transparency into line with specific issues arising only from the privatization of businesses, cleansing or special cleansing, and also from the wider public sector, they concern exceptional cases of smuggling violations and nothing else but a general regulatory framework. It wants to solve new investors who may have problems with the duration of the business and its viability, so the future of the company and its employees is not the responsibility of any of them and have proven themselves, but have some of them precedents. The responsibilities and all the demands of the public remain to the former, and there is no issue of charity or anything else, simply this new investor, who has proved to have nothing to do with any new problems, but which are due solely to the past, do not think that he should continue to be involved and we are asking for the following. You will allow me to read specifically what the amendment says, because it is important. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS VARENTIS takes over]] ‘For the payment of a multiple fee, duties and other charges levied and charged against the principals of the infringement, which are imposed, that is to say, not on civil and non-civil persons, i.e. new investors, to the extent that they have been proved to have been accountable and that pendingity had not been notified to the investors concerned at the critical stage of the competition in question.’ That's all. Far from us any involvement with things that have nothing to do with reality, away from us anything that has nothing to do with solving real problems with entrepreneurship, business and workers in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u318	Thank you. Mr. George Diaras from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u319	Ladies and gentlemen, the need for the bill is obviously undeniable. On the basis of the information submitted by the GFCM, red loans amount to approximately EUR 107 billion. And they should have decreased by approximately 40 billion by the end of 2019, in accordance with the deadline set by the European Banking Authority. The new law can potentially be incorporated into some four hundred thousand enterprises which, in their vast majority, are very small companies, which can set the conditions for a new start in the economy on a more stable and healthy basis. New Democracy's aggression in the bill in my view is unjustified. If the Greek people were to know all the truth and in depth the facts and omissions of the governments of New Democracy and PASOK who destroyed both the country and these small and medium-sized enterprises, they would have a different attitude. Questions exist and will be raised for many years. Who are responsible for the non-monitoring of the banking system? Who closed the eyes to the great theft of Greek savings? How and on what criteria did the banks lend without the possibility of viability? Who were the strings to cover up the responsibilities of the bank Golden Boys who - probably with the uninjurious - to non-fertile persons and businesses in the same way as the insolvent PASOK parties, New Democracy, etc., as well as the media with mythical sums? The rapporteur of the new Republic, Mr Bakoyannis, in committee, invited Minister Nikos Papapas because he said in his recent interview that it is not only the value of quantitative development, but the quality of development. Ms Bakoyannis stressed the value of quantitative growth and reaped the quality of growth to lead to healthy economies with low unemployment, but also stable jobs. I have repeatedly referred to the issue of GDP growth with features of parasiticism and persistent consumption in previous speeches. However, a characteristic example is the period of governance of the New Democracy 2004-2009, when we had a continuous average GDP growth of 4% per year. So, in these years, we have had a great quantitative development of GDP, but where have we been? To the collapse. It was the development of borrowers, the development of parasiticism, the development of destruction after all. GDP in the country grew by lending and at the same time agricultural and industrial production declined steadily. GDP as a numerical size without quality characteristics is not a reliable sound growth net. With 4% annual growth, or more than 22% in the five years of New Democracy, there has been a 28% reduction in agricultural production, expressed in euros and the secondary sector in the same years by 15%, while we have had 4% growth per year, 22% overall. At the same time, cafeterias, advertising, fashion, sales of cards, insurance and everything. I therefore expected the Vice-Presidents, following this negative experience in our country, to have understood the need for quality development, which will lead to sustainability. It is those features that build a sustainable economy and not a bubble of growth that destroy the productive fabric of society. It is true that each unit of GDP growth brings some jobs. But I insist. When growth is a bubble, these jobs are lost, as they were lost when the bank bubble exploded, as they were lost when the building bubble exploded. In addition, the development announced by the Vice-President of the New Democracy by selling islands and beaches and quality development leading to a sustainable economy and real prosperity. So let us talk about the big political and ideological differences that the parties have. In expressing the House, the positions of the political ecology, I have been differentiated from the dominant system expressed in previous years by New Democracy and PASOK, especially for PASOK, since the period of the Seiti rule. The two parties identified ideologically and politically in the policy under way with neoliberalism and barbaric globalisation. I do not, of course, identify all Members with party policy, nor do I identify PASOK with New Democracy. But there has been a great displacement of the PASOK towards neoliberalism. The system has the following basic characteristics. It increases the economic disparities between workers and the large majority of citizens and economic elites. 1% of the world's population owns as much wealth as the remaining 99%, according to UN figures. It forms unsustainable economies. It wastes natural resources and destroys nature. It destroys SMEs and small and medium-sized enterprises. In this economic context of neoliberalism and asymmetrical development of the aggressive capitalism of the multinationals, the banking system and businesses worked. The New Democracy has not had a sustainable economy plan, nor will it ever have. The viability plan has nothing to do with the inconsistent market in neoliberalism, which is the core of the ideology of the New Democracy. So business has led to a dead end from your own policy. With the loans that you did not pay for the country, capital was put on the market that enlarged services, trade and parasiticism at the expense of the real productive sectors of the economy. Your bubbles have broken and the difficulties of recuperating are managed by the current government. But the demand is today for an economic independence recovery programme in a sustainable direction, and that is what we must insist on and help all. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to vote in favour of the draft law on the out-of-court settlement mechanism, which will give a breath to hundreds of businesses and workers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President. The bill, as it goes without saying, cannot solve all the problems of the highly indebted companies. But it enables many businesses to survive. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I asked for another minute, Mr President. I can't talk when the bell's buzzing at the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u320	The most effective way not to buzz is to finish the talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u321	I'm done. This will therefore benefit the banks as they are more likely to collect their money from businesses in operation than from companies that have closed down. Another positive element of the bill is that greater flexibility is given to the process of extrajudicial conciliation in small enterprises. Finally, Mr President, I wanted to tell the Minister that the essence of Mr Karras' amendment is very serious and I think that this is not disputed by anyone. I do not know if, in the context of negotiation and institutions, it can go through. I, however, adopt it - and I address Mr Carras - have studied it and I think it is very right. I also wanted to say that it is positive, Minister, that too many of the issues raised by the opposition have been adopted with supplements that you have made in the bill. This is a very good way of legislating. And let us begin to keep these procedures from now on and the bills improve in the discussion process and in the committees and in the plenary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u322	Mr Ursouzidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to the Stepma with mixed feelings, on the one hand having the bill and expectations it creates for people who have created obligations under the particular conditions in our own country over recent years and on the other hand with a feeling of indignation towards those who have had the fate of the country for too many years and who could actually predict that the country will not reach this point today and that we have to vote for a law which, at least as the bill appreciates, represents four hundred and three thousand indebted enterprises. The worst of all is that these same people who created these conditions, who have grown up for too many years in our homeland, and have dug out in 2010, want to reconstruct this country's fates. For the unprecedented economic downturn in recent years after 2010, in conjunction with the excessive lending that had been created in previous decades, it is solely the banking system, but also our political system, which not only controlled it, but participated. It was in good cooperation, one would say, after a period of time drawing resources, either directly from the banking system or indirectly, through large business groups supplying the political system, while the business people themselves were drawing billions, jointly charging citizens. The holes they created in the economy were covered by credits that cumulatively created the debt. They brought the excessive taxation, the banks' recapitalisations at the expense of the Greek worker, the criminal haircut of the funds' reserves, the carpets which, they have all understood, proved to be completely disastrous for the economy. Enterprises that have for many years supported the backbone of the economy and created jobs have suddenly found themselves with disproportionate debts in relation to their capacity. So they had to support themselves effectively, without bureaucracy and extra costs. This is an attempt in the light of the bill. It is attempting to resolve enterprises with a haircut or an extension of obligations over a decade, through an out-of-court settlement mechanism with a single criterion, their pre-tax, interest, instalments, viability. The bill is not forgiven and it is not about businessmen who have circumvented previous laws. The debtor proposes to his creditors a proposal based on his own study on the possibility of repayment that he considers to have. No one knows better than the businessman the potential of his own business. The debtor and the creditors freely can find the most advantageous solution to their common problem, reduce the damage. That's what this is about. The regulation of liabilities is aimed at the sustainability of enterprises, new jobs, increased production, and also the normalisation of the banking system, as the necessary Treaty for the response of businesses is created. It's still being proven capable. Here, it is essential that the country finally enters a regime other than that it has experienced in recent years, so that money can be returned to the market, that growth can be created. That's the only way I see the bill thrive. We must therefore all move in this direction. In relation to previous attempts to regulate debt, the proposed way is obviously more realistic and practicable, since it has already been tested in the recent past in countries with close problems, such as Portugal, and has done so. The bill, if you could say it in five points, relates, in my assessment, to the following main points. It concerns enterprises operating in the country and rightly so. It lays down objective criteria for the eligibility of enterprises. So, dominating is sustainability. The Private Debt Management Special Secretariat supports stakeholders and does not treat them as individuals are usually treated by the public. Fourthly, the application for membership shall be forwarded to a coordinator who shall undertake the organisation of the negotiation. Fifthly, public and insurance contributions comply with specific rules so that the whole process is soon completed. To be effective and beneficial, therefore, the new bill concerning entrepreneurs, free professionals and farmers should be adapted to the current reality. The market conditions are sure that for some time they will remain extremely difficult. Magic wands don't exist. This bill is not yet a regulation of debts, such as the one-and-a-half-dose law on bilateral relations between the citizen and the public. It concerns the possibility, in the way that the state should plan, to allow businesses to recover. Entrepreneurs must study the conditions for their businesses to survive and propose a viable and, above all, sincere solution, otherwise they will find it before them. Creditors, for their own part, banks, public, private individuals, have to respect reality and replace realistic solutions to ensure that their precarious claims are limited. It is known that no one is having a good time if the neighbor is not having a good time. It's an old proverb and it's hiding truths. There's going to be a crisis at the neighbor's door sometime. The reasons for finding a common location for the creation of conditions of business survival are well known and accepted by all the parties involved. And I'm explaining. The long-standing crisis has made it clear that when a company puts a bundle and is sold out, its property does not involve a winning creditor, but rather because of the collapse of the real estate market, because of the limitation of market interest and because of the high legal and judicial costs, it actually creates a further problem for creditors. In view of this, it is not, I say, a question of adjusting the type of one hundred instalments. Its philosophy is another, and it must be respected by all the parties. Finally, I can only refer to what I have experienced in the preparation of the bill. The agencies have come and submitted opinions. Mr Karamouzis, the President of the Association of Greek Banks, testifies that the Banking Union is in line with the joint arrangement in an extrajudicial procedure of business debts. In other words, we are in favour of the institution, but we have a number of objections. And it makes sense to object. Mr Kanellopoulou, Secretary-General of the OPCW, Organization for the Promotion of Alternative Methods for Dispute Settlement, says: "This is undoubtedly a very important legislative initiative aimed at strengthening entrepreneurship and providing a second chance". That's the philosophy of the law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Antonios Mengoulis, Managing Director of HSY, states: "The criterion concerns the settlement of debts from 1 July, presents objections and proposes improvements". Mr. Kavathas, President of the Board of Directors of the General Confederation of Professionals of Craftworkers, Traders of Greece - 99% of the market, a million seven hundred thousand workers employed in these enterprises - states: "The extrajudicial mechanism is certainly an important tool in the hands of the parties and the state that significantly reduces administrative costs and significantly improves business risks. Mr Vassilis Alexandris - who also represents me indirectly - can be a lawyer but represents all the freelance professionals - states: 'The provision of Article 15(11) of the draft law on the possibility of exceptional regulation of freelance professionals to the public and insurance funds in the event that there are no debts to private creditors' has been introduced. Although no doubt this provision is a good one, it falls short of the perfect one, to say it simply.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u324	Please, Mr Ursouzidis, do not exhaust the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u325	I conclude with my proposal, Mr President. Mr Mitoglidis says the same. Mrs Kuboulis - who is an accredited mediator, a marketman who has a good subject - states: "We can only welcome the draft law which is being passed for the first time in Greek entrepreneurship. The Greek society shall require the negotiation between the indebted enterprises and all their creditors.’ If, then, we do not listen to those people who live inside the market, who should we listen to? Those who are miles from the market, who have not suffered the consequences of the crisis? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u326	Ladies and gentlemen, it is known to the House that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after they have been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and were informed about the history of the building and how this House is organized and operated, forty students and students and three teachers from Platanias High School of Chania. We welcome the girls! [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mr Papachristopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr President. I cannot help mentioning the previous speaker, Mr Ursouzidi, who has done a great job. It's all market anatomy. He says self-evident. It's a arrangement that I think she's been looking forward to, but the whole market. We all know that in 2015 there were already three hundred thousand padlocks. I have no hesitation to say yes, this situation has deteriorated to a large extent, because there was financial suffocation, because this government for many was a parentheses, because the neck loop was tightened, why, why. It's not time to see you. However, it is certain that articles have been written unbelievably, that broadcasts have been carried out. For two and a half years we have heard how bad this government is, how hostile it is to private individuals and people working in private businesses. He said 20 names, Mr. Ursuzidis. I could say another thirty, but that's not the job. It's not just Michael and Corkydis, it's the whole market. When we say 'all market', the whole market. And it also concerns a million workers who are supposedly not interested in this government, but "it is state-owned, all state-owned" etc. So here comes this regulation, which is currently about four hundred thousand businessmen in whose businesses - I have heard a number, I do not know if it is a million, I say that it is less - are seven hundred thousand workers. We're talking about an incision that's happening for the first time. For the first time, I'm saying it again. And if you want to make criticism, I believe that economic suffocation did not allow us to make this move earlier. It's happening now. I'd expect everybody to say hello. So, the hundred and twenty instalments is a bad thing? Ten years is a bad thing? Fifty euros, the minimum dose, is it a bad thing? The fact that the 50,000 who put us on a wall was 20,000 is a bad thing? And say something? There is no way that the public, the funds and the banks will not adapt even to those who have less than 20,000 debts, Mrs Skoufa said so. The Katseli law has been reformed, but beyond that is isology and parity now, when this regulation and this bill passes, and those who have been in debt of less than 20,000 to regulate them, are now or are sure. There were objections to poor payers. What do you think? Tax and banking secrets accept a man who's a patron to check on him, see the property situation of his relatives? A little hard. He's got insurance plates. I would also like to say this and for people to hear at the moment that even some businesses or companies that did not qualify - anyway - did not succeed - the prerequisites, in order to get in this arrangement, should have managed some of the last three years to have achieved at least a euro's operating profit. So to go, too, to the people who trust them, because they have a great chance of getting into the arrangement. I have even heard Members say that 'farmers'. I would therefore inform you that those farmers who have a cost-book are also subject to regulation. And I would like to say this to the farmers: even those who did not have revenue and expenditure books. First of all, there has been a criticism because it has been delayed three months. Electronic platform, you know, it doesn't happen from day to day. It was an expected delay. Or - second criticism - why, let's say, does it involve everyone? It was hard to negotiate with the famous lenders. It wasn't our thing to tell him right. Those who know about the negotiation know how the 50,000 arrived, in blood, and they became 20,000. I don't want to say any more and I won't waste any more time. I believe that it is an incision, a small revolution to relaunch the economy now that the second assessment ends. Other micropsy, other exaggeration, other news distortion! I have heard incredible things about this surplus and even tires to hear the same argument from different people for days. Symble says it's a argument that 4.1% favours him. "Hey, I said it, you may have great surpluses." How about, really, if the surplus wasn't 4.1% or 3.9% and that was 0.4%? Then we'd be the right ones? I believe this - and I finish: When I see black and the other one tells me it's white, some people may believe him for a while. For a long time no one will believe him. What is this ruthless, literally furious, opposition tactic that is chosen by the party of Officer Opposition! First of all, I want to separate my position because I have heard of an amendment. I would also like to hear the Minister about this amendment, to see how well I am, because I have seen two three parties. But that is irrelevant and it is not about what we are talking about. I repeat, therefore, that this furious opposition tactic is unfairly wronged by the party of Officerial Opposition, which is a party - and I say it and I mean it - that it has offered the place. Her leading team has chosen a large fire. Now? Still? We didn't become friends or get married. Yes, criticism and cruel! You can do it in a reliable way. I, for example, am a prisoner, you are in favour of private initiative, so there is a disagreement. More, more, more, more, more, more, more, No one's preventing us from talking diligently here. Exquisiteness has short feet and remember what I'm saying to you. Don't count on fake polls. Don't take your air brains. I can tell you again that Maranzidis fell twenty-four points out in the referendum, he fell out in the first election campaign and in the second. Contrary to this, Rujun of "Capa Research" - and I do not make advertising - wise, your friend, gave six points of difference. Don't take your air brains. A large part of the electorate, about 50%, is on hold. The world's having a bad time. To criticize us, to make us cause we're ruling with a difference. We must and people will know how the country has arrived in this situation, who has reached the country. He'll find out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u328	So do we. Mr Stylus has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u329	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the draft law entitled 'Exit mechanism, corporate debt regulation'. Ladies and gentlemen, the constant recession in the Greek economy, as we all understand, has made the out-of-court compromise imperative for businesses. The market, over the last two years, has continued to anticipate the adoption of the relevant draft legislation, thus increasing the number of indebted enterprises. As a result, this draft law brought together a record number of comments in public consultation. Why? The market considered that such serious needs and so high expectations were not covered by this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, every year after the vote on No.3869/2010, also known as 'Katelis', it is amended and debated in the Greek Parliament and, unfortunately, the problem is still getting worse and worse. It raises the question: is there any provision for consistent and honest entrepreneurs? Of course not, no regulation. Therefore, make him consistent with becoming inconsistency and inconsistency more inconsistent. Another issue is auctions. You know that most entrepreneurs, in order to be able to borrow and have capital for their businesses, have committed themselves, have put their first residence as a mortgage. Is the first residence protected by this bill? Oh, no. I call on you, even now - do so - in a clear way to define in the bill that no auction will proceed without a certificate from the competent IMO of the local area and that this is not a first place of residence. Is this bill solved the question of confiscations? That doesn't solve either. I call on you: no action to seize an irresponsible account, which is provided for in Greek legislation, without the granting of a certificate by the competent credit institutions that the account is not unconfidential. What is happening today, ladies and gentlemen? The entrepreneur is forced to prove to the court that his account is improper, so that his money can then be released, which has been committed until then, and has often been taken for debts either in insurance funds or in credit institutions. We, ladies and gentlemen, are liberal and you blame us and call us neoliberal and analgesic. You, who are this merciful state, the current state, are being borrowed by bad lenders at a rate of 1% a year and ask - the state of your own - for the debtors in the state of interest rate of 1% a month. Why don't you do the interest rate yourself? I want, ladies and gentlemen, to refer to five points in the bill. There is a question of effectiveness in the draft law as only part of the existing problem is covered by its provisions. In particular, companies must have at least one profitable use in the last three years, to be subject to its provisions. In this difficult economic situation, most of the companies need to be outside the scope of the compromise. Secondly, doctors, engineers, lawyers, free traders are also outside the scope of this compromise and for livestock loans there is no clear provision in this bill. For guarantors: You know that most businesses in Greece are small and that their relatives, brother, groom, friend have been guaranteed. You have no provision and you do not foresee any guarantees. No predictions for them. They're also bound by the poor payers and they follow them. There was a very good amendment from my colleague, as I have heard from previous speakers. Finally, compromise time is common for both small and large enterprises, and so there will be no solution for small and medium-sized enterprises. Secondly, it is a matter of substance. The compromise proposed by the bill, while being entitled to 'court', is not, because in the end it is required to be ratified by a court and, furthermore, its application is not binding. Thirdly, there is a question of whether it is possible to address the issue that the bill is dealing with, because there is no number of judges required to deal quickly with the huge volume of cases that fall under its provisions. You have not taken into account what has happened with the Katselis law. Cases by 2032 will be avenged by the Katseli Act. Last summer you voted for a provision providing that all Kaceli cases must have been completed within six months. Are they done? Why have you not taken this into account? So, we have another impossible arrangement. Fourthly, there is a question of objectivity in the bill, as the judges who will be called upon to deal with all these cases do not have the necessary economic knowledge, as well as education and training on these issues. Moreover, you are aware that the file will be received by the competent official in the first instance and not by the judge. You are therefore assigned jurisdiction by the judges to the relevant officials and we do not know to what extent their knowledge arrives and whether people can respond to what they are called to respond and which you put them under this law. Fifth and last, the question of the functionality of the bill is raised, as an electronic platform is required, which is not yet ready and is not tested. Why isn't she tested? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be out in a minute, Mr. President. Why didn't you predict it? Couldn't you have met these conditions? As you can see, after that, there is a whole question of the existence and substance of the bill and we are therefore not voting on it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u330	Mr. Consolas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u331	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have followed with great interest at the beginning of this debate arguments, ideas and proposals for a very important draft law of the Ministry of Economy, which is late in coming to the National Representation, but we have heard the rapporteurs from all the wings agree that it is very necessary and important for this bill. Mr Denkias, Mr Georgiotis from New Democracy in an exhaustive manner tabled our own proposals. However, this delay has led to a deterioration of the conditions in the real economy, which the SYRIZA - ANEL Government brings to Parliament the bill on the extrajudicial compromise, knowing that two years now have not made any legislative arrangements on this very important issue, which concerns every citizen, every Greek and every Greek from one side to another. That's the truth, otherwise. Such a bill could give oxygen to professionals and businesses, not only small but also large, to people dealing with tourism, to industry, to the agricultural primary sector, but also to the whole range of the market. It could also be possible for each of the citizens to meet the obligations if this obligation on financial institutions had been regulated in time. It would have given the businesses and the business people, who are expecting to function, despite the problems they face because of the economic crisis and, as they deserve, supported for this period by the Greek state. In other circumstances, therefore, it could reduce the risks and burdens for our banking system, as no economy can be developed without a banking system despite the proposals that we hear from various sides and colleagues that the banking system should not have been supported or supported subsequently. Such a serious and substantial bill should, at the Government's initiative, be an area of convergence of the political forces and the maximum possible consensus and cooperation with all professional and economic actors in its training and its resolution should be sought. Unfortunately, the SYRIZA - ANEL Government in its own article, but also at the outset, which was preceded by the Committee on Production and Trade, has shown that it does not calculate both the Census and the other arms of the House, as does the proposals that people have put forward in the relevant debate, from the people of business and also from the producers. The title and only "exit settlement" becomes inactive by the provisions of the bill alone, and this has made it clear, and Mr Georgantas and Mr. Dendias and Mr. Stylis have already made it clear. Because quite simply, every resolution procedure requires involvement of the court. Is that ever possible? I would remind you that in accordance with the provisions of the bill you tabled, Minister, in order to bring the agreement on the extrajudicial conciliation into force for all creditors, it is necessary to ratify it by the competent court. Which one of us thinks that many of the cases that will be joined are supposed to have a unanimous agreement on all creditors in order to need a court? Is there any of us who thinks that? The application for accession to the procedure needs twenty-five documents, attestations and certificates, while in the whole procedure there are additional bureaucratic claws. This will lead with mathematical accuracy to a huge burden of overdue business cases, which will be brought to the courts through the extrajudicial compromise, which means an extension to these loose ends. We would like to add that there will be a huge burden, which will soon become unmanageable by the courts. From there on, there are a number of provisions which actually create more problems than the draft law is supposed to solve. I am going to refer to everything we have heard about the electronic platform, which is supposed to simplify the extrajudicial conciliation procedure. We have witnessed the postponement of a relevant bill for a platform that would solve problems in tourism. We all know. I fear there will also be a postponement here, because the extrajudicial platform will not be ready. It turns out that this platform will work in the invisible future, because it is not ready today. Can you, Minister, tell us the timeline? And I hope that you will confirm what you will say about the timetable. Therefore, the bureaucratic route will be followed, since there will be no platform - we are sure of that - by collecting and filing twenty-six supporting documents. Can anyone say that this is a simplification of procedures? Secondly, an important issue, which is part of the bill, is the reasoning of the legislator for the extrajudicial compromise. What, really, is the lawmaker's thinking? To support businesses, which are essentially healthy attributes and prospects, and to assist them in order to survive. Really, is that the goal of the bill? That's obvious. That's what we'd all agree on. Your bill, however, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, actually enables them to make use of the provisions of the overcompensated and unsustainable businesses, but also of six poor payers, since there is no need to separate them. Who prevents all of these people from submitting inaccurate requests to join the mechanism, just to get time? And it is clear that this time is guaranteed through the range of bureaucratic procedures provided for in the bill. It was also assumed that the draft law would allow the possibility of adjusting the debts of companies to the banks, as well as the public and insurance liabilities. You, however, extend the rules to non-commercial loans, including debts of all kinds - in other words, the cyonet - and the worst of all is that you have a very low debt threshold of EUR 20,000, which applies to both small and large companies, while the most obvious and reasonable thing would be to separate large companies. Minister, it is useful and important for the market to have this division of small and large enterprises, because for small businesses there is no reason that the procedure should not be simplified, which should not reach the courts, but simply solve the problem. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, allow me one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u332	Please very much all and not just you, for an economy in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u333	I get it. Actually, that's how you block the system. There will be no procedure for simplifying these issues. You are therefore burdening enterprises with small debts, small businesses. Another failure of this bill is the fact that there is no provision for companies that have suspended their operation during the crisis, but have been consistent with tax and insurance obligations. Additionally, Minister, I call on you, after incorporating proposals put forward by my fellow Members from New Democracy, to see with good eyes and the people of the market, which, due to the closure of cooperative banks, were literally on the sidelines. It is useful, even now, to reduce red loans, which is not achieved with the content of this bill, but the opposite is the case. I would like to wish at the end of this day that we should be in the direction that we are asking for. But until we see it, we cannot support this bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u334	Thank you. Mr. Cavadas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u335	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with two years' delay, you are today bringing to the vote a bill on the extrajudicial mechanism, when the real economy is at stake, now that it is shown that with your policy you have completely dismantled the market. Because today, those businesses that have remained in the country are trying to survive in conditions of unprecedented economic suffocation. Anyone who has an elementary contact with the market understands that it is almost impossible for a company to remain profitable and survive within this economic framework that you have created. How can a company, after the harsh, almost punishing taxation that you have imposed, following the increases in insurance contributions and in the funds, by the increases in VAT burdened on the final product and services, with the capital controls that remain, with consumers, employees and pensioners, who have seen their available income deplete and with citizens limiting their consumption, even in the absolutely essential, because of the enormous insecurity they feel about the future? With your policy, they cannot stand on their feet, even healthy businesses. They cannot, when 70% of their profits have to pay for taxes and insurance contributions. The way you go, this policy will leave nothing standing. Even healthy businesses will be forced to close or move out of borders, as thousands of businesses have already done. The figures testify to the tragic situation in which you have led the real economy. Since the beginning of the year, ninety businesses have been closing down every day. According to GATT, eighteen and a half thousand businesses will be forced to close in the first half of 2017, due to their debts, lack of liquidity and uncertainty, creating a new huge wave of unemployment, leaving thirty-four thousand people on the road with no job. In the second half of 2016, several other companies closed down in the second half of 2016. Red loans are increasing, because of the conditions you have created on the market. In fact, since the beginning of the year, EUR 1.5 billion has been redundant, 80% of which have been set. And the insecurity of the citizens is growing. In the first quarter of 2017 3.5 billion euros of deposits have been wings from the banks, which are now certain they will never come back. At the same time, the first two months of 2017 saw a huge increase in IRS debt seizures for debts over 500 euros in salaries, pensions, rent, savings, and even real estate. An indication is that in February alone over twenty - one thousand seizures were made, that is, almost a thousand seizures per day. The tax suffocation is getting worse by the fact that VAT refunds to enterprises are pending, public debts to private individuals are growing, development law is not being activated, the NRP has frozen and no foreign investor is seriously thinking of investing in the country. You have no credibility as a government. Nobody trusts you either inside or outside the country. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, while you know the situation, have been delaying your evaluation for fourteen months, maintaining this uncertainty. Finally, the new account you bring us is heavy for both society and the economy. You are bringing us a fourth memorandum, which clearly has your signature, the seal of your own policy. You are about to vote on new measures, new pension cuts and a reduction in the tax-free threshold, even below EUR 6,000, two more red lines, which you had theoretically, and were easily violated in order to be able to remain in power. You should be aware that we are in no way going to support the results of your own policy and vote for whatever measures you bring to Parliament. You take it, you take responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, with the same care you are trying, and with this bill, to resolve a real problem, that of regulating the debts of businesses, but, in fact, this law will remain inapplicable. Let me make the following remarks in the bill. Firstly, you are not building an out-of-court settlement mechanism, because in fact the final compromise must be ratified by the courts. In other words, you are loading even greater administrative burdens in the primary courts, which will be impossible to manage the volume of cases, which will reach them. You're telling us that they're potentially the beneficiaries of four hundred thousand businesses in red. What if half of them file an application? Have you calculated how many years the first instances will take to decide on two hundred thousand businesses? Secondly, there is an automated application procedure, but the relevant electronic platform of the Private Debt Management Secretariat is not even ready. And as the experts have said in the committee responsible, it will take at least twelve months to prepare the electronic system. And you insist that everything will be ready in three months, which is impossible. Until then, it is proposed that applications be lodged in regional units. In other words, you'll invite businessmen to gather twenty-five documents, build up in the tails and go through nineteen stages of process. Believe me, the chaos you're going to create will be worse than what you've done with the FBI. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, please, just one more minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u336	No, Mr. Colleague, you used a huge part of your speech that had nothing to do with the bill. Put a perfect one on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u337	You've given everyone. Give me a minute, Mr President. Thirdly, there is an opportunity for efficient management of red loans, which is a precondition for the recovery of the market and no sustainable solution is offered to the businesses that are struggling to stand up. Ladies and gentlemen, in order for the extrajudicial compromise to succeed, it must really be an extrajudicial and not a judicial compromise. It needs to get away from existing tools, away from abusive practices, such as the procedure referred to in Article 99, to ensure the participation of creditors. Above all, any interventions in support of the people suffering must be comprehensive and enforceable in order to have positive results. Unfortunately, this bill does not meet these conditions. Enterprises, because of their clandestineness, are not saved. On the contrary, they lead to new adventures, new suffering and no result. The New Democracy is therefore voting against this bill. Mr President, thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u338	Mr Panayotaros, Parliamentary Representative of the Golden Dawn, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin on the bill, I should like to mention and agree with what Mr Xydakis said about today. I also agree with the conclusion of the Committee on the Respect for German Compensations. Of course, here we have made a comment from the outset - those who have participated in this committee since the Golden Dawn - that very simply this committee you have to throw ashes into the eyes of the world. Because in particular, for the part of the committee, which has something to do with the mortgage loan, things are very simple. You could put it in the budget as an income and start claiming it, so that you could embarrass Germany. We are the only country in which it has not repaid the forced mortgage and tens of thousands of euros may invade after court, but not only, a struggle with the funds of the Greek state. Money, which could also fall in the primary sector, in the development of the economy, and in what you say, you are referring, but of course you have done nothing about it. For this bill: The non-judicial corporate debt settlement. A very charming title, as it sounds, that makes it feel like it's going to help. That's why they hang themselves from this bill, from its vote or not - well or badly, we'll be talking down - hundreds of thousands of businessmen Greeks, free professionals, who are actually destroyed, too many of them have stopped any business they have done, some of them have collapsed, others have killed themselves, others have left abroad, others are looking for work, a piece where they find hundreds of thousands of remaining businessmen to calculate when the hundred 20 instalments will be voted on, without looking at the prerequisites. Nothing. All they care about - and it sounds reasonable, when they are drowning - is how they manage - at least so they think - to regulate the huge debts that have been created, especially the years of the memoranda. The conditions for going into this extrajudicial compromise, as well as the thousands of previous and current government obligations, of the three memoranda voted by all of you and the fourth Memorandum that comes from the information in the next few days - now how you baptize it is of no importance, the essence - will make this draft law impossible and very shortly inactive. Because those who manage to subject themselves to this extrajudicial compromise will pay one, two, three instalments and then collapse. Because there are not enough conditions, even very difficult, for someone to join in this extrajudicial compromise. Because it is not enough for a free professional, who also owes Michals, who say - he owes everywhere, whoever cooperates whether he is a public or a private body. There are other things to do with the general picture of the market. For example, VAT goes up and we have one of the highest in Europe. Taxes go up all the time. And we will not now enter the process of reading the dozens of new taxes that SYRIZA has brought to them to the hundreds of taxes brought by New Democracy, PASOK, DIMAR, Karatzaferis and others in the years of the memorandum. Operational costs are constantly rising. We just heard these days - you've all heard and know it - about huge increases. We don't have to hear it, because when PPC's account comes, you see it. Because quite simply, those who run PPC are probably incapable. Those who give orders from the European Union that PPC should be literally dispersed are also incompetent. "The marble" of any social policy - as you say - we pay all Greeks through PPC's accounts. Insurance contributions are also increased, in most of the free professions. How then will all these people be able to pay the hundred and twenty instalments and the monthly instalment, but also all these costs that are called on to pay daily with a bureaucracy that does not go ahead and helps nothing? Just in the last few months, we have passed a number of development laws, which have just been passed, to have been passed, and not to have any practical practice at all. There will be many applications for this bill, most of which will certainly be rejected. This is because a strict condition of subjection is to have even a profitable use over the last three years. But, here those involved in free trade, they were or are businessmen in some way, they know that the profitable business is now in the dropper and we're looking to find them with the chalk. So here's a first condition that's gonna fly out a lot of business. The requirement to conclude a arrangement after 1 July 2016 also prohibits the inclusion of undertakings in the extrajudicial compromise, since the vast majority of them have more than one arrangement on the above date. The same is true of a creditor not bringing together 85% of the total requirements of an enterprise, since, in normal practice, small and medium-sized enterprises in particular chose only one creditor for their lending. Furthermore, another issue which is to be discussed: to different creditors having borrowings was once again ten banks. Right now there are three of them and tomorrow they'll be two. So in different credit institutions they would have had obligations, gathered and accumulated in two, three specific ones. Also, a terrible thorn, which unfortunately lives and reigns in our own country, is the bureaucratic process, which is anticipated and will lead to great delays in the practical implementation of this extrajudicial regulation. The few companies that will eventually be able to join the extrajudicial mechanism will be faced with and with the procedural procedure, which is laid down as compulsory for the ratification of an agreement between the debtor and the creditors. Let's not forget that by law, Katseli, more than a hundred thousand cases are pending. Dates of judgment have been laid down until 2032. Many will have died by then, while many others will not know where they might be. All of this, with mathematical accuracy, will lead to huge time delays, as we have said, and will accumulate additional problems. We see that in this bill, the guarantor - we know, in most cases, how a guarantor was being given a loan - is considered to be a contributor to the substance. It is also a very serious reason that many companies will not be able to enter into this extrajudicial compromise. Classes of free professionals, such as farmers, farmers, fishermen and others, will not be subjected to them. We heard the Parliamentary Representative of Independent Greeks say whether they have a book of revenue and expenditure. We know very well what is going on with these accusations of people. We are not talking about some multinational, which has fish farms. We are talking about simple fishermen, stockfarmers, scooters and others. You ask them for some supporting documents, which, of course, did not have them, at least for the previous years. Really, why is it that those who owe less than EUR 20,000, which is a very large number of private entrepreneurs that should be owed to credit institutions and others, do not fall under them? We have heard some Members of Parliament say that it will be taken into account and that, although the bill does not provide for it, it will also be done at an informal level. With a lot of seriousness, you are dealing with such serious issues. Another thing: With the fine letters of the new bank agreement, we all know for years that by thousands of judicial decisions these fines in the banks are for drawings of previous loans, which were illegal and abusive. There are these decisions which are final at the expense of the banks, in favour of the borrowers. What about them? What about the first residence? What about the irresponsible account? Don't listen to some people who tell you that with some procedures there could be an improper account. There's no such thing as an inconvenience to business account. That's what's happening. Ask out on the street to tell you what's going on. There are too many people who are obliged to put the so-called POS, who are now the only object of the banks. In other words, we recapitalised the banks with guarantees from the Greek State of EUR 240 billion up to the years of the memorandum and recapitalisations of tens of billion euros in the years of the memorandum - more than 300 billion in total, which the Greek people were charged with - to make various fraudulent bankers their wrong moves. And we got to the point, the banks are right now the only object they have to be about how to put POS and how they have many shapes and sizes to satisfy everyone's tastes, as they say in their ads. But let us assume that the conditions and conditions of this bill - which are not - were ideal for the extrajudicial compromise. In the general economic situation of our country, which is constantly going on, more and more toward the disaster, I do not think there will be any saving. Let one succeed in collecting papers, overcoming bureaucracy, going through the judiciary, getting everything done and subjecting himself to it, when all the wider business framework in our home country is living, when everything is negative, when competition from Bulgaria, Croatia, Romania, England, Luxembourg, Malta and elsewhere, is much more ideal, how can it do something? He won't be able to do anything at all. All these benefits would be wiped out. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need two minutes of my dentistry, Mr. President. We have heard some of the previous speakers, particularly of the coup d'état, referring to the institutions and everyone has said positive words, in part, as well as necessary. There is also one entity that came, which was from the Borrowing and Consumer Protection Association of Northern Greece, who said some truths that were mentioned and founded on the laws of the Greek state regarding banks. Because banking institutions, trying to cover their own dishonesty and irregularities over all these decades, have created black holes in their funds, have in the past increased the debts of businesses and have been providing valuable credits in many cases, in the form of not only of business loans, but also of consumer, repair or housing loans, credit cards, and now they are on their way to demand the exclusion of these loans from the extra-judicial compromise. And why is that so? As we have said, from the multiple recapitalisations they managed to raise the money and do not make any corrective moves. The positions of thousands of borrowers were formulated in detail and on legal grounds, based on judicial decisions. We have mentioned as Golden Dawn many times in the past here, within the Greek Parliament and elsewhere, that it is more than two thousand in the number of all kinds of loans for borrowers. And the worst thing is not that there are these decisions. The worst is that the Greek state does not apply the Constitution, as Article 95(5) states, which says that final court rulings are automatically considered as state law and that the state should move in this direction. What does it say in a few words? They could have taken all these final court rulings in favour of borrowers and automatically become state law and not seashore and fighting alone Greek citizens either as business, as business or as units. That's what he says in a few words. What was also found in this bill is that it legalises the illegality of the banks. It does not have the limits on banks and does not consider, depending on the company's viability, what the borrower may pay. Otherwise, it's the same as L.4224/2013. The only different thing he does is simply that he determines the remuneration of intermediaries and that he determines who will be the special private debt management secretary. You could also apply for the hundreds of thousands of Greek free professionals who are currently struggling and struggling to subject themselves to and join the bill in question, do what you did for the various sea loans, as the National Bank for Clergy Chania of Mr.Mitsotakis did, where he had given him something hundreds of thousands of euros as a loan, never demanded them back and when this lovitour was revealed, made him a settlement, which could be the ideal one that exists throughout the world. Half of them were applying this arrangement to the freelance professionals, they would all be very satisfied. The same could, of course, be done for the millions of euros that New Democracy and PASOK owes, and you're supposed to have settled them, in some ways funny, of course. This money, which is the money of the Greek people, will never be paid back. You could also apply what you did with the Music Hall. And unfortunately, within and out of import, and the current rulers, who suddenly loved the Congregation of Music, the left proletariat in whatever form, and with constant efforts, legislative arrangements - other than the window that they go to bring - are trying to see how the hundreds of millions of euros owed by the Congregation of Music are going to give up, or to make some agreements like "FRAPORT", where we suddenly see that this company, which, with the revenues of one year that the airports would have had - that was the price on the substance - started to pay for special fees and taxes, 5 500% more, I think an increase in the atrocious lines, something such paranoid and crazy figures. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, who came out here in Stepma and you speak as a Civic Anti-Civilisation and bet you what SYRIZA - ANEL is doing, you are the same co-responsible, because you ruled before them, you have voted for all the Memorandums together, with what that implies, and you are not entitled to move the finger, once again. If you wanted to help all the free professionals of all categories, you could do much of the above, as we said, to reduce VAT, to have them an irresponsible account...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u340	Please, your second language is over.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u341	I'll be 30 seconds, Mr. President. Allow me. They're not sluts. They ask you to have an unreasonable account, an account from the POS to keep the state a small percentage and the rest to keep it so that they can move their businesses, because if there is no business, then the state will not collect anything at all. In the end - to say some things - give some loans. I don't know, some heinous dictatorial regimes gave up loans in the past. It's done twice. In any case, I shall refer quickly to the amendments. We are opposed to the two amendments. I will also make a quick comment on this photographic amendment, which Mr Dimitriadis, too, has come to the point of justifying. To tell us only what company this amendment is, which is the second time they bring it and try to go through it with a number of very horrendous and funny amendments. The Golden Dawn will declare "residents" in this bill. We're saying it's not the most ideal thing, but when hundreds of thousands of people hang on to it anyway, we can't deprive them of that hope until something much better comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u342	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u343	How long will it take, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u344	About ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u345	The Minister for Economy and Development, Mr. Municipality of Papadimitriou, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u346	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to answer a few questions that have been raised and also to address myself to Mr Demetriades' amendment. As you know, the bill comes to the House after a tough negotiation with the institutions and after consultation with involved parties, including banks and other bodies. The amendments tabled by the Democratic Assent, Mr Theocharis and Mr Karras cannot be accepted. One question that happened, it was how long the process would take. We estimate that the normal procedure will not take more than three months, it will not exceed three months. Mr. Georgiadis asked what are the motives of this bill, the extrajudicial mechanism. It is a lot of motives, but I will confine myself to two, which I mentioned in my position. It is the coordination of all creditors at the same table, which is not an easy case. And secondly, the bill enables each creditor to have a full picture of the assets and liabilities of each debtor. It has been said - I do not know who said it and I apologise for that - that the banks finance the platform. The banks do not finance the platform. They finance a study on the extrajudicial mechanism and how to use the platform. The platform has started to be built since last August and we think that when the bill comes for implementation after three months, we will be ready. There has been a question about the number of enterprises to be integrated into the mechanism. I shall refer to Mr Kavathas of GSEW, who has estimated that it will be four hundred thousand businesses. The truth, however, is that one cannot accurately capture how many viable overdue companies will be integrated into the mechanism. However, the Private Debt Management Special Secretariat informs us that they will be thousands of businesses. I would also like to emphasise what Mr Papachristopoulos said about farmers, that most farmers keep books of revenue and expenditure and therefore fall under this bill. The question has also been raised as to what is going to happen with business loans in a foreign currency. Foreign currency corporate loans are part of the mechanism. Banks may not want to join, but join. The Minister of Justice has assured us that the next bill he will submit to the House will also contain the provision for the protection of bank and government officials. I will not go into Mr Dendia, who said that the bill was written in English, came from abroad and was translated here. It was kind of different. We wrote it in Greek and English to send it to the institutions. Finally, I want to talk about Mr Dimitriadis' amendment. A great deal has been said about this amendment, that it is photographic for some, and that there is suspicion, that there is corruption. I don't know anything about it, and I don't suspect. I heard his position very carefully and read the explanatory statement to the amendment. And based on them, I accept...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u347	Aren't you ashamed? Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u348	You're very welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u349	You'll raise your hand one by one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u350	Quiet!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u351	Aren't you ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u352	Well, Minister, you have something else to add.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u353	No, I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u354	Thank you. Mr. Beyalas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u355	Oh, no. I'm asking for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u356	Mr. Beyalas has the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u357	I am speaking as a parliamentary representative under the Rules of Procedure, reacting to the position of the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u358	You'll get after the speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u359	You'll raise your hand and vote for one by one!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u360	Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u361	Please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u362	It should also calm down the House. We're talking about the extrajudicial mechanism of debited businesses. The title says a lot. There's a need, that is, to bring in a bill of this kind. Is the need now? Clearly, no. Why was this large volume of indebted enterprises created? Was it created today? Clearly, no. Where does that need come from? From the country's bankruptcy. When did the country go bankrupt? We all know that. In 2008-2009. Why did the country go bankrupt? We know that again. Who were they commanding when the country went bankrupt? And that's what I think is known to the Greek people. So, today in this bill we're talking about, people who publish that they want to help, they can't take their tail out. They cannot say 'we do not vote'. But what do we do? Civic Opposition and, in general, Opposition - most importantly, Civic Opposition - is only chaos. Whatever's going on in this country, because SYRIZA's running, it's just chaos. Destroy everything. And we come to see Civic Opposition, which publishes itself as the liberal party, the party that wants entrepreneurship, that business wants to operate and help businesses, do what? To come against a law that will help businesses! In any case, if there are some uncertainties or some things that would like a correction within this bill, there would be a positive contribution from Anti-Population to come and say yes, we support the bill. But they must happen one, two, three things, helping on philosophy and law, but also his articles. So who's got ideological claws? We who bring a bill with an extrajudicial mechanism to help businesses or those who are voting against this bill? But is this ideological struggling or the usual practice of Officer Response all these years they have been ruling? Is the New Democracy in favour of the private sector, or is it not? It is in favour of state-owned enterprises, in favour of state-owned entrepreneurship. Why? Because it aims to close all small and medium-sized enterprises in order to strengthen the oligopoly and the monopolies, the large chains. That is the aim, they serve and therefore they cannot accept a bill, which can include a very small and medium-sized enterprise to see a white day, helping. They told us, still here, that there was the framework. Mr Denkias told us that 'yes, we went to do it, but we were not able to complete it'. And he told us that he didn't complete it, because Hardouvelis didn't let him - it seemed a little strange to me, of course, but it's a serious confession - and the law stayed in the middle and they didn't go ahead with him. So while you were seeing the necessity, you did not have the courage and the daring to go ahead with it. On the other hand, however, you only include one part. And we have his confession that this bill is a holistic bill, which includes all the obligations of a business. Why not help it and not support this bill? Ladies and gentlemen, the issue is one. You believed, in January 2015, when SYRIZA came out, winning the elections again in September 2015 that the "left parenthesis" would be of some months. Finally, a few months ago, we went for six months, we went for a year, a year and a half, two years. But because the evaluation will be closed and because the economy has very positive forecasts, that's what you don't like. You are concerned that this government will not fall in the next quarter in the next six months. It'll take four years. But it's not just what you're worried about. You are concerned that the exhaustion of the four-year period will come with very positive returns for the economy. You, the lovers of the private economy, have heard you say nothing lately about the Stock Exchange, for which we do not have any particular concerns. Nevertheless, the fact that he has a last shotgun increase has reached more than seven hundred units, I have not heard you say it, and if for some time he falls two units, you do a whole festival and you yell out. As regards, of course, the details of ELSTAT and Eurostat, I remember in December 2016, and also in December 2015, where we discussed the budget to which I was rapporteur, all of us listened to the New Democracy saying: "The budget is not going to be implemented, it will be a deficit, it will be a materialist, you will not achieve it". Now that it is proven by evidence, not only from ELSTAT, but also Eurostat that the surplus will be 4.2%, you turned the bell. You say: “You have a lot of surplus. This one was wrong here." Gentlemen, you must be clear. Finally, will you blame us for something we can't achieve? When we do that, you will have to reward us, not blame us, and when you anticipate that we cannot achieve something, but we do it, again accuse us of being wrong. In these two years, however, what have we become accustomed to in New Democracy? We're used to screaming, sloganing and catastrophe. Where do the screams and slogans come from? They stem from the uncertainty, from your fear that, in the end, this government will not be a left-wing parentheses. And that's where another matter comes in. There is a political issue. You have a strategy problem, you have a story problem, you have a problem with opposition. Because the negotiation will be closed, you see. And it'll close with the best omens. You can see that. And the debt will be settled. You told us that it was sustainable, but it is not sustainable, but it will be regulated and made sustainable. That's what you're worried about. And all this worries you, namely, that this government and the next elections will be present and will also have the positive response of the citizens. That's what you're worried about. Let's get one more thing straight. You spoke about the Prime Minister, who said that if the debt is not set, we will not implement the measures. I'm sorry, do you know a few laws that have been passed and have not been implemented? Here is the state, here is the responsible government, which, since the debt is not regulated, may not apply the measures.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u363	Mr. Beyala, your time is up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u364	I'll finish in thirty seconds. As far as the adoption of the measures is concerned, L.4172/2013 was implemented in its tax declaration and especially for farmers in 2015. And say one that was not implemented by the same law, which the SYRIZA Government itself did not apply? It was your law. Subsidies, which were part of the gross income of farmers and were taxed from the first euro, were made by us with EUR 12,000 tax-free.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u365	Mr. Beyala, it's over. You got all the issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u366	I'm closing, Mr. President. I want to make a point to the Minister. You said there was going to be a re-establishment of the closed operations. I want to ask the following question. What will be the year of interruption? Is there a year of interruption? Or regardless of the year of interruption, what will be the three-year period to be included? I think that should be clarified. I do not know if they are specified in the legislative improvement. And what will the three-year-olds have and the profitable use of one to join? That's a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u367	Please, Mr. Beyala, it's over time!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u368	With regard to the impunity for bank managers we're talking about, it's coming in the next 15 days. There must be insurance, Minister, so as not to help the lombs and the 'lombs' of some people. Ladies and gentlemen, the law creates hope. It takes as soon as possible, Minister. The law needs to work immediately, because the market expects and hopes. It will be important - what the banks appreciate - that of these four hundred thousand who will get in can actually deliver a 35% to 40%. It's tens of thousands of businesses. It will indeed be a great donation of the economy. It'll be an important step to move on to growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u369	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u370	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u371	Mr President, I have a right to the Rules of Procedure after the Minister has been placed, to ask the Bureau for two minutes. Thank you. Minister, I have three issues. The first issue is about time. You answered, three months. Thank you for the answer. Of course, I asked you how much time the Minister counts, he appreciates the Ministry that it will take to get the whole thing going. I didn't ask when your law would start. I don't know about the quarter that you responded to, what one of the two is concerned with. Well, the time clock says. If you are kind, say until the end of the meeting what you said about the quarter. It is relevant to start-up time in relation to the platform, etc. Or a time drive...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u372	Second one.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u373	The second? Yes, sir. So we have a clue to appreciate our positive or negative criticism in future. Secondly, you did not say anything about what was proposed to you in many respects about the abolition or other regulation of the judicial ratification of the extrajudicial compromise. If you said something, it didn't fall into my sense. But I think you didn't say. Colleagues who support the draft law, referring to the stakeholders' debate, talked about Mr Crokydi and Mr Michalos. These people had said 'yes' and the legislation on the abolition of authorisations. And as I said in my speech, this legislation does not apply a year later. In this regard, over and above these two people, why should they have a negative attitude when it comes to resolving a matter? They're not lawmakers. The government's intention is to comment positively - there is Mr Karamouzis, who, in the light of the decision of the extrajudicial compromise with the type of decision of the multi-judgmental court, told you not to do this because it is timely. Or even - something that is very serious - if you are going to accept it, that time should go at the same time, that the extrajudicial compromise should not be delayed. That's good. There is, of course, our opinion, but also Mr Athanasios - if I have heard him well - which says that you could go to justice, if you wish - although you do not have to - but, in any case, ask the President to decide by action. There's no need to be a court trial for a multi-dimensional court order. This is a reason for delay. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more minute, Mr President. The third point concerns the amendment. I, when Mr Kegeroglu raised the matter, was surprised. I did not know what is behind this amendment. All the sites, however, are now being informed of a debate that had taken place last year in a very intense manner. I didn't happen to be here. It concerns a specific businessman or more. Tell us - let the rapporteur - who is concerned about. Does he have a picture? Secondly, why does the government not take responsibility for it - we propose it to do so - for it to bring about the regulation itself, with a report from the General Accounting Office of the State, so that you know that this House is properly informed and that this House is responding to or not responding? You have to take responsibility. You're hiding behind a congressman? Finally, how much money is that gonna lose the public? It's about fines, money sentences from smuggling. How much money is that? Mr President, we shall make a proposal for a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u374	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u375	You'll raise your hands, whoever you vote for, one, and your name will be here! Bubbies here won't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u376	Please, Mr. Loverdo!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u377	Please! Let's get it over with!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u378	We are all well aware of the meaning of the roll-call vote. Time's up.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u379	One phrase and I'm done. If the government does not do that, it is completely exposed. Cobbles that have some purpose in both communications and the media through such arrangements will not pass through the House, at least without taking not only the responsibility, but also the shame.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u380	Because Mr. Loverdos has announced something, if that happens, to manage the time and make the roll-call vote timely.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u381	It will be done whenever necessary, Mr President. As provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u382	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u383	Here you go, Mr. Karathanasopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u384	Mr President, by using my right as a parliamentary representative, following the position of the Minister, I will speak only about this amendment very soon. I told you, Minister, and in my speech that since this is a serious matter and wants to deal with this amendment, let us bring it under the normal procedure as a ministerial arrangement, so that there can be just one from this regulation and the assessment of the State's General Accountancy. Are there any casualties? Aren't there any casualties? What losses are those for the public? Who benefit from this arrangement if some benefit? Otherwise, a very bad environment is being formed. Why do we say that? Because the government must not only be - if it is - honest, but it must also be seen. And with this kind of method, Minister, not only do you not seem honest, but on the contrary, you are creating the field to develop any perceptions and opinions, whether existing or not. In this respect, we are once again telling you to withdraw the amendment, not to accept it and to come in accordance with the normal procedure. In my village they say "clean sky, lightnings are not afraid". With such drunkenness, you seem to be afraid not only of lightning, but also of brilliance of leaves.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u385	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u386	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u387	Mr. Amyras has the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u388	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we were here with Mr. Carras and we were breaking our heads where we have seen this amendment before. So last year, you were not here in this Chamber - again at night, there was a corresponding parliamentary amendment, and then there was some evidence of who it was about, that is, some companies that have fuel warehouses in northern Greece. So we tell you, "One thief, two thieves," three, and smuggled us from smuggling fuel. So we, as Potami, withdraw this amendment or now tell us which companies are involved and what is the amount that the Greek State will lose from the charge.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u389	All right, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u390	Wait a minute, Mr. President. What's okay? We are talking about the smuggling fuel, which this government is supposed to have in its first year, would have brought from the fight against certain taxes of a billion euros. And here you go and get us the rest? So we went for wool and we went out ragged? Remove it, Minister, or go up to the Step and tell us what companies it is about and how much money the state will lose from the non-trafficking of and the legalisation of the fuel smuggling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u391	Mr Meikopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u392	Thank you very much, Mr President. But it's really awesome. If one pays attention to their position, dear colleagues from the opposition, I think it will be surprised if one finds that their rhetoric concerns a Greece that was suddenly created on 26 January 2015. Until then, there was no public administration, no taxation, no loans, no banks, nothing. It's really awesome, and I can't understand this rhetoric and that narrative. With regard to this bill, I think that both our rapporteur and the Minister, but also colleagues from the Co-Police, have properly analysed its articles and provisions, so I will try to get a little codified and very briefly to give its substance to it in a short time. First of all, before I speak on the substance, you will allow me to make three first comments. I'm listening to the charge of sluggishness from the Officer's colleagues. I think they had their chance. There was a certain law in the past. Fifty-four were the undertakings subject to this scheme. It's only three sorted out. I hear the argument that it is not an out-of-court compromise, but in fact, as long as the cases first stand, this is a judicial compromise. I call on colleagues from the Officerial Representation to describe a way in which the agreement of all the Contracting Parties will be binding and will have legal ratification. Since, therefore, there are no appeals, these assumptions will be quickly settled. A third comment is the following. I hear the last time and journalists and colleagues from the opposition constantly using a chip that private debt, in other words Greek citizens' money, amounts to EUR 94 billion. I imagine that no one in this Chamber is naïve to believe that 94 billion euros have been created over the last two years. Obviously, these are the results of concrete choices, political choices, and there are specific political responsibilities. Regarding, now, with this draft law, I think it is a very important and comprehensive intervention precisely to regulate the private debt that has been suffocating the market in recent years. It is therefore about debts to banks, public, large suppliers and insurance funds. What, codes, is the strategic objective? On the one hand, the rescue of viable businesses and, on the other, the safeguarding of jobs. So with this extrajudicial mechanism there is a total negotiation of the debtor with all creditors at the same table. For the first time, the debtor will submit proposals to the creditors, and they will in turn be counter-proposals, but the final decision to belong to the undertaking which he owes. I think the key point is that the settlement of debts, ladies and gentlemen, will not be done on the basis of the size of the company and its debts, but on the basis of the real ability of the company to repay its debts and continue to operate on a sustainable basis. So what can be achieved for the debtor with the extrajudicial mechanism? Very code numbers: Genuine interest rate reductions, prolongations of repayment period and even write-offs of debts under conditions. What are the possibilities, friends and friends of colleagues, for making an extrajudicial compromise to the economy? On the one hand, the possibility for banks to improve their balance sheets by reducing their red loans, on the other hand, the possibility of improving revenues by reducing their maturities and, finally, there is a significant breath of liquidity on the market through the payment of suppliers. I think that in the implementation part, with regard to the time-limits for implementing this legislative initiative, there will already be two new offices for informing and serving borrowers in Athens and Piraeus, in the coming weeks in the capital cities of all the regions of the country and in the summer there will be universal application throughout the country as well. This is a very good regulation. I think that if there are scope for legislative improvements, we will be here in the next few years to settle these too. That's all very coded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u393	Thank you for managing time too. Mrs Kafantaris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u394	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about a bill that the commercial and business world has long been waiting for, and I think it will see today and realize that those who play it - let me - 'protectors' of entrepreneurship and the private sector, this bill is being voted against, a bill that is trying to give life to healthy entrepreneurship. I understand the opposition and the New Democracy very well, and I understand the embarrassment that they are in and the crisis, because we see that the agreement with the lenders is going to be going ahead with completion, we see that the assessment is going to be carried out immediately. Here I would like to say that the government, in its policy, the policy of combating tax evasion, smuggling, etc., has brought revenue to the Greek public and the Greek people, with the sacrifices they have made over these years, has again brought the overall result of this serious primary surplus, which was a strong negotiating paper, so that we can proceed with the completion of the evaluation. Domestic Cassandras - I am talking about the Opposition and, in particular, the Civic Opposition - have been denied at the moment, saying that the evaluation, the issue of 'elections', should leave Tsipras. We have heard all that too much. I would also like to say here, ladies and gentlemen, on the press today, what happened in the European Parliament. When we discussed the course of the completion of the evaluation, once again the New Democracy and PASOK MEPs questioned the figures in relation to the primary surplus mentioned by Mr Moschovisi and Mr Düzeblum and a serious debate took place. Here, then, I would like to say that you are indeed, gentlemen of the New Democracy, in a difficult position, perhaps in a strategic deadlock, because first and foremost, ensuring and completing the evaluation, and with the agreement, there will be a clear time for the government to go ahead with completing its electoral commitment to the fight against corruption, interlocutory, has something to do with the examinations that will show us why we have entered into this policy of the memorandum. The government has voted, ladies and gentlemen, by the Greek people to get the country out of this crisis and the comitology and to stand the society up and, of course, to move to the development of this country. But is it the situation that we are experiencing both in the economy and in entrepreneurship, for celebrations? Clearly I will answer 'no'. But basically what seems to be a strand of hope now and with the completion of the evaluation, we must move on to the rise in creativity and growth. Is the situation in the commercial world exceptional? No one will say 'yes'. Indeed, the situation is difficult and has been particularly burdened, and we have arrived here today since the four years of 2010-2014 and now have had a total of seven years of crisis. But at last there is a bill, which is actually trying to be a tool for debt regulation, which actually acts as a hindrance to growth and business activity. This draft law enables the debtor to be the focus of the debt negotiation himself. The banks no longer have the main reason, as they used to. It is important, as this out-of-court mechanism is a single procedure in which creditors, business and intermediary sit down to find a solution. This is essentially another philosophy. Everyone will seek the best. But the main thing is that the operation of the operation continues. It continues to offer the economy the company that had these unbearable debts. There are still no workers' redundancies, and of course, as we said at the outset, healthy businesses are at the centre. But what I would like to stress is the other quality of this government's policy and function. There's been a serious consultation. The Committee on Production and Trade has been consulted with operators, which were too many of them from the trading world - and we know that - both from the EU and from GATT. He said that this is a last chance for businesses in a communication by the ESS and many of these comments were taken into consideration by the relevant Minister and appeared in the bill that we are debating today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In conclusion, I would like to say this: it gives me the impression that Critical Opposition insists on observations from the bill, which have been answered and many have been included in the law. I would like to say to Mr Dendia that he actually did his self-criticism and said today 'the law which I had drafted as head of Minister'. At the same time the New Democracy comes and says to us: 'Why do you not go ahead with this law and do you not vote for it?' We, the government, took responsibility for this legislation because we care about entrepreneurship. We are interested in the small and medium-sized enterprises, which is the backbone of the Greek economy, which can contribute to the productive reconstruction of the country which is the main concern. But I'll close the way I started. We are heard and judged by many entrepreneurs who see who really cares about entrepreneurship. And the bad states of SYRIZA, as we are accused of, take real measures and responsibility for actually boosting healthy entrepreneurship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u395	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that our meeting is being attended by the above Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the Chamber "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how the House is organized and operated, thirty-four students and students and seven educational sessions from the 3rd Elementary School of Stavroupolis Thessaloniki. The House welcomes them. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Mrs Triantafel has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u396	Ladies and gentlemen, some time ago there was a position by the PASOK Parliamentary Representative. In all fairness, a differentiation - and a strong one - for any amendment, for any bill. It is unthinkable, however, that there should be such expressions as 'poor'. Will you tell me that other expressions have been heard, that I am standing in the 'poor' that has been heard? But it's important. Who thinks it's Mr. Loverdos and every Mr. Loverdos in here? We've all been judged by Mr. Loverdos and we. Of course we're strangers to Mr. Loverdos. However, it is truly incomprehensible - and we all hear it as nothing is happening - to see a behaviour that touches inappropriateness. It is a bad man who likes to embarrass others, and I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we may say things and be very serious - and we do well - on the political side, but such expressions are incomprehensible. I think each of you should see it and be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u397	So now you are doing your self-criticism for 2015, 2016, for what you were saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u398	Mr Amyras, firstly, I did not interrupt you at all when you spoke, secondly, I have no problem with self-criticism. And since you're asking, I'm going to tell you straight away that I'm not sorry about anything. I am one of the people who insist that there are no one-ways and that there are no one-ways here, and that it is clear and narrow that there are no one-ways. The only path that I accept is the struggle that everyone has to do individually and collectively in order to change their position. Let's go down. Some points on the bill, but before we go to the bill, since we are talking about the current state of the country - and I think that all colleagues, despite the different approaches, have mentioned it - we should think about what our strategic options should be. Strategic selection and objective is to develop and strengthen sustainable and small and medium-sized enterprises that have and must have an important and catalytic role in the new development model, with key features being fair and sustainable development. In the past, there has been a vicious circle of recession and austerity that horrificly destroyed small and medium-sized enterprises and this disaster in turn created another recession and another austerity. Memorandums are not only some economic measures taken by governments, they are attempting to adjust and reclassify capital in the middle and through other geopolitical developments, tensions and even wars many times. The current legislation is only a single point - not the only one - of interventions and initiatives that are necessary for production-based development, initiatives that have to do with the creation of specific and alternative financial instruments. And I am referring specifically to most opposition parties and major opposition parties, and not only - probably we have been filled with consumer standards rather than investment for so many years. I imagine you all read BSE papers. So what does BSE say? I read a communication today. It says that all these 'golden' years, the well-being of loans without production, the destruction of production, without proper distribution, was wasted on some and not on the people of distribution and injustice, what did it bring? It brought the lowest investments in Greece from 2000 to 2009 compared to Europe. From 2000, I'm saying again, until 2009. Really, why? Why all these years, which have been years of well-being, as you say, years of lending - and I do not say so, does not a symbiote say so, does anyone on the left say so, does BSE say - we have the least investment in Greece? I would really like to hear an answer. I would also like to hear what was to be done, because these are really elements. I am not going to mention the convergences of the economic elements presented by the Opposition and by the Government. Instead of salis grano, I add some salt and I move on. That's what opposition is doing. I have to go very quickly, since I have very little time in the bill. I said before that the overcompensation of businesses and accumulated business loans is one of the biggest problems that have arisen during the seven years of the crisis. The data from the services responsible for the existence of a large private debt are not mentioned by the so-called strategic bad payers, but by the majority of entrepreneurs who have viable businesses and have been damaged by the time-consuming recession and the problems of the Greek economy. The treatment of red loans and the overall economic policy of the Ministry must be converged into a central objective: Relaunching the economy and overcoming the crisis. In fact, it is a bet for the government and for society in general the success of this extrajudicial arrangement and it is an important step in the process of leaving the country from the comitology. We have to be honest. The draft law on the extrajudicial compromise will certainly have weaknesses, because reality is obviously unpredictable. It, however, aspires to regulate in a way the debts of companies that can and want to continue to exist and work, but which are difficult because of their debts. It is a bill that everyone said has innovation, a key innovation, because at the heart is the debtor who starts the process, who approves the restructuring plan through a coordinated and structured negotiation process with creditors. And there is a significant difference, apart from the holistic approach, that this draft for the extrajudicial mechanism for the first time enables a debited company to negotiate and regulate its debts in a single procedure with all its creditors, namely private and legal entities governed by public law and funds. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will not go into the procedure for how it is done. It was important to place all the colleagues. I mean, however, it's over. It is important to focus on the potential and prospects of growth. There, in my view, the governments will be counted there, there the political views of each of us will be measured. Political disagreements are reasonable and necessary. But there should be arguments, not insults and vulnerability. I think that each of us can see - and I have seen it several times in these committees - who is abusing. I was yesterday - and I must say it - in the Committee on Hellenism of the Dispersion. The Greek people drew their conclusions to the school of Munich. I can say many other examples. I shall end, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance, saying one thing. If SYRIZA succeeds - because he has not succeeded yet - in the need for them to take place, then I think we will have succeeded. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u399	Thank you, too. Mr. Theocharis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u400	Ladies and gentlemen, we need today's bill, because we need a solution to the stone that is tied to the neck by small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. But you bring a mechanism of bureaucratic, complex, with multiple and useless, unnecessarily exceptions, a mechanism that closes the eye to strategic malicious payers and leads hundreds of thousands of cases to wait on trial and after five or ten years. So instead of cutting the rope that binds the stone into the neck of the small media, you tell them "do not even enter the sea". But that is not a solution. We have all told you in the Commission. The direct interested parties have told you. The institutions told you nothing except, but you did not listen to them. Today private debt is about to reach GDP, 100 billion in taxes, 30 billion in funds, over 100 billion in banks. Historically this is one of the greatest burdens of bad debts on the world, if any, level. We need to define it. Businesses and households will not recover unless a definitive and sustainable solution is found. The same applies to banks that do not perform their role today. What I am proposing is the introduction of a system of mechanisms which can distinguish the businesses that can survive, the businesses that are the social and economic wealth of the country and must not be lost. From a limit and above - let us say the EUR 500,000 - to follow the legal rescue procedures, the judicial compromise, such as in the case of Marinopoulos. For the smaller debts, from there on, there must be a lighter judicial procedure, just like the one you bring with this bill, and I do not understand why you insist on calling it out of court when you take it to the Multiple Court of First Instance. For the smaller debts, let us say up to 250,000, we have to go to small and medium-sized enterprises, with no limits of 20,000 or anything else, to a viable out-of-court settlement, without judges, so that we can provide a solution for these people, which only includes banks, funds and tax debts. Most businesses can thus be saved, and so there is no need for the judges, through rapid electronic procedures, through general criteria and automated procedures, so that no one's signature of a civil servant is needed and, of course, we can proceed with an evaluation of the proposals made by ombudsmen and restructuring experts on the basis of a sound business plan. Those companies that cannot be rescued at these three levels should be put into liquidation to give room for new businesses to bloom and give impetus to the economy. But the liquidation, too, is deficient. Private people cannot go bankrupt, for example, in our country. This must happen. And not only that, but the mechanism is imperfect. Apart from not giving a real solution, it has imperfections. As Mr Karras' amendment points out, it involves contributors and guarantors, even those who provided guarantees only on the basis of a related relationship without gaining profit. It is disgraceful to exclude so many and many cases, at the time when you are giving this amendment fines. The Minister is an honest man. When he accepted this amendment, he smashed his head. He just said, "I can't find out who he is. I'm making it acceptable." He whispered it and left. But you - because the Minister is not a Member - will vote on it and vote on it by roll-call vote. And each "yes" will be "yes, I'm a partner of smugglers". Your colleague came before Mr Kegeroglu and Mr Amyras before, and said: "Hey, a man took a body, gave so much money, not to give him 38 million?" So, are we setting up the contest? Because that's what he told us. Apart from giving, setting up the competitions. You are giving the chosen ones not to take the players with their own money, but through others, with the gift of the fines. This amendment is a disgrace! You've got to drop her now. Very quickly you have learned the tricks, the "first time left". Too fast! Please, I have tabled the amendment for the second time, to give a second chance to companies which have been closed, have been left with debts, fines, increments and people have a loop in the neck and cannot, no longer, have a business to give them. And the Minister got confused, he said he's not making it acceptable, and he's already been through it with legislative improvement. And I have to beg you with the Athens Trade Association, along with GSEW, to accept this self-evident and give the fines so? We have therefore achieved this change, and that is good, and we will also monitor implementation, because it is not just the law. Ladies and gentlemen, the necessary recovery leap in need of the country will only take place through the revival of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, by reconstituting the middle-class that has been destroyed. The U.S.A. came out the day before yesterday, which came out after five years, at the request of documents that I personally made, because these were missing. And what is it? It's evidence of fire. 20% of the middle class has disappeared. In order to make the leap of growth, the jump in the twenty-first century, concrete actions are needed: Firstly, an overall programme for outstanding debts. Save business, allow banks to live. I described it. Secondly, a favourable and functional insurance and tax system, with 20% insurance contributions, 20% tax. Thirdly, a modern-day digitally-structured public administration, which will drastically reduce corruption, will increase the speed of service and quality of service for citizens. Here too, I should like to point out that without an electronic procedure this bill is not going to work. Mrs. Jackri spoke to the committee about the platform and told us she would be ready in June. And before you're speaking, Mr. Vice President spoke to the bankers the other day and spoke about September. So you've already given the extension. The three months that you requested, Mr. Loverdos, are not there. It's much longer and we've been revealed by Mr. Drasakis. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Before we vote on the bill, then, Mr President, I shall conclude - and I am referring to current policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u401	No, we're running out of time, Mr. Theochari. It's not about current political time now.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u402	I'm done, I'm done, Mr. President. The government has indeed shown that it has made a negotiation mainly for internal consumption reasons. In practice, however, she has proved that she is not interested in the budget and falls into Mr. Shoeble's fingernails. He already thinks about it and Mr. Shoeble says: "I ask them half and they bring me 4.2%. So, no 3.5% for ten years, 8% I have to ask, or I will also be a fool." This surplus money goes out, pay off the debts. I told you. If we don't get 3.5% and 2% to support investment in our country, we don't have a chance. Yesterday, the Prime Minister told us 'I am now voting for the measures and, if necessary, I shall vote for them'. Don't we have any respect?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u403	Time's up. Time-respect, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u404	I shall conclude, Mr President. The government is taking unnecessarily measures, effectively burying young people. But a country that cannot support young people cannot come out of the crisis. What am I supposed to do with the surpluses when I don't have a new generation? Our young people end up being modern, Hercules. They're holding in both hands a degree and an air ticket.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u405	We understand that, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u406	And those who stay have all the doors in their country closed. And you are responsible for this, Mr President, and gentlemen of the co-determination. You are responsible, because you are following the same path as all post-multiple governments, while people waited for something different. And that won't forgive you when the time comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u407	Mrs Katsavria has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u408	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I expected that the criticism of colleagues from the Opposition Committee on the extra-judicial mechanism for regulating the debts of businesses would be more concerned with ensuring its implementation and less about the need for their political diversification. Of course, it is not surprising that the New Democracy's position, which seems to be more similar to that of private creditors, that is, banks and business suppliers. One cannot know, of course, whether this is the strongest motive in the New Democracy. Certainly, however, one can easily understand the embarrassment and disappointment of its leadership, as all indications lead to the closure of evaluation and the passage of society to recovery and development. Today's bill is an overtime demand of the commercial and business world and especially of small and medium-sized enterprises. Because the unprecedented and protracted recession has already disappeared from the market for thousands of businesses and is threatening those who have worked hard and hard to keep up to today. It has proved in the most tragic way that the austerity drug, neoliberal inspirational measures, namely the reduction of income and social costs, will in any case lead to a vicious cycle that deepens the recession and exacerbates its consequences, which means more unemployment, more poverty and greater social inequalities. Austerity has not only caused deflation, but has dissolved the market and despaired the vast majority of society. However, even late, many entrepreneurs have realised that the depletion of the wages and pensions initially seemed to suit each other separately has ultimately undermined the viability of their own businesses. Because it is the reduction of workers' incomes that has led to the reduction of demand, the reduction of sales, the reduction of profits, the lack of liquidity and the inability to repay debts. Most people now know in their minds that the so - called anti-popular neoliberal model of so - called pro-Europeans is not for everyone. It concerns mainly large interests, both domestic and foreign, which desperately claim the drastic limitation of small and medium-sized enterprises and see the worker as their most hated enemy. It concerns those who have assigned their political representation to the unlikely trio of Simitis - Mitsotakis - Venizelos. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the opinion on a private debt management strategy. But what else does this bill look forward to? The fact that viable but at the same time overcompensated companies have the potential to claim the overall regulation of their debts does not belong to such a strategy? Some have also talked about segregating the origin of debts, i.e. whether these debts relate to the public, the banks or private creditors. However, does this not mean a series of priority for the lenders of an enterprise which obviously also makes it difficult for some of them? And what is different from the current situation as the debtor would again be alone and weakened toward his powerful lenders? In addition, some are concerned that most of the extrajudicial conciliation cases will end up in the courts. Obviously, they say so, because they do not understand that any compromise between the debtor and creditors means that it is a mutual interest agreement for all sides. And it is more than clear that the debt settlement will not be based on economic sizes, such as the amount of debt and size of the company, but on the actual ability to repay the company. The process of implementing the extrajudicial compromise will be carried out electronically, which reduces the administrative costs of the procedure, not only for the company but also for creditors. This is also expected to ensure transparency, speed and efficiency in the implementation of the law. This legislative initiative of the Government aims to contribute to the support of highly indebted citizens and businesses. Let us stress here that farmers are also subject to this bill. This law even adds to a number of interventions, such as the Law on Default Households, protectionist provisions under the Consumer Protection Act, the Law on the establishment and operation of non-banking debt management companies, the Ministry of Economy's contribution to the reform of the Bank's Code of Conduct and the establishment of the Private Debt Management Secretariat. We therefore have every reason to claim that this grid of arrangements is implementing part of our parallel programme. We also believe that this draft law will also contribute to the development of our national economy, as it is in line with the entire government's plan to support small and medium-sized enterprises, strengthen liquidity and stimulate investment in the economy. We believe that the highly indebted companies that have a viability margin not only should not be cut off from the country's productive trunk, but rather it is necessary to link them to the development effort and the regeneration of our country that is going on. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that those who are not in favour of voting in favour of this bill are mistaken, because, together with the prospect of the write-down of public debt, the abolition of austerity and comitology can again be given hope and perspective to our people, especially in the new generation of employment and a better, fairer and more promising future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u409	Mr. Antoniou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u410	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me close today's debate, if I am the last speaker, with some very brief comments. First of all, the importance of the bill has been discussed by many colleagues and, more recently, the rapporteur has described its importance in terms of majority. I want to close with six remarks. Firstly, Minister, I would like to say that the amount of remuneration for ombudsmen is small in relation to the size and importance of their work and must be increased, so that we do not have the impression of insufficient interest. Secondly, they should be able to be included in the arrangement with guaranteed loans from the Greek State, which are in prolongation and not just the guarantees that have been deposited. You have been requested with documentation. Thirdly, for the purpose of regulating the debts of the free professionals in insurance funds and public authorities, as provided for in Article 15(21), to pay off the debt from EUR 20,000 to EUR 10,000 if possible. Fourthly, in the case of companies which owe more than 85% of only one debtor - it relates mainly to banks - to follow the normal procedure with a definition of a coordinator and not to allow them to negotiate bilaterally. To create the necessary electronic platform for the submission of applications for accession to the law of the undertakings concerned in order to speed up the process. Finally, it should also come quickly to regulate the Ministry of Justice in order to ensure that bank executives, insurance funds and public authorities are out of order for the agreed restructuring of debts and loans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u411	Thank you, too. A colleague has not asked for the floor for a second. Minister, would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u412	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u413	Mr President, I would like to turn to the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u414	Here, Mr Saridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u415	Thank you, Mr President. The Demetriadis amendment has a name. Last year, Mr Minister, I had three colleagues from SYRIZA who had supported it, and one of my colleagues from Thessaloniki did support it. It concerns a company in Northern Greece and you are personally accountable for this great scandal that will connect your name to the first - officially - scandal of the SYRIZA Government, who learns very quickly how to lead the scandals. There is no respect for the representatives of the Greek Parliament. Nobody! Who's gonna pay the money you're giving this private company? Will you pay them or will the Greek people pay them? The Centro Association will vote against this amendment. As far as the remaining two ministerial amendments are concerned, we have pointed out that, with repetitions, extensions and postponements, exceptionally, urgently and by way of derogation from the law, they cannot come out properly. That's not how problems are solved. On the contrary, problems are swell, perpetuate. We shall nevertheless support Amendment No 1025. As far as Amendment No 1026 is concerned, the Central Association will not support it, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u416	Thank you. It is therefore declared...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u417	Mr President, may I have the floor for a second?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u418	Didn't you talk before?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u419	I talked about the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u420	Mr. Minister doesn't want to add anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u421	Okay. Then I have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u422	Mr President, won't we go second? Aren't the rapporteurs going to become secondarys?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u423	I called you before, and no one wanted to be seconded.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u424	I've been gone for three minutes, Mr. President. I want to place myself.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u425	But I called you before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u426	I was here two hours, all the time, I was gone three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u427	What am I supposed to do about it?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u428	Don't I have the possibility of a dentistry? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u429	We said, I called you before.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u430	Mr President, we have told you that we will apply for a roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u431	What did I do? This is where we've been all year.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u432	I beg your pardon very much, the list still had five colleagues. We won't stay in the vote if you do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u433	No, I'm not doing anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u434	May I tell you?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u435	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u436	There was a total misunderstanding as to the procedure. Firstly, I thought, as we have decided this morning - the Minister was here and can assure you of this - President-in-Office of Mr Kaklamani that we need a second round of positions on the amendments and he told me - it is in the Minutes that we will be given...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u437	Mr. Loverdos, I gave you the floor at any time.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u438	Please. I have no objections to that. But that's what I'm saying. On the issue of seconds, we were assured that there will be amendments. Since this morning. Their time is coming and you are going to close the debate in order to avoid a nominal proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u439	I'm not rushing at all. Not at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u440	That's what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u441	Do you have anything to testify? Check it out! No objections!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u442	We'll testify. When you're in a hurry to close the conversation...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u443	I have addressed this House. Please, Mr. Loverdos!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u444	Let me finish, please. I don't have anything with you or you don't have anything with me. Let me say my views and then I'll be done. I have informed you that we will table a proposal with a denomination. Isn't that right? We had information from the Bureau, first of all, of the seconds and there were still five speakers.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u445	But, Mr. Loverdo, I called the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u446	...that we didn't know if they'd given up on their speech. That's what the Bureau knows. You therefore had to warn us and say 'I will close the sitting or have resigned these colleagues from the table, deposit the proposal nominally or do not submit it'.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u447	I have announced...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u448	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u449	You weren't in the Chamber, Mr. Loverdo.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u450	If you do not give our parliamentary group the time to table the proposal by name, I inform you that we will be withdrawn from the Chamber and will not participate...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u451	Check it out!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u452	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u453	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u454	Mr President, I beg your pardon, in support of what Mr Loverdos said, is the following: we have caused and repeatedly asked the Minister, during the entire debate, to tell us whether or not he accepts the amendment. [[Noise in the Chamber]] If you're kind, let me finish. That's what happened now, a few minutes ago. Thursday night to gather the Members' signatures, some time is needed. If the government tries to avoid the request of a nominal...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u455	No government is trying anything. You are addressing the Bureau. You weren't here, Mr. Teddy.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u456	Mr President, don't give me that hand! So do it at school to your students, if you had.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u457	I don't understand. What did you say?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u458	Don't give me that hand! That's what I'm telling you! Don't you hear?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u459	I'm listening very well!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u460	If you listen, then don't ask me again. So hand to do it to a student. Do you hear me?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u461	You are addressing the Bureau. You will not tell me how I am going to address this House. Okay? I address you with dignity and respect.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u462	Then don't shake my hand like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u463	Please. Say what you have to say. You weren't in the Chamber and you couldn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u464	I was not in the Chamber because I was in agreement to collect the signatures on the unacceptable tactics of the government, which does not honor the government and does not honor the Minister. I asked him 15 times if he would accept this amendment in the morning. And he never answered and answered half an hour ago, so he wouldn't be deposited nominally. And if that's not a boom, what is it? Can you tell us what it is? Aren't you a little embarrassed here? Aren't you ashamed? We ask you who you are covering with this amendment and you are not telling us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u465	Aren't you telling me now, Mr. Dendia, do you have anything to add? Tell us.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u466	Please expect the signatures to be collected. It's clear. Late the vote. We'll collect and get you the signatures. I'm telling you directly...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u467	Do you want ten minutes to collect them?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u468	We need a quarter to get you the signatures. Clear?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u469	Is that under the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Treasury?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u470	Is it under the Rules of Procedure, Mr Colleague, that the Minister, who has been provoked since this morning, has not declared that he will accept it and accept it on Thursday night, ten minutes before the end? Is that under the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u471	He's been saying it a long time ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u472	Listen, there are also limits of parliamentary shame and the government has overrun them! Let's get to know each other!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u473	Mr. Tendia, you are addressing the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u474	No, I am not addressing the Bureau. This is not your fault. I'm addressing the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u475	Mr Twelfths and ladies and gentlemen, we are interrupting for ten minutes to gather the signatures. We're waiting.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u476	The sitting shall be resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, following the roll-call vote by Members of the Democratic Independence PASOK - DIMAR, there was a similar request from New Democracy and then SYRIZA. As a result, we are delaying the submission of all together. I am aware, at the same time, that our meeting is being attended by the upper Western theories, after having been toured in the exhibition of the courtroom "ELLEROS VENIZELOS" and was informed about the history of the building and how to organize and operate the Parliament, thirty students and four educational attendants from the 72nd Municipal School of Thessaloniki. The House, guys, welcomes you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u477	The sitting shall be resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, requests for roll-call vote have been tabled, first of all, by Members of the SYRIZA at the outset, articles and amendments and, secondly, by Members of the New Democracy on Amendment No 1027/15. However, initially, they had tabled a request for roll-call vote Members of the Democratic Incorporation PASOK - DIMAR and Independent Members on Amendment No 1027/15. We propose that the roll-call vote should take place tomorrow, Friday, 28 April 2017, at 10.00 a.m., before parliamentary scrutiny. Following the proposals put forward, the vote on the bill will continue tomorrow morning. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u478	No, Mr. President. Can I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u479	You have the floor, Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u480	Mr President, because we have tabled the request for a denomination in time...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u481	I said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u482	I have a simple request. There will be no - I think - objections from anyone. Because in the morning there will be a problem with two colleagues, we would like you to read our own table tonight and tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u483	I'm sorry, is there a consensus on the point raised by Mr. Kegeroglu?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u484	The Rules of Procedure are clear, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u485	Please! Mr. Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u486	Thank you very much. We have seen a pleasant process in Parliament this evening. There have been attempts on several occasions, Mr President, to suspend the sitting in order not to table roll-call motions for resolutions. We have been asking the Minister since 14.00 to tell us whether he accepts or does not accept Mr Dimitriadis' amendment. He said it too late. There have been problems with the Bureau - not with you here - who has tried to close the procedure in order not to submit these proposals. And when, Mr President, it became clear in the Chamber that both the Democratic Integration and the New Democracy table motions for a roll-call vote on a suspected amendment that smells corruption, the majority discovered that it also wants to table a roll-call vote on its own draft law, so that people do not understand what the people are at stake. Danger is corruption! [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] That is why, Mr President, we must go to the reading at the time of Mr Kegeroglu's proposal. But don't think that he's so wicked that he can cover up his guilt.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u487	Mr. Xydakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u488	Mr President, I do not have your own parliamentary experience of Mr Loverdus or Mr Teddy. I think, however, that this evening there was a violation of all the Rules of Procedure and at our disposal in order to provide a political solution to what it was complaining about just now. Don't teach us now, Mr. Loverdos. We accepted it. He requested time to collect signatures and was given. Mr. Dendias has asked for the same. We're done! We did the elementary repair of political order and parliamentary order. Let's get this over with. Let everyone move the finger. It's over here!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u489	I would like to ask, firstly, that we do not have an interactive debate, because it does not lead anywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u490	Mr President, the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u491	Mr. Amyras, on this matter? What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u492	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it turns out that if you are born a Liberate, you will never be Barcelona. And why am I saying that? Because this is where the SYRIZA Members were crying a number of halves for this amendment. When we asked for clarification about which company is behind the smuggling, whose fines will be deleted with this amendment, no one knew. But I would like to transfer the climate not only within Ethiopia, but also the climate around Ethiopia...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u493	Please, Mr Amyras, on this point.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u494	What do you let him say about the sidelines of the halloween? What is it? Journalist?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u495	It matters. May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u496	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u497	I mean, like the god of the Romans, Janus, who had a double face, other for the outsides and other for the insides of the walls of Rome, so many SYRIZA MPs...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u498	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u499	Mr. Xydakis, why are you displeased? Do you not hear your SYRIZA colleagues out in the hallways, saying that this amendment is unacceptable? So we give you one last chance to withdraw it and finally save your ass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u500	Shame on you! Withdraw!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u501	In this respect, ladies and gentlemen, the debate...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u502	Read the names!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u503	It's disgraceful! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u504	Tomorrow is not a day of legislative work!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u505	Since the Rules of Procedure provide for the conclusion of the sitting now, the sitting is closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u506	No, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u507	You will read our own names. The others tomorrow.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u508	Mr President, we do not accept such things.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u509	The Conference of Presidents...
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u510	Leave the Conference of Presidents. The names today!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u511	He doesn't have a conference!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u512	The names!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u513	The names to be read today!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u514	Let the House decide, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u515	That is right, Mr President. The vote will be taken, Mr President, so that this House can take the decision. The Special Secretary cannot arrange the procedure. If he wants to, Mr. Voutsi to come here!
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u516	The House will decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u517	Mr President, read the names. Read all about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u518	Please calm down, to speak to the Bureau. If SYRIZA and the New Democracy agree, since the majority of the House agrees, I shall read the names. [[Applause from the Wing of the Democratic Assent PASOK - DIMAR]] Was this supposed to happen?
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u519	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u520	Mrs Zaroulia has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u521	I personally have no problem, but do I think that tomorrow too many will be missing for the vote and because the PASOK said for Tuesday, do we have to do it Tuesday? I don't have a problem personally, I'm here.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u522	Ms. Zarulia, the majority of the House decided for tomorrow. Minority's view is respected, but the majority has decided. And the New Democracy accepted it for tomorrow and SYRIZA and the Democratic Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u523	The President's decision was in one or two meetings. Once he wants a second, he'll go on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u524	So, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat that a request for a roll-call vote on Amendment 1020/15 has been tabled to the draft Law of the Ministry of Economy and Development of the Ministry of Finance, 'Criminal Arrangement for Business Debts', by Members of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR and Independent Members, whose text reads as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u525	I will also read out the list of signatories to the request for a roll-call vote of Members to the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR and Independent Members, in order to determine whether there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for it. Mrs. Genuine Lights. I've been away. Mr. Arvanitides Georgios. Here you go. Mr. Venizelos Evangelos. Abstentions. Mr. Ahmet Ilhan. Here you go. Mr. Gregorakos Leonidas. Here you go. Mr. Theocharopoulos Athanasios. Here you go. Mr. Kegeroglu Vasiliou. Here you go. Mrs. Kefalidou Harula. Here. Mr. Koutsoukos John. Here you go. Mr. Kremastinos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Constantinople Odysseus. Here you go. Mr. Constantopoulos Dimitrios. Here you go. Mr. Loverdos Andreas. Here you go. Mr. Maniotis John. Here you go. Mr. Barriots Constantine. Abstentions. Mr. Papatheodoros Theodore. Here you go. Mr. Scandalidis Konstantinos. Here you go. Mr. Jellonis Michalis. Here you go. Mrs. Christophilopoulou. Here. From the undersigned Independent Members. Mr. Karras George. Here you go. Mr. Theocharis Theocharis. Here you go. Ladies and gentlemen, there is the number of signatories required by the Rules of Procedure to vote for a roll-call vote on the PASOK - DIMAR and the Independent Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2017-04-27-S1-commons.u526	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point at 21.45 the meeting for tomorrow, Friday, April 28, 2017, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: a) legislative work, a vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Economy and Development: "Exit mechanism for the regulation of corporate debts" and b) parliamentary scrutiny, topical debate.
