ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e50	The representatives of Trond Helleland, Olav Akselsen, Anita Apelthun Seele and Steinar Bastesen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The meeting alternate for Akershu County, Tron Erik Hovind, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party Group on the Permit of the Representative of the Bjørn Tore Godal from 8 February to 17 February to take part in a trip to Canada under the direction of the Canadian Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Workers' Party on the leave of the representative Einar Olav Skogholt from 8 February to 10 February to attend a meeting on global drug issues in Washington from the Workers' Party Group on sickness leave of the representatives of Ms Bæivi, Sylvia Brustad and Laila Kaland from 8 February to 10 February respectively and until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Oslo, Anders Hornslien, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the representative Bjørn Tore Godal's leave from 8 February to 17 February, for reasons of well-being. 1st@item: inlistbox On a proposal from the President, a unanimous decision was taken: the request is dealt with immediately and granted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Finnmark County: Einar JohansenFor Hedmark County: Erling Brandsnes and Nils Amund RøhneFor Møre and Romsdal County: Ottar KaldholFor Oslo: Siri Bjerke3. Einar Johansen, Nils Amund Røhne and Ottar Kaldhol are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Mimmi Beivi, Einar Olav Skogholt and Laila Kaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e136	Einar Johansen, Erling Brandsnes, Nils Amund Røhne, Ottar Kaldhol and Siri Bjerke are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e150	This is the story of how Fisheries Norway is missing billions of revenue, and the story of how the white sea cell stock has tripled without the Norwegian authorities having lit the warning lamp. It is time to take seriously the growing marine mammals stock in the Barents Sea. Selling and whales consume an increasing proportion of marine resources. Today's government means that we are missing billions of revenue, value creation and a larger number of jobs along the coast. To get an overview of the situation, ecological and economic impact assessments are required. Norwegian and Russian self-answerers have been operating in the White Sea for a number of years. The catch was active until the mid-1960s. However, the campaign of animal protection organisations against self-anxiety and lack of national attention to the industry led to collapse in both the catch and market. Without capture, the population increases. The researchers operated with an estimate of 700 000 green soles. However, on the basis of comprehensive and more reliable censuses in 1998, researchers found that the population was three times as large, i.e. approx. 2.2 million sales. The total Norwegian-Russian quota was 31 600 animals last year. It could also be taken in the form of cubs, then with a quota of 70,000 animals. Only part of the quota was taken. For Norwegian prisoners, the result was discouraging. They only took 1,150 seals in the East ice, i.e. just a fifth of the allocated quota, and about 4,500 sales in the West ice. Only two catching boats and one research vessel participated in the catch. 1999 was largely representative of recent developments. Recent developments with a marked reduction in self-anxiety should give us great cause for concern. Measures are required to restore the level of self-anxiety on both Norwegian and Russian sides. In this context, there is a need to focus severally more on the ecological and economic consequences of the strongly reduced catch. In the 1990s, fisheries research in Tromsø has carried out a solid ecological research on Greenland's islands in the Barents Sea, including: the selenium food intake has been studied. According to the country's perhaps leading expert in this field, Tore Haug is researching fisheries research, Greenland's annual total consumption is estimated to be around 3.3 million tonnes of biomass. Fisheries research in Tromsø has also investigated the food intake of the wave whale. For that part of the North-East Atlantic wave whale population grazing in the Barents Sea and in the Norwegian Sea, an annual consumption of 1,8 million tonnes is estimated at about 1 million tonnes. 85 000 animals. These are fainting numbers that are hard to understand. But by comparison, last year the total Norwegian fishing was 2.6 million tonnes. This means that Greenland soles and wavy whales consume about twice the amount that Norwegian fishermen take up from the sea. Consumption of selenium and whales also exceeds the total annual consumption of marine food in total by countries such as France, Germany and the United Kingdom. As you know, only wavy whales are subject to partly commercial Norwegian taxation. According to fisheries research, both the green sole and the consumption of the wave whale have shown that these marine mammals are likely to have a significant impact on the populations of cod, herring and weights in the Barents Sea. The marine mammals I've been through are huge. Once Norway and Russia in the fisheries agreement for the year 2000, have reached a total quota of 390,000 tonnes of Norwegian Arctic cod, i.e. 10 pst. of the total annual consumption of biomass by the greenlandsselse, we will all realize that it is not just the fishermen that supply themselves in the Barents Sea. In fact, cod quotas in the Barents Sea have been reduced by 460,000 tonnes in the last three years. In the same fisheries agreement for this year, it appears that Norway allows Russia to catch up to 5,300 adult seals in the West ice, while Norway can catch up to 5,000 adult seals in the Russian zone in the East ice. These figures suggest that it was hardly self-anxious that received the greatest attention during the recent fisheries negotiations between Norway and Russia. In addition, the impact on fishing quotas has been estimated for wave whales. From a competent team, it has been shown that, in the event of a somewhat harsher taxation of wave whales, the average share of Norwegian Arctic cod could be increased by more than 100000 tonnes per year. In money, we are also talking here about values in the billions class that are lost for the Norwegian fishing industry. From research teams it is noted that the growing stocks of marine mammals affect fish stocks, and thus also fish quotas. It is also worth noting that the fisheries manager is of the opinion that sustainable capture of marine mammals is one of the main challenges facing Norwegian fishing industry. The resource-rich Barents Sea is an important growth area for several species of fish, including: Norwegian Arctic cod. It is this cod that is now on its way to the spawning grounds and lays the basis for the traditional scribal in Lofoten. As can be seen from the studies and evidence provided by researchers on selves and wave whale populations in the Barents Sea, an ecological imbalance has occurred. It must not evolve. It is time for some grips to be taken on government and magnification, which must primarily speed up self-anxiety, which must increase research efforts, but which must also contribute to increased international understanding of the imbalance and its consequences for the consumption of marine mammals in the Barents Sea. This, of course, also requires much greater information. The fact is that the selenium and the whale supply the fish stocks in the Barents Sea at a level which should have lighted the warning lights of the authorities for the longest time. The consumption levels of the marine mammals are quantifiable and at a level far exceeding the quotas represented by the fisheries. So if we look at the economic values this represents, we're talking about the lost billions for both Norwegian and Russian fishing industries. It is simply time for ecological imbalances to be taken more seriously than is the case today. In recent years, when Norway and Russia could have caught about 15 000 sales per year, it is simply depressing. We have, for some reason, let the self-anxiety industry go almost to waste, and with open eyes, we have made sure that this historic fishing industry is soon to be completely lost. The worrying development of the Barents Sea should result in a rapid take-up of a force to stabilise the self-anxiety diet on the legs. For the nation, rebuilding the self-afraid fleet would simply be very profitable. I ask and hope that the Council of State will take an initiative in the matter and soon get the deplorable situation into a new path. After understanding this, the Minister for Fisheries discussed the issue with his Russian colleague during the recent visit to Oslo, and that is positive. Furthermore, the Council of State should initiate an economic analysis of the consumption of marine mammals and the loss of national value creation in the form of lost fishing quotas. We should also strengthen research and information efforts. The government must also be more willing to address the issue of marine mammals on the international agenda. Norway, in cooperation with countries such as Canada and Denmark/Greenland, should address the WTO non-tariff import bans on selves introduced in some countries. It is necessary for Norway to develop a greater international understanding of the need for increased catches of sea mammals. Furthermore, the Government should take a closer look at the Greenlandic Isles Administration in the Barents Sea. Per. Today, Russia is setting on a one-sided basis quotas for Greenland-Self in the Barents Sea. Then Russia gives Norway a certain quota, just as Norway gives Russia the quota on Jan Mayen. There hasn't been a Russian catch at Jan Mayen in years. I assume that the background to the fact that the Greenland seel in the Barents Sea is considered to be a purely Russian stock is that the catch takes place in the White Sea, i.e. in the Russian zone, when the harness pulls up on the ice in order to have kids. Biologically speaking, however, it is a shared Norwegian-Russian population. The island of Greenland is probably as much in Norwegian waters, and according to researchers, selenium eats as much in Norwegian waters as in Russian waters. Therefore, the population should have been administratively divided between Norway and Russia, in such a way that Norway and Russia are in charge of setting the withdrawal quotas, as is done, for example, with Norwegian Arctic cod in the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission. Finally, I would like to say that the balance of the Barents ecosystem must be restored. The development of marine mammals has seriously damaged the Norwegian fishing industry. Workplaces and billions have been lost. By restoring self-anxiety to a sound level, it can be a historically profitable act. We can no longer sit with our hands in captivity and be spectators that marine mammals supply several million tons of seafood annually, in a world where food is still lacking.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e186	Before I say anything about what concrete measures are being taken to increase Norwegian self-anxiety, I would like to provide a little more background information related to the interpellation of the representative Ivar Kristiansen. Norway operates today, and has traditionally driven, self-afraid in two different areas. We're catching claws and greensell in the West ice and greensell in the East ice. It is correct, as the representative of the population Ivar Kristiansen points out, that new stock estimates for Greenland-Self in 1998 showed that the population was much larger than one had previously assumed. Research results from a Russian census in 1998 showed that the population consists of approximately 2, 2 million animals and not 700000 animals, such as those previously assumed. In the West ice, the stock estimates show that there are relatively stable conditions. Stocks are currently estimated to be 460,000 green soles and 130 000 poppy. We also have good estimates for the wave whale population and for the part of the population that lives in parts of the year along the Norwegian coast and in the Barents Sea. The total population is estimated to be around 112,000 animals. In addition to this, we have other seals and whales that live part or all of the year in our waters. However, these cell populations are limited in scope, which of course does not preclude them from creating local conflicts in relation to farming, salmon watercourses and the transfer of cod track. But in the context we're talking about today, they pose a small threat. As the representative Ivar Kristiansen points out, selenium eats fish, not only the type of fish that we exploit commercially, but also crustaceans and species of fish that we do not exploit commercially today. Both seals, whales and humans are so-called top predators. That's why it becomes so that when the stock of seals and whales grows, well, there's less fish left for us. Now there's not necessarily a one-to-one relationship between what sells and whales consume fish, and what we might take out extra as a result of larger marine mammal tax. But in a rough way, the bigger the whales and the cell populations, the less they are left to the people of the resources where we – to say – share the administrative responsibility with the cell and whale populations. In terms of concrete figures, we have limited knowledge of what the Vessis population eats, but recent years of research – which was also underlined by the representative of Kristiansen – have given us a relatively good insight into what the population of the island of Greenland and the wave whale population has of extractions in the form of biomass from the Barents Sea. With a relatively small solder population, which has been the case in the last few years, the annual consumption of Greenland's seal has been estimated at 3.4 million tonnes of biomass. Of these, herrings constitute 390000 tonnes and codfish as cod, hay and sein 360 000 tonnes. By comparison, I can state that the total Norwegian cod quota for Norwegian Arctic cod amounted to 193,400 tonnes. So it's right that the selenium consumes more in the Barents Sea than what is commercially fished in the same areas of Norwegian fishermen. The quail does not consume as much as the cell stocks, but in return it has a higher take-out of fish that we tax commercially. It is estimated that it has an annual consumption of 1.8 million tonnes of biomass in the time it is located along the Norwegian coast and in the Barents Sea. Of these, it is estimated that 630000 tonnes of herring, 140 000 tonnes of solders, 250000 tonnes of cod and 130 000 tonnes of hake. So the sum of the total numbers of the cells and whales that we have in an average year is going to be about the same. 1.9 million tonnes of commercial fishing in the Barents Sea. That's about as much as we fish out of the same populations. The problem that the representative of Ivar Kristiansen wants to address is primarily linked to the population of Greenlandese salmon in the Baltic Sea, as a result of the size of the population and the fact that it is the top predator in the Barents Sea ecosystem. This stock is a Russian management responsibility. Allowances are set for the withdrawal of stocks in accordance with international administrative principles through the processing and advice of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea ICES. In view of, inter alia: high juvenile mortality in the population recommended a quota of 31 600 adult animals in 1999. For 2000, they have recommended a continuation at the same level. Of these, Norway has been allocated an annual quota of 5000 adult animals through negotiations with Russia. Norwegian self-anxiety, therefore, has little impact on the population development of Greenland's islands, in view of the current framework conditions. It is therefore of particular importance to maintain Russian catches for the taxation of the stock of seals in the Baltic Sea. So back to why we want to maintain the Norwegian catch of seals and whales, and what means we use to achieve those objectives. The Norwegian self-growth industry is currently in a very difficult situation. The industry is struggling with poor profitability and the fishing activity is maintained only as a result of public aid. At the same time, there is a growing recognition of the need to increase the taxation of cell populations in the northern regions. In the light of this situation, the authorities today have two objectives for self-responsiveness: increased profitability to make it more attractive to drive self-afraid increased catch from a multi-stock perspective In order to contribute to these objectives, the authorities have put in place different types of instruments. Since 1991, operating aid has been granted to the self-resistance vessels and to the reception facilities for seals. Furthermore, we have supported various information projects with a view to increasing general knowledge of Norwegian principles for multi-stock management, especially related to the management of sales and whales, and support has been given to projects where the purpose has been the product development and marketing of products based on sales. The direct operating aid for self-anxiety has been financed by the reserve amount under the fisheries agreement between the State and the Norwegian Fisheries Team. The use of these funds is a question of negotiation between the Ministry of Fisheries and the Norwegian Fisheries Team. In 1999, 13 million were set aside. kr to self-anxiety, with pre-deposit of 17,5 million for this year. kr. The background to the aid scheme has been the desire to stimulate profitable fishing. Until 1999, the Ministry of Fisheries has had the aim of making the industry more profitable. A profitable industry will attract actors, making it possible to exploit allocated allowances. However, in 1998, as I mentioned earlier, there was a new estimate for Greenland's stock in the Baltic Sea. Since then, attention has been focused to a greater extent on the relationship between the size of marine mammals and our possible fish withdrawal, and one has not least begun to assess the socio-economic costs of different levels of marine mammals and different management strategies. From this point of view, I will not define support for the self-growth industry as a subsidy to an unprofitable industry, but rather as a future investment in which the objective is a higher extraction of more valuable resources such as cod, herring and solder. Now it is not necessarily the case that cod products will always be more profitable than self-products, and the objective must in any case be to maximise the value creation, to give the total supply of resources. Therefore, the Ministry of Fisheries has chosen to maintain the objective of increasing the profitability of the self-governing industry. The operating aid for 2000 will therefore be based on the following principles: Ships are granted a flat-rate grant intended to cover the equipment costs of the vessels by self-afraiding. A guaranteed minimum premium due to insecure fishing conditions/ice conditions and thus a high risk of fishing. The design of the variable grant is both value-oriented and catch-oriented in order to motivate the capture and treatment of catches that provide optimum catch value. At the same time, a premium per animal has been introduced to motivate the withdrawal of a high number of animals, units/individuals. In addition to the continuation of traditional operating aid, the Ministry of Fisheries set up in 1999 a subsidy scheme for the further development of Norwegian self-government to contribute to a positive industrial development of the industry. The purpose of the scheme is to support projects that can contribute to increased profitability. Grants may be granted from the scheme to vessels seeking more efficient capture and better care of the raw material and grants may be made to reception and processing facilities for cell products. This will continue in 2000. As another measure, the Ministry of Fisheries will assess whether re-allocation of shrimp trawl permits can be linked to a combination of self-afraid. In this context, we need to look at, for example: taking into account the overall capacity of the shrimp trawl fleet in relation to the resource base and balancing the positive resource effects of increased self-anxiety with increased shrimp harvesting. However, we believe it is right that the industry in this way indirectly co-finances the self-anxiety that, if we get the withdrawal to an adequate level, will have positive resource effects on fish stocks. This will in the long term reduce the need for direct support. The instrument that may give the most outliers/effects in the short term may be to support Russian self-anxiety, for example. through Norwegian-Russian cooperation projects. I have discussed this as mentioned during the recent visit of the Russian Minister for Fisheries. Finally, what is and will be central to the focus of the Ministry of Fisheries's further work on the marine mammals is: putting the size of marine mammals into a global ecosystem context to contribute to the taxation of marine mammals at such a level that a fair balance is maintained between the different levels of the ecosystem to stimulate the commercial exploitation of both whales and seals — if necessary with direct financial support or indirectly through concession awards that provide profitable operational combinations to establish administrative cooperation between the countries responsible for the stocks of whales and seals in the North Atlantic so as to establish optimal harvesting strategies; And this is best done by targeting the measures that have the greatest overall impact on efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e269	I thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. He himself stated that here we do not need any more documentation to take action. The amount of documentation is overwhelming. The starting point is that the Norwegian self-growth industry is completely down for counting. The aid has not been in the last few years for more than 7 to 10 to 11 million. kr per. years. If we raise this level, take the initiative to rebuild this catching industry, the gain on the income side could be written with billions of dollars. So depending on how effectively we apply the political activity image, you can draw the number you want in billions. The Council of State is concerned that the Greenlandese shelve in the White Sea is a Russian responsibility. Yes, it is today, but it should not remain that way, because it turns out that Russia is not taking this very seriously, much less seriously in fact, than what is being done in Norway. It should not continue. This population is migrating, and it has its largest consumption in the Norwegian zone. It is therefore appropriate to take the initiative to share responsibility for management. The councils have been involved, as I was also in my main post, that the cell stock today is actually three times larger than what was thought and expected in 1998. This should mean getting the industry back on track as soon as possible, taking a boost in research efforts, getting more and better evidence. We cannot have a situation like that at Fisheries Research in Tromsø, which must be fought to use research vessels to carry out particularly necessary research in the Barents Sea on marine mammals. We also need to take a hold on international information measures. I think the council knows what I'm thinking about in this regard. In other words, we need a new policy, and we need a government council that takes a power cap, which takes some strong initiatives. And nothing will be better now when we have a new Minister of Fisheries who is making blank sheets in this area than that the Council of State is addressing this. It can contribute to increased value creation in District Norway, to billions of revenue for Fisheries Norway and for the Norwegian state – a value creation that can provide new opportunities, if you like.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e282	I think there's a great deal of agreement that we have to take a force, as underlined by the representative of Kristiansen, to increase the self-anxiety. In this context, however, it is important to take into account that we have to put at the bottom some basic assumptions that we have to work on further. One is administrative procedures, and administrative responsibilities, which are mentioned here. I don't think the most sensible thing is to start a process to change the responsibility for the management of the stock. Then I have more faith in working within the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission and finding the solution there. And that's my impression, after conversations with the Russian Fisheries Minister Sinelnik recently, that they're very concerned, and want, to set in motion a higher exit on the Russian side. The industry is now actively working on setting up a cooperation project to increase Russian sales outlets. However, we must be aware that the basis is the recommendations of the researchers, and the recommendations of the researchers are at a very low level so far. We must then start from, and see if they change their recommendations first, before we can increase the exit in the Norwegian zone, with a Norwegian responsibility and with a Russian responsibility. In the case of State aid, it depends on the agreement with the Norwegian Fisheries Act. As I mentioned in my post, it's set of tentatively 17.5 million. kr in the year for that purpose. There are already discussions with the Fiskarlag about how a best person can use those resources to get a person into a state of self-anguish. The third thing I want to stress is what is mentioned in my post, that a person wants to increase interest in self-afraid by stimulating the entry of new actors, by awarding shrimp trawl concessions. One assesses that situation, and I hope that it can also help to stimulate our interest in self-anxiety.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e291	More and more people realise that it is the fishing industry that has the potential to really generate the income needed to secure well-being into the new century. In a 30-year perspective, the value can increase from $30 billion today to $230 billion, says those who are really optimistic. But if we're to trigger the potential that's there, we're going to have to believe that we have a resilient shelling of resources in the ocean. This field will require us to spend a lot of time on the future, both from the Storing side and from the Government side. Today, the situation is related to the marine mammals that are the theme, and I would like to praise the representative Ivar Kristiansen for taking the initiative for this interpellation debate. The two previous speakers have said that self-anxiety has broken back, and what makes the situation really serious is that on the Russian side it is also very bad. It is therefore clear that it is in our interest to help this environment on foot, so that they are able to take their quota. In connection with the handling of St.meld. No 51 for 1997-98, perspectives on the development of the Norwegian fishing industry, the whole Stortinget concludes that the capture of sales and torment must increase monthly, and that this must be done through a resilient framework. This has been demonstrated both by the Minister for Fisheries and by Mr Kristiansen. When we now have reduced fishing quotas, it is clear that we need to look at the necessary measures in the whole value chain. And of measures that are really urgent, it's for the first time. upgrading existing fishing cuts and supporting the necessary new build support for the fishing environment so that they do not die out support for Russian self-representatives, including with the upgrading of shoots intensification of efforts to gain acceptance of the opinion for catches based on scientific data both nationally and internationally — it applies to both sales and qualifications And we must increase the effort when it relates to market work supporting new ideas for the exploitation of all the raw material Here, our tool has to be used in a creative way, and SND has to be central. And of course, most of all: We need to increase the research effort so that the starting point for proposing withdrawals is consistent with the reality. I don't want to say that the Minister for Fisheries is short-sighted, because the Storting has actually said that this is where the effort is to be increased, we need to put in place measures to reduce the stock. I'm glad we're pretty much agreed that this has to be done. I thought it was nice to be able to greet the new fisheries minister and say that he has the whole Storting in his back in this matter. All he has to do is take in! Although we know that it is a delicate matter, the Government and the Minister for Fisheries must wear a curved neck.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e337	It is beyond doubt that the rapidly growing population of Greenland-Self has become a serious problem for fishing in the Barents Sea. According to the new estimates, there are a total of 2.2 million seals only in the Baltic Sea, and including wavy whales, these marine mammals, as others have said, eat almost twice as much as the total Norwegian fish. The party of progress wants a very strong increase in the capture of seals. At the moment, there is a lot of evidence that annual self-anxiety should be on nearly 200,000 animals in order to obtain control. Of course, we are aware of all the barriers that need to be imposed in order to achieve this. First of all, it is necessary to agree on the size of the catch through negotiations in the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission, which is because of the fact that seals are in fact caught on the White Sea ice in the Russian zone of the Barents Sea. Last year it was decided that the total quota would be 31 600 animals, of which Norway was allocated a catch of 5000 animals. The problem was that the Norwegian self-answerers were content to catch only 1,046 animals. Thus, the total catch was only on the lower edge of 15 000 animals. However, Norwegian fishermen caught approx. 4000 animals by Jan Mayen, and even with last year's subsidies of about 13 million. The selfangers experienced red figures in the bookkeeping. There are many conditions that need to be changed to control the cell stock. The United States still has a non-tariff ban on imports of fur products. The EU's limited import bans also create problems. Norway must be able to require the United States and the EU to respect their obligations under international agreements such as the WTO. In the meantime, the problem is that only China is the market for salesmen, and there you only get about. 10 pst. of the price previously paid for the rails. Norway must also find a provision for Selmat, either as human food in the form of self-contained sausages or as animal feed. In addition, in order to intensify self-anxiety, shore-based reception facilities must be upgraded. In all likelihood, a somewhat harsher taxation of wave whales will lead to an increase in the annual quota for Norwegian Arctic cod by about 1 %. 110 000 tonnes. The consequences are probably even greater for sales, but there are no such calculations here. Several of the fish stocks are at risk, and based on the above-mentioned problems, large-scale self-anxiety will cost large sums in the future. The progress party believes we can't afford not to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e352	This interpellation is positive in that it gets more attention in the main hall about the ecological imbalance that we have here. It also brings forward the broad consensus that we need to do more than what has been done, to achieve a better balance and to exploit the resources we have in the sea and along the coast. I agree with the views and measures put forward by the Council of State. It is very positive that the Council of State will prioritise this as high as he says. The large values that are lost are one of the starting points, and the other is the increased stock estimates that we've been given. This must have consequences in those areas where we ourselves have administrative responsibilities. I consider it certain that the researchers' recommendations will follow as a result. And if there are appropriations for the researchers that are needed for them to discover this, we have to make sure they get it. Of course, we need to maintain our fishing industry, and we need to put an end to it being considered negative. The profitability has to rise, but as I said, we also have to make it positive to catch the sales. Public support is needed for a period, more than now — which is not subsidies but is investment in future fishing industries. I also think it is positive that we are thinking about the possibility of making Russia better able to operate its catch where they have administrative responsibilities. That business cooperation with their catchers is a way of doing that is well clear. Then we also need to be better able to exploit our marine mammals as a resource. This relates to product development and to the possibilities of getting the goods onto the market. But in order to do that, we also need fishing methods that are not as easy to attack as they used to be. I think it's right to mention that too. In connection with this case, I would just like to mention the problems we have with local populations of sales. We still get local emergency calls about the situation, for example. in the protection area of Froan, where there is more and more seal inside the fjords. Both professional fishermen, recreational fishermen and tourists note this. Many experiences are destroyed by the fact that the catch is small for those who are trying to get something, and the quality is poor. But this problem around the protection areas for marine mammals will come back to us in the context of the handling of the notification of protection and use in the coastal zone, which we now receive immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e367	Initially, I would like to point out that I think it is nice that the representative Ivar Kristiansen, through the interpellation, places this important theme on the Stortinges agenda. This is an area in which it has been focused and in which there have been discussions with the political leadership of the Ministry of Fisheries for a long time, cf. observations in the Perspective Communication. Different solutions have been discussed, but the conclusion has been and remains to be seen. the answer given by the Minister for Fisheries, that the simple solution is not obvious or is close to turning. Status – the perilous present situation – yes, we agree on that. Reference can be made to fresh reports showing an enormous value creation potential based on marine resources. The export of marine products, which was DKK 30 billion in the last year, can be multiplied over the next 10-20 years according to the reports. But it's under given assumptions. One of them, in my opinion, is that one gets control through increased taxation of the growing cell population. All governance should take place within a sustainable framework. With today's management model, there can never be an overall ecological balance, all the time the possibility of taxing the growth of the upper food chain, the marine mammals, is not sufficiently present. Therefore, the capture of seals and whales needs to be significantly increased. In a situation where there is a growing need for increased taxation and a signal from the fisheries authorities about a much stronger commitment, especially on self-afraid, we feel that fewer and older vessels are taking part in the fishing, in an industry dependent on significant subsidies to operate economically. On the fishing side, new concepts need to be stimulated, a combination of self-afraid, shrimp, research and despatch vessels, which was also the subject of the Minister for Fisheries. Work must be done to exploit all the harness, not just the skin. Here it has to be a new, quality proof work. The increased value of the catch must be an important keyword for good and positive development. In addition to a period of good support, research, product development focusing on better exploitation, marketing, ship renewal and industry recruitment needs to be pursued. But it's urgent. The fishing environment is beginning to be destroyed, and we all know how difficult it is to reintroduce an industry whose operators and the environment are gone. It is also important to be active in the international arena and to work towards the need, for example, for the taxation of marine mammals. the wavy shall be removed from the list of endangered species.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e382	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for bringing up this important debate, which we must have in a nation where fishing has so much to say. Otherwise, it's not all that makes sense in this world, and that marine mammals are strangely at peace, are in conflict with all the thought of rational management of marine resources. There is little help in keeping fish quotas on endangered stocks if the cell stock grows and takes care of it in the dish – and I tip it without considering quotas and the development of the cod stock. The Christian People's Party supports the measures taken by the Minister for Fisheries to increase fishing quotas and pay for self-afraid. In fact, there is – and I have said that before – the whole Biggest behind a more offensive policy. This has been said in several settings from the Business Committee in recent years. Our problem is that while cod gets the best out on a plate, the image of sweet celungs with black pearls can touch a self-heart in the parlors in California or in Paris. Now, most of it's about numbers and stocks and growth, so I'm not going to repeat it. But I want to say that I agree that the contribution to self-righteousness is the cost of ignition of income. Even without the self-anxiousness being directly profitable, it is worth increasing this catch, and there must be a budget line. Cooperation with Russia to agree on the size of the catch is of course also necessary, but most importantly in the longer term, information is needed to change the positions of world opinion and to make resources also from marine mammals to valuable catches that can be sold both as a nutritional product and as a skin.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e397	I'll mention another problem as a result of too high a cell population. In approx. 22 years there have been annual selinuations in Finland and especially in the Varanger area. It is the Greenlandic shelve that has come on its annual visits. The amount of sales has varied, but for years a lot of sales have gone into yarn, which has been destroyed, and with the result that extra work has been done and reduced. When the harness enters the shallow areas of the fjords, it also scares away the fish. A certain form of compensation for lost tools has now been paid, but this compensation has varied greatly – from 400 kroner per person. sell at 70 kroner per day. cell. Such a system should be given a firmer form, so that there are not so many variations. The scheme covers very close to actual expenditure. A strong reduction in cell stock will also address the problems I have mentioned here. I noticed that the Minister for Fisheries said that you could help to get Russian self-afraid and go, and if there is financial support you think about in this context, I hope that the Norwegian Fisheries Team will be able to support the use of the reserve in the fisheries agreement – if that is where you are going to get the money. It seems to me that maybe it's from where they're going to come. I think it would benefit the self-government if the problems were addressed in separate meetings of the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission. These meetings are held annually in November. But if you deal with the problems in special meetings between the annual Commission meetings, I think they'll get more attention, and it'll be easier to get solutions there than in the annual and more hectic meetings. If the Minister also assesses such a problem, I think it is easier to come up with solutions. I myself have been in the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission for six years and have strong faith that such isolation of the problem will benefit the entire management of the seal issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e411	It's a pleasure to sit in Stortinget and listen to this debate. That's exactly this theme that's why I've got a seat in Stortinget. For my part, I will not question any of the things that have been said, but I will try to point out something that has not been said and that is of great importance. You can ask the question, what is the reason why we have the graceful situation that we now have, which is the cause of this interpellation? I'll try to hang the bell on the cat – otherwise a fur animal that has nothing to do with self-afraid. Well, it's the protest industry with the WWF, Greenpeace and the International Fund for Animal Welfare that has put us in this situation. It is a topic that is almost unaffected by the debate. These are sacred organizations. Consider what they have exposed Norwegian fishing industry, Greenland’s fishing industry, Canadian fishing industry, Namibian fishing industry – think about what they have exposed them to when you go to the store and buy products with a panda brand, or with a label for example. the international organisation established by the WWF, called The Marine Stewardship Council, which should be, as well as the health and environmental label designed to save and prove sustainable management. I just mention it. Time's too short, I should've drawn a lot of things out here. When we talk about the whale population, the wave whale population, there's only one population of a number of other populations. I'll try to mention them by name: fin whales, whales, echinoderms, leaps, echinoderms, blue whales, green whales and sperm whales, species that are in our waters and for which there are no stock estimates and estimates of what is consumed. What the stock of cells and the wavewell consumes costs, there is no problem in documenting; there are economic calculations. The quail population was estimated to be 112,000 in 1994. Remember that – in 1994, the censuses were carried out. As far as I know, they don't use condoms or other contraceptives, so it's obvious that they've multiplied considerably. So the numbers of what's consumed are too low, and the costs are even greater. However, it is a problem to increase taxation as strongly as is necessary to reduce output. The Minister of Fisheries spoke of profitability. He can begin by presenting to the King in the Council of States the complaint on the export licence for whale products on his table.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e425	This seems to be a debate with a touching consensus. Everyone wants an ecological system in balance. We are for a proper extraction also of marine mammals, seen in an ecological system that includes not only marine mammals and fish, but is a complete ecological system. We've also established that we have quotas that we're actually just taking a fraction of, and we're discussing how we're going to be able to take out the allowances that we might have. But I thought I'd break a little bit with this touching consensus, because here the opposition is constantly dissatisfied with the government's power of action in the case of marine mammals. I remember my first election before the big shot in 1989. Then we had a fishing minister named Dark Eidem, who was severely punished by the opposition because of the fishing ban on wavy whales. It was one of the themes in the north. Then the opposition took power, with a Prime Minister from the Right and a Fisheries Minister from the Right. And nothing happened – it was tame. Then we got the ban off with a new working party government in the 1990s. But all along it has been so that the opposition has in some way not been satisfied with the power of action of the government. I think a little bit of this is in that we have some international relations that the different governments meet when they get in position, and that may make it difficult to show the power of action that many of us want, because there are some other overriding considerations we also have to take, whether it's a government from the Workers' Party, a broad bourgeois government or a centre government – so that at least we have it with us. So I think there's one thing that's important – now I'm going to ban a little more in the church – and that's that we have credibility. I think that when we're going to go out and want greater withdrawals of marine mammals, we have to have a fisheries policy that is unattainable internationally. That means that one of the important things we can do in such a strategy is that we make sure that all predatory fishing, all illegal discards, all cheats, etc. in the fisheries sector disappears, so that we have a real serious withdrawal of fish, and that everyone sees Norway as serious, in a sustainable fisheries management. Then I think we have a greater international credibility when we're going out and saying that part of this administration is also the withdrawal of marine mammals. It is a topic that no one has touched on, but I think I see a whole in this, because it is more difficult for us to have credibility internationally if we can criticise the human withdrawal of fish, namely our own fisheries policy. I think that's also a bit of our international strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e434	With regard to the agreement between Norway and Russia on the take-off of sales, I regret to say that there may not have been too much emphasis in those negotiations on what has to do with the stock of sales, otherwise I think we would have had completely different numbers on the table today, at least in terms of quota stocks. I just want to take a couple of points. The Minister for Fisheries said that it might be appropriate to look at the scheme where, when new shrimp concessions are granted, this is linked to what has to do with self-afraid. This I think is a wrong signal to give. We do not solve the problems of self-anxiety by increasing and providing overcapacity within the shrimp concessions. Here we have to be careful. Rather, we have to try the other variant, go to those who already have shrimp concessions and try to get an agreement or arrangement where they can also sell out, and do not link it to new concessions in the field. I think – as I now see the Minister for Education sitting in the Chamber as well – that the Minister for Fisheries and the Minister for Education might need to talk a little together to get real information prepared, so that at least some retired, elderly actresses in France and also some people in the United States soon realize that this is an important point that has to do with sales and fish. We have to make sure soon to get them out of the belief that if we wait a few years, they can make a longer conversation either with the harness or the whale wherever they might stay. I think information is important. I also think we have to look at the whole area of self-anxiety. We have to look at what has to do with the catch piece, which has been mentioned a lot, and we have to look at the processing of the product. It's on sale, and it's usually on feed in the farming industry, whether you can play along and develop it, because sales are very protein-rich, but we also need to develop markets and look at new markets for products. It also applies to the whale. And then it's important that we make sure that our products are allowed to export, that we get a market. There is a lot to do here, and I hope that this Minister for Fisheries is also willing to do so. It is at least one thing that is quite clear that there is an overall increase behind the Minister for Fisheries and that the more seals the Minister for Fisheries can get out of, the better it is. In the case of the researchers, who still keep on low numbers, I'm afraid they've done the same thing that happened to a certain train yesterday, you've been stuck in a snowflake.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e447	Of course, most questions are highlighted in an interpellation debate when we get so far in the timetable, but it is such an important matter that we should take advantage of the time. 240 billion kr has been sketched as a future income potential for Norwegian fishing industry in two, three decades, but these surpluses will not fall into our trap unless we work to take our part in the food chain, and that is, as rightly pointed out, in competition with marine mammals we are in this context. Then I'm a little surprised that the word "balance" is drawn. We're improperly part of this balance, and if there's to be a question of balance, it might have to be relative to whether the harness should be a threatened stock. I can't really see that that idea can fall into anyone's hands with the numbers that are now available. Although it's not full agreement, there are at least formidable populations that we're talking about. It's okay that it should be profitable, but I think it's urgent to have something done now, and this topic has been affected for years here in the Chamber. Cooperation with the Russians has also been pointed out here, and ideas have been put forward to enable the Russians to take their share of the agreed tax. I expect the Minister for Fisheries to sum up, and I might have to ask a question about this. Is it unthinkable if we first got our Norwegian system in operation, that we could also agree with the Russian authorities to take a greater part of the agreed tax in case the Russians do not take up their share? That's one of the questions that might have been elucidated. I think we have to end this with the urgency of finding a solution. It is an important key to getting at all the increase in the export curve for the fishing industry that we hope to get.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e458	I just want to take the opportunity to thank you for an inspiring and positive debate. I feel that the Minister for Fisheries now has the whole Stortinget behind in taking the measures that need to be put in place to achieve a better ecological balance in the Barents Sea. Some people here point out that there are outside conditions that have made us end up in the situation we are in, but without pointing to scapegoats here or there outside the nation, or outside the Storting, we can start by taking the part of the quota that we from the International Council of Marine Research have been recommended to take out. I also believe, as others have pointed out, that we must raise the issue much more strongly in the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission. It's also a good arena to take up these questions. As I said, I feel that the Minister of Fisheries has got the marshaller he needed to put in place a completely new and much more active policy, which can revisit Norwegian self-governing, with the final result that Fisheries Norway may have increased billions of income in store. So I thank you for a very positive debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e469	I would also like to thank you for an interesting debate. As a new fisheries minister, it is good to start with the involvement of the representatives involved in the development of the fisheries industry, the industry that will become the largest growth industry in Norway in the future. I think we should take it with us that it gives us great opportunities, but that it also gives us great challenges, and it is clear that what the representative Myrvoll mentions, that we have to take into account international framework conditions, is also at the bottom of this. We need to take into account sustainable management strategies. It's also in the bottom right here. However, in addition, we have the opportunity to take action ourselves, which both the magnificence and the government want. I will not comment on the attempts to discuss the sex lives of marine mammals, some of which were involved, but I would like to comment on some of the other issues mentioned in the discussion. Let's do it as many people want. We have launched and are in the process of implementing new measures for the development of Norwegian self-anxiety. We provide support on the ship's side, we provide support for new reception facilities based on developing new products in the industry, and we provide support for marketing. We increase the operating aid for the ships, and, as I have also mentioned, we consider combining self-afraid with other concessions, for example. rectray concessions, in order to create involvement and interest. But it has to be said that we can't live with a situation where we just rely on giving support to the industry in the future. There must be a plan to move to profitable operation. The big problem here is that we have two to four vessels in operation, they've taken up 14,000 to 15,000 animals in total – and we've given 2 million in support. kr, so there are relatively small numbers and proportions here – and then the situation is that the growth of the cell population in the Baltic Sea is 300,000 animals. That's the big paradox, and the problem we have to take over, that's why we haven't come far enough today. Although I have received marshalls from Stortinget's pulpit, which I welcome, we must also take into account that the challenges are relatively large with the framework conditions we have. But we're going to do what is possible. I'm very happy that there's so much commitment to the Storting. I think we need to create even greater commitment to the fishing industry in the future if we are to take action and get laws that allow us to develop the industry, and not least to create the basis for research as much as we need to, to cover the value creation potential that lies here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e480	That is when the debate is on case No. I'm done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e492	As rapporteur, I would just like to briefly explain the content of the matter and the position of the Committee in this matter. This concerns Norway's continued participation in the EU action programme on vocational training. The second phase of the Leonardo da Vinci programme is the continuation and renewal of the action programme on vocational training and vocational training from 1995 to 1999. The Norwegian participation in the previous programme has been good and the proceeds of the Norwegian participation in the form of project funding have been at the level of the quota. Norway has been involved in educational cooperation with the EU since 1991. In an increasingly international business, it is very important that all types of education develop the international dimension. As you can see, the Leonardo programme has been important in contributing to this also in education that has traditionally not been so internationally oriented. Although Norwegian participation in the previous programme has been good, it is important to stimulate further involvement. This applies, of course, to pupils and apprentices who are in a learning situation, but also to enterprises and educational institutions who can contribute to transnational pilot projects for the development of innovation, and to networks for the exchange of experience and good practice. With these few words, I would recommend the Stortinget to take the necessary decision to allow Norway to participate in the Leonardo programme for 2000-2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e507	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1953]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e523	The Norwegian language is difficult and lacking, and if I can allow myself to correct the President in a very central area – this is about the ‘rich’ and not the ‘skillful’ students, although this may be two sides of the same case. Let me start by saying that there is very much good in Norwegian school. We're not in any way going to blackmail what's going on in the Norwegian schoolroom. There are a lot of elephants who learn a lot, and a lot of teachers do a lot of work, but that doesn't mean we forget about the problems we're facing. Among other things, we know that a part – 15-20 pst. – by the students who leave the youth school, they can’t read properly. This concerns 8 000 to 10,000 elephants per year. It's from small problems to major dyslexia problems we're talking about, and it's unacceptable that so much goes out of school with these problems. On the other hand, it also turns out that elephants who have particularly good abilities in one or more areas are not being followed up. They don't get the stimulation in school they need to develop their abilities. The direct reason for this interpellation is an extensive survey carried out in Sweden, which shows that the Scandinavian countries are in particular the worst off when it comes to following up elephants with special abilities in one or more areas. The investigation spelled 25 countries in Europe. This review raises several important questions, and I'm going to try to take up some of those that we from the Right's side consider to be the most central ones. The first question is, is this serious? If this isn't the case, will some people ask that the good students will always be okay? Here I want to refer to more things that I think are still a problem, both from a social point of view and from the individual point of view. It's not that this is an insignificant matter. Gudmund Hernes was the leader of a public selection that came with the setting NOU 1988: 28, «With knowledge and will». At the introductory part of this announcement, Hernes says, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The challenge for Norwegian knowledge policy is that the country does not acquire sufficient competence out of the talent of the population. The results obtained are not at the level of the skills that can be developed.» The words that Hernes said there, I still think I have validity. In the international competition we face, we need the particularly capable human beings, in business, in administration, in research and in challenge. But also for the individual, poor follow-up will be a problem. Don't those who have very good abilities, it's in one or the other subject, have the same right to be taught by their own individual abilities? The image of the good students, as some people see it, is the well-suited student smiling at the teacher, who has done his homework and his nice and decorative look on his chair. These aren't the students I'm talking about first and foremost, because a lot of the students who have special abilities and who can't expand these, react with boredom, peer-to-peer, passivity, and also with excruciating activity. That's the individual side, and that's the way it is with all of us if we have to sit for ten years and not get stimulated at all. The next question I want to ask is: if the situation is as this survey shows, and as I believe it is correct, why is it that we have too bad a follow-up to the good students? Does this have a little bit to do with the grips? On 18 January 2000, the newspaper had an interview with the leader of the Teachers' Association, Anders Folkestad, where he said: «The Head of the Teachers' Association acknowledges that the Norwegian School does not meet the needs of these students. We see unusually strong professional performances as a bit of cloudiness – I can go so far as to say that we have feared elite students. We have believed that they will be competent at the expense of other students, which of course they do not." Perhaps the teacher in the Teachers Association has a point here. Is there a trick of a little bit of excessive similarity thinking that characterizes our sticks to elephants with special abilities? Are we a little afraid that human beings will evolve differently? Are we not there in the year 2000 that we can view inequality and lack as something worthwhile? Is it true that everyone should be educated to some sort of average? Everyone in this room, and I believe everyone in the country otherwise, are some that we should have an equivalent school offer. But it's not in any way the same as a similar school offer. Students are different, have different abilities, different interests, and then we don't give them an equivalent offer by giving them a similar offer. The question is: are we unwilling to implement this equivalent in practice? Or do we primarily lack knowledge of how to do this? If we are going to be able to do something with organisational or, more importantly, with educational differentiation within the same class or in other ways, I think we should not just, but we have to, we have a duty to do something about this, both in terms of individuals and in terms of society. So that's the last question, and then I'm a little bit into what is the Council of State's task, and that's giving an answer. But in this context, I would like to make a few comments on what might be done in this important field. One is that we must have a debate on this. We have to find out that the most capable students – and I am not talking about those who have only good abilities in all areas, but also about those who have one or more areas in which they are strong, and most of them – need to develop within the framework of Norwegian school.We have previously proposed a greater freedom of choice in the youth sphere – basic knowledge combined with the fact that those who have interest and ability to theory will get deeper into it, while those who have more practical skills will get deeper into it. I'm not going to go into this anymore, because it's a matter of its own in Stortinget. But we need to learn more about differential education, so that we do not, as we have done in this period several times when we are dealing with big business messages, find that with regard to content, we are sadly short when it comes to the development of both pedagogical methods and differentiation pedagogics. We have to get the positive hold that this is important, that this means something. We have to get it into the teacher's education, we have to get it into the school, we have to get it into the political life, because it has been incredibly little interest, both in research crunches, in political crunches, in education crunches, in order to take special care of those who have these abilities that they have the right to develop, and which the country so definitely needs. The school reforms we have had have been very much structured – to a lesser extent on content. And as far as I'm concerned, one of the church, expatriation and research committees agreed that this had to be more important for years to come. There is no lack of positive words about customised teaching, about differentiated teaching. In public documents and in political debates for 25 years, we have said that this is important, that this is something we want. But the question is sometimes, I feel: Do we prefer not to come to reality when we have to start to differentiate in practice, start making some choices, start adding up to something that causes inequality, but which thus promotes equivalency? Governments have been very good at using Norwegian literature in lyrics in their staging messages. The councils have also been good at using quotations from Norwegian literature in very many ways that he writes to our committee. That's why I want to end -- for once -- with a quote from Bjornsen and that applies to the differentiated pedagogy, where the Bear in a fallit. says: ‘Now the time of the phrases should be over.’ And I hope that the Council of State's answer will be a start at the next phase – from talking to practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e568	The representative, Mr Løvik, addresses an important and challenging question in the interview. I do not take it badly, of course, if he tries to help me with my task, which is to answer. I also take a positive look at his use of Norwegian literature – now he probably got hurt to express that name a little wrong, he said Bjørnsen, and I assume it was Bjørnson he meant. And then it'll be up to the interpellant to evaluate, that's once again so it's the representatives that have to evaluate. The survey to which the representative refers is based, not on specific student data, but on a questionnaire to the European countries on the situation and actions of this student group. Researchers in Scandinavia are characterized by a tradition where egalitarian values are stronger than in Europe otherwise. For Norway, the characteristics that have been given are largely based on an assessment of the ten-year basic school curriculum, L97, which the researchers believe reinforces the egalitarian features of the Norwegian school. It's gonna be a lot of stuff. also shown that we don't have our own special schools for particular powerful elephants. Regardless of this review, I think we're dealing here with questions and challenges that we have to take seriously. In the basic school, all children and young people should be able to join together in a ten-year school run. At the same time, the principle of equivalency implies that students have very different intentions. The principle of customised training is therefore too strong. All the elephants have to face challenges that match their abilities. In L97 it is particularly noted that this also applies to those with particular difficulties or special abilities in different areas. We have to recognize that this is a demanding goal. Research shows that we have not come far enough in this work, as the interpellant pointed out. Data from an international study of student performance in real science, the TIMSS project, suggest that in this country we have about as many very good students in natural sciences, 8th grade, as the international average. When it comes to mathematics, Norway has a much lower proportion of very good elephants. When it comes to these subjects, the researchers have made the assessment that with regard to the part of good elephants, we differ little from countries that are natural to compare ourselves with, the Nordic countries. The researchers also believe that there is no reason to be concerned about the level of performance in real-life education among the very best students in the Norwegian Elementary School. The principle of individual adaptation allows for different treatment and deepening of the work with the subject, as well as variation in nature, difficulty, amount, pace and progress. By means of local concreteisations and options, a deeper and complementary teaching material can create more demanding professional challenges for particularly capable elephants. In addition, the optional subject will give students the opportunity to choose and deepen themselves in new languages and areas of activity or to strengthen their competence in areas where they already have a basis. Here is the room for individual professional development large. The «choice of schools and pupils» scheme shall include: Allows students to choose activities according to their own interests and preferences. Students may be associated with, among others: deepening the field of knowledge in a subject or across professional boundaries. It has also been said in L97 that at the youth level projects can relate to continuing training are current choices. We put great emphasis in our school on stimulating the self-employment of students. Entrepreneurship can promote creativity and innovation. Entrepreneurship allows elephants with different abilities and interests to develop their abilities and gain new knowledge and insight through right-of-action tasks. Some ways of working provide, more than others, a room for professional deepening and choice. This could be done, for example, by: This is done through project work, which gives students large arms both when it comes to choice of problem fields, approaches and professional deepening. Here it is important to exploit the abilities and interests of each individual. Use of ICT provides room for individualisation and active, exciting learning. By way of exception: The Internet can provide students with access to materials that can challenge different abilities and aspirations and stimulate self-help and professional deepening. The same applies to active use of the school library. In addition, the gifted students can have stimulating challenges by being helpers for others — perhaps younger ones as well. There is an important learning value in communicating your own knowledge and insight to others. The main challenge is to make use of the openings provided by the legislation for varied training and for choice and deepening in a creative way, so that particularly capable elephants can also be well trained. There is a need to meet the range of challenges facing students through local renewal and flexibility in the organisation and organisation of training. At the same time as the laws provide that all the elephants are to right in a class community, the daily training can be organised in different and flexible ways. One might, for example: the exchange between individual work, group work and class instruction. In some cases, large classes and collection of age groups may be relevant. You can also use work sessions of different lengths. It is important to use the format of differentiated training provided. I would like to welcome all local development work aimed at providing all pupils with better training. It also applies particularly to powerful elephants, so that they can get appropriate and stimulating tasks. I know there are examples of good action. In one of the municipalities, a system of placement of math-fine students in the business community one day a week. In another municipality you can try out more advanced courses and seminars with professional deepening in parts of the time. In St.meld. No 28 for 1998-99, adapted training has been highlighted as one of four areas for enhanced efforts for quality development in the school. The financial resources made available by the State shall stimulate and support local projects aimed at creating better learning and development for the individual student. In addition, the renewal of teacher training plans places great emphasis on the ability of teachers to provide training tailored to the needs of pupils. At the same time, I am open to consider local desire to try out alternative solutions that go beyond the existing legislation, with a view to providing a particularly capable student with good learning conditions. As you know, the test facility in the training law provides access to it. Through experimental and development work, we will gain more knowledge of how to provide good training also to special skilled elephants. The review in relation to the interpellant's problem shows that in our school complex there are great possibilities to carry out what is interpellant's wish, to take care of the whole talent of the individual and of the population. So I also said in my answer that this isn't so that we've reached the goal, and that it's a long way to go. And of the things that have happened in the last couple of years in relation to a larger opening here, I'm going to take three points: the one is to a greater extent getting space and opening for a local development work and initiating this, like that we've made funds available to some degree in relation to this. Furthermore, the new ICT plan provides a four-fold focus on economic efforts, with a specific focus on content and a development work where both ICT developers and ICTs in the other disciplines have great potential. Furthermore, we have the investment we are now going to have in the youth sphere, where we are in a completely new way increasing the effort with regard to the empowerment of teachers. So I'm in agreement with the interpellant that the question is important, and that we haven't come far enough. But I think that the grips we're about to take, and the development work that's now in progress, will carry us on. However, there is a great deal of anxiety and expectation that things will happen here, so it is good that the issue is put on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e610	I thank you for your reply from the Council of State. It wasn't directly negative, but I feel that the Council of State may have a little bit of difficulty in getting rid of it when it comes to this, coming a step beyond that level – the verbal level – we've been in the last 25 years. The councils were in on this with egalitarian values, and we're going to put them high, they mean a lot. But sometimes I feel that they may, as they have been interpreted, get in the way of what is important to the individual human being, to develop themselves on their own premises. I'm glad that the Council of State admitted that research shows that we're not far enough when it comes to adapting education, differentiated training or what we're going to call it. It has been said very well in L97, and the Council of State said we should take advantage of the legislation that exists. And then I would like to ask: does that mean that today's legislation is good enough for this? It's the one. The Council of State was also involved in trials around this, and refers to the experimental shelter in the Training Act, and it is positive, and it is good. Here are some local experiences that have produced quite good results in these areas. But the question is whether we don't have to put this more strongly on the agenda, with more systematized research, because in Norway there is almost no research into the special abilities of students and how these students should be followed up. We should go into the pedagogical differentiation on a broad basis, and then, of course, we have to look at the organisational differentiation, even though I know that the Civil Ombudsman has just had clear meanings about what we mean when it comes to this in a class in Vestfold. Now I know that it is no longer allowed to make suggestions in connection with an interpellation. But since the Council of State is able to think hypothetically, I have a question for him. If the representative Løvik makes this proposal, the government is asking the Government to intensify its efforts to promote stronger differentiation in the Norwegian school. This must include trials, research and changes in teacher training and continuing training. – How will the Council of State view such a proposal? Is this, according to the opinion of the Council of State, a priority area for years to come? Are we on our way well enough? We're on our way, says the Council of State, and we've been for 25 years. But we don't get off the spot, and that has to be a little bit of a joke. Are the decisions that have been made good enough to move forward in this area, or does the Council of State now have to take special action to move forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e621	First of all, with egalitarian values. I am pleased that the interpellant also clearly underlined the value and importance of maintaining the equivalency that has the basis for Norwegian education policy and Nordic education policy. I share the definition that the interpellant had in relation to not being equal, but that the equivalency should be at the bottom. So in the context of what I said about exploiting the legislation, ask the interpellant: Is today's legislation good enough? No, but we've done a lot of softening here, and so we'll try out what's now going on. What's our softness? Yes, we do. said that we can look over the years, and we have said a lot of other things about how you can work according to the pattern plan, in the regulation we have now sent out. It's in three-four areas that there are significant softenings, which in Norwegian school are very well received. Similarly, in a commendable way, the Storting has also adopted the experimental paragraph that I am promoting in my first education policy distribution, which means that we see a lot happening out there. So I mean there's basically far greater possibilities within today's legislation than many people have believed; we've tried to make it known. However, among others: the case in Westfold, which the representative of Løvik mentioned, also shows that there may be a need to look at the law, but first we will see closer to it. However, there may be a need for some relaxation, and the evaluation of Reform 97 will show that. How will the Council look at such a proposal, ask the representative Løvik. Part of the content of that presented I seriously believe that we are in the process. The interpellant says we've been on the road for 25 years, and now it's got to go faster. I believe that much progress has been made in the handling of Reform 97. I was against, and the Christian People's Party and the government party were against, compulsory schooling for 6-year-olds. But the pedagogical thinking that lies in more project-oriented student participation, etc., is important progress and can precisely facilitate that also the capable part of the students, mentioned by the interpellant, can have great potential. I mean that we're on the right track, but I can promise the interpellant that when it comes to the trials that we're going to deal with later, we're going to make sure that there are also systematic trials that are to be evaluated in relation to the problem that the interpellant is dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e632	The main point of the representative, Mr Løvik, that we should take good care of and encourage the good students, is basically noble, and no one in this Chamber disagrees. But in addition to taking good care of the theory, it is important that the school should take care of those who are not so theoretically good, and that the school should encourage and stimulate those students who are generally good. Overall, school training shall be adapted to the abilities and prerequisites of each individual student and apprentice. It is established in the purpose paragraph of the Training Act. So it's important to ask, is school able to do that today? I would like to stress that throughout the country there are an incredible number of competent and conscientious teachers, who contribute to motivation, and who lay the foundation for curious and knowledge-loving students to learn more and have a good professional development. But at the same time, there are many teachers who are frustrated, because they feel that there is no money for excursions, for project tasks, and for dividing the class into smaller groups. Through the media and various studies, we have seen that many schools and municipalities reduce the provision of special education, in teaching studio metals, in sharing hours, and they cut in the temporary budget. This is a development that concerns us in the Workers' Party, and we have therefore proposed that action be taken to ensure an equivalent school offer. This proposal is under discussion in the Education Committee, and we shall have it finalised before 22 February. It is well and good that the Right is occupied with the good students. But before the Right and the representative Løvik become more concrete, it's just words that separate what we stand together about: equivalent training and adapted training. I am therefore interested in what the Right believes when you ask them to become more concrete. What does the Right really mean by the term ‘differentiation’? If that's how Right will go in to divide students into a-classes and b-classes, into a-schools and b-schools based on grades on standardized tests, for example. – yes, then there is a big difference. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that we have a common school for all, because we are convinced that all students can learn something from each other and complement each other in a community. Some students are good in theory, some students are good at being creative, some are very good at working well socially. The challenge will therefore be to ensure that the school is given the opportunity to stimulate students to develop well professionally, but that it takes place in a student community where there is room for everyone. The Labour Party has, as I said, made a proposal for equivalent school provision, and it is a proposal that the Right has the possibility – if they wish – to join the Workers' Party in strengthening Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e647	I am pleased that the representative Løvik promoted precisely this interpellation; it is an important matter he addresses. It's a fact that we have a school law that says you should take care of them with special difficulties, but you shouldn't in any way forget them with special abilities. It means that even those who are "floating" in any case. the type of education is entitled to something better than what they receive today. It's interesting what the government here says, that Norway has as many very good students as other countries in the world. But this is a kind of defensive thinking, because the interesting question is, could we with a better differentiation have had even more very good students, and would increase the number of interested, innovative very good students, for example. have led to the fact that we had not had a situation today where we lack recruitment in almost every field, including in research? We should actually think about this a little bit. So the Council of State says that opt-out would give you an opportunity to improve your skills. That's quite right, but when we get into the municipalities, the optional course depends on the teacher's competence in the individual school, in the individual class, and it also depends on the general municipal economy, which is the priority of local politicians, perhaps more than what we say here in the hall. For there must be some reality in professional immersion at a high level for students, the knowledge of teachers must be proportionate to the level. They do not do so in very many cases around Norway, which is why the opportunities for children with special abilities may be lower than for those with special difficulties. I say "maybe" worse, because it's a fact that pedagogical psychological service in a lot of municipalities, despite what we decided to do in the context of raising the centres of competence, has broken back. I think we have to go more closely into this, be willing to differentiate both for the weak and for the best in a completely different way than today. But this may mean that instead of thinking that equivalent training is equal to economics, we think that equivalent training is offering a variety of options – more types of schools than the single school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e660	All students have the right to adapted training, and the Christian People's Party believes that those students who have special abilities need to make use of these so that they experience using themselves and their abilities, and so that they too have the challenging goal of reaching out. Differentiated education and individualised learning arrangements shall also apply to the particularly talented group of pupils. We agree with the inter-pellant that it is important both for individuals and for an increasingly knowledge-based society. I dare to see a little doubt that the interpellant is right in saying that the follow-up of talented students is as bad as it is claimed. At least I believe that the school is in positive development in this field as well. And when the interpellant says that nothing has happened in 25 years, I don't think he's completely oriented. The Christian People's Party must point to the value of having schools and classes composed of students with, among other things. different equipment, and the social learning in being able to cooperate across inequalities. Follow-up of capable students must go hand in hand with such principles. The representative, Løvik, asks what can be done to ensure adapted education for high-quality students. The answer is already contained in new plans, laws and regulations that are underpinned by flooding and the department. The school therefore knows what to do, and it should have the possibilities in its hand. Economics can limit what you can do, but I think the biggest challenge is to translate theoretical concepts into practical pedagogics. In the first place, it is the teacher who needs to be creative, adopt new and different forms of teaching, exchange ideas and make use of the new central resource bank, and not least the students themselves need to be included in the planning of learning material. There should be great opportunities, especially for the capable students. When working with local curricula, project work, optional subjects, school and student choices, use of the Internet and various computer programs, education can be better adapted to individual students. It offers greater opportunities to work from their own point of view, skill and professional. Schools today can also test specific arrangements for high-quality students through the test paragraph. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the school has had more room for action. Specific local conditions may be taken into account, and the school may be more easily able to provide individual students with challenges at a level commensurate with the capability of equipment in different areas. Fulfillment of the objectives of the curricula suggests more individualised plans. The Christian People's Party is working for a school where all students experience being challenged to acquire new knowledge based on the level at which they are at, where labour demands are to be roughly equal, but where goals and results will be different.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e679	I agree with the interpellant that it is important to promote both equivalency and understanding of inequalities. But we want to strengthen and develop the whole human being, not just the theory part. The idea of integration is important – the students will, after all, participate in different forums in society outside school and when school time is over. Learning through cooperation is important. The theories also give important impulses and lessons to the community. I've seen a lot of articulate examples of that. There's another thing I've become more and more concerned about lately. We see it in the article, and now there is a new book, «On the trail of the new time», which says that what we will lack in the future is knowledge and competence. But when I go into the material and read it, I get a sense that the knowledge we're talking about is purely theoretical knowledge. Then I'll be scared. We have to discuss the concept of knowledge a little bit further. We're not all going to be scientists and computer engineers. And I'm sure that the future society will need action in the unexpected situations of practical orientated and competent people. We have to be careful not to develop a new kind of illiteracy. Here, perhaps many of those that we perceive as theoretically weak can be the strong ones, and they can also give important lessons to the theoretically strong. But I agree that the good ones have to be released more, and there I think maybe the teachers have to be less system-based. I have even seen a very strong math student who had his own systems in his head, who was inhibited during the development that he was going to follow everything exactly -- set up the maths in it and that way. He was at home for many years – until he came to high school and got a new teacher who said: Yes, I don't understand how he expects to do it, but I think it's best for him to develop his own system. That's what I want more of. Here I want to support the previous speaker: we have to go in and make the teachers aware. The school provides much greater opportunity today for such things. And Reform 97, with a new curriculum where a greater degree of project work, opens up a wide range of approaches, where students at different levels can work together with the same project, but with different levels of difficulty and with different instruments. I actually see the introduction of projects, which we've had in recent years, as something very good, which has been a real vitamin injection in Norwegian school. Entrepreneurship and district schools are also something that we also need to develop more. And then I've also seen the interesting thing that less theory can give better theoretical knowledge if the weakened part of theory is filled with practical work. I think it's important that we maybe also research it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e692	Petter Løvik concluded by quoting Bjørnson that the time of phrases should soon be over. Petter Løvik has had two posts gathered in more than 10 minutes, and he has at least made no attempt to meet Bjørnson's wish that the time of the phrases should be over. Because when the Right is talking about differentiation, what are they really talking about? Petter Løvik gave no answer. But if we read in the Right Programs, we find some answers. In August 1997, the right adopted a 10-point proposal on how to create the ‘best school in the world’. There's the two points that say something about differentiation, and there's the points 4 and 5, that I have to read. Point 4 reads as follows: ‘Teaching peace at school. Several special classes and schools for pupils with behavioural disabilities.’ And point five. ‘Training needs to be adapted to the needs of the learners. Schools must be able to use level differentiation.’ There is a Right answer when it comes to differentiation: special schools and classes for pupils with behavioural difficulties and level differentiation. These are old suggestions. We who have lived for a while remember the old high school where one tried this out with level differentiation in terms of planned classes. We left this, and we went over to cohesive classes. I think we should stick to that – it is a good principle that students meet. But then we're also going to be able to open up differentiation and adapted training. We didn't make it there. Neither those who are theoretically good, well motivated, nor those who are not so theoretically good, and not so well motivated, get the training they need. And then we have to ask the question, what is the problem? I want to point out two things that I think are absolutely central: First, there is the resource situation. In classes with 0.6 hours for sharing in youth, there is no training that can be adapted — that is, everyone understands. In that you only have 0.6 hours to share – and there are several municipalities that have – one of the main problems. Because we don't have enough resources to divide the classes, to organize the groups, they don't get the customized training they're going to have. Secondly, we need to address our centralist agency, which prevents and makes it difficult to find local organisation. We have a contract agency that provides strong leadership, and that prevents local organisation, so that one can find good ways to organize and good ways to conduct education. The two things are the biggest challenges if we're going to be able to provide well-adapted training: the resource situation and the fact that we're getting a contract work. We then get greater local freedom, greater local diversity. It may not be the school of unity that we're supposed to take care of, but we're going to take care of the school of equality and diversity. That's the challenges. SV has the answers. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e715	I noticed that Rolf Reikvam swung up to the high altitudes, but about things we get back to in the treatment of the recruitment message. It is positive that the representative Løvik draws attention to a group of students who need a different type of follow-up than what we normally think about when we talk about customised training. For the Left, it is a very important principle that the individual needs of the students must always be the starting point of the education offered. On that basis, it is important to take advantage of the opportunities for differentiated education provided by the L97 and by the Training Act. The left is by no means the permanent differentiation of student groups or level-based school-leaving classifications, as also prohibited by the Training Act. However, the legislation we have must not prevent the use of differentiated education as a educational tool when it can be right to ensure that pupils receive appropriate training. All Norwegian schooling must aim to give each student equal opportunities for development, not to achieve as much equality as possible. As the Council of State points out, it is important that the objective of adapted education applies to all pupils, because the average schooling does not exist. Some have good prerequisites for acquiring theoretical expertise — some in general, others have special interests that allow them to be appointed in some disciplines. Some students may be weak in theory, but have special prerequisites for working in a community. Some are both professionally and socially strong, some are none of the parts. The main challenge for the Norwegian school is to facilitate the follow-up, the challenges and the social community that provide them with a good starting point for the future. The regulatory framework allows for greater diversity in training methods than is likely to be used in many schools. Our task as politicians at national level must be to stimulate schools and teachers to make use of the opportunities that exist. I'm sure the Council of State sees this as an important task.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e736	I registered that the interpellant raised many questions. And I guess it's not the interpellant's job to answer their own questions, so clearly I also understood what he said in his main post. On the other hand, the Council of State answered some of the questions, and in my view they were entirely in line with what the Labour Party stands for in today's school policy. I also think it is important to bear in mind that these are very challenging things that we have on the agenda today. But I feel that the interpellant let itself be somewhat low in relation to what the Right really stands for. It is quite right, as the representative Rolf Reikvam said, that they have a much stronger political profile in the programme of education policy than the one that Mr Løvik said today. The main question raised by the representative, as I understood it, was this: how are we going to be able to promote the inequality and at the same time maintain the equivalence? I also put the idea that the interpellant put much more emphasis on the first than the last. And I think that is in fact in line with Right-wing policy. At least in the school policy debates I've followed Right over many years, enough is the promotion of inequality ahead of the concept and the intention of equivalence. At the same time, I also think it is important to stress that the report on which the interpellant is based today is difficult to use for comparison in Norway. There are 25 countries that have been the starting point for this survey. And I must say that I fully agree with the Council of State that if you want to have a comparison that is real with Norwegian school, that is the Nordic model we should be starting from. And we have, as it has been promoted by many, a law and a regulation in Norwegian school that should be able to take care of the interests, precisely the inequalities, where the need is present. There I have to say that I agree with the representative, Mr Rikvam; it is not on the legislation or the laws; there is probably a great deal of lack of resources to achieve the objectives and wants the majority of the population to have had the legislation, and now the school debate has become so high on the agenda that the resources have to follow. In conclusion, when the interpellant says that nothing has happened in Norwegian school in 25 years, it tells more about the starting point of the interpellant than the debate and the development that has been in Norwegian school in the last 25 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e747	Learning is a lifelong process. And if you're going to have a measure of how far we succeed and fail in our school policy, you have to put that perspective. One of the issues that gives rise to concern is the ever-increasing number of messages coming from our universities and colleges, no later than just now after the New Year, regarding the dramatic increase in the percentage of deletions when students begin a university or higher education course. It has little purpose to discuss whether it reflects a development or a difference in relation to past and present. What everyone can agree on is that it shows that we do not succeed in putting the majority of students on the trail of a self-sustaining learning process through Norwegian school, and that should worry us. This shows that many people who, after 13 years of Norwegian school, have not learned to organize their own work have not learned to facilitate their own learning process. There is nothing that speaks for the work hypothesis that Norwegian youth today has less learning potential than before. Then there's only one explanation that's possible: the learning potential is not triggered by the way we run the school. My experience is that this is extra eye-catching in terms of the average of students who have particularly good prerequisites for learning. There's the distance between their potential and their actual performance is the greatest and easiest to see. That's why it's the basic question, in my opinion, whether we have a school policy that really takes care of the opportunities that live in the individual, whether they go primarily in a practical, aesthetic or theoretical direction. The answer to that – I think I have heard from most of the articles, especially Rolf Reikvam’s articles – is quite clearly no. We're not going to be able to take care of the learning opportunities by the way we do the problem today. Then I am a little surprised that the Council of State is going so far as to declare itself satisfied. Because if we've done the necessary steps, if we've given the adequate freedom, what is it that makes us unable to make it work? And what is the Council of State's idea of what he can do as the responsible Council of State to promote attitudes to what is important, other than those that characterize high school students today? It is true that when they are interviewed in the newspapers, most people respond that their future dream is to end up in a position where they make the most money for the least possible effort. And this ‘minimum effort’ is a deafeningly poor result of schooling.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e758	The starting point for this interpellation was the research that shows that elephants with special abilities are undergoing poorer follow-up. It has certainly been a good idea to note this, even though some have had counter-representatives, among other things. that we should compare ourselves with the Nordic countries and not use Europe, because it becomes too difficult. Then we'd knock out all year old babies with the bath water, because that's exactly where the problem lies. The Scandinavian countries have a worse follow-up than the rest of Europe of elephants with special abilities. I would like to comment on some of the articles that have come, never so little. Synnove Konglevoll said we're a little concrete. It is probably a question that the Council of State is working to answer, to which more people have been asked. We need more resources, we need more resources, we need more resources into Norwegian school. But in addition, I have previously mentioned this in my article with the educational freedom for both students and teachers, that it will make the school day more interesting and make recruitment easier. And we have to figure out that it's positive to be different; I think maybe that's the most important thing, and there we have a big challenge. The representative Anne Brit Stråtveit and the representative Rune E. Kristiansen say that the signatures have said that nothing has happened in Norwegian school in 25 years, and that I am ill-orientated. I've never said it that way, but I've said that we've been talking about custom education for 25 years, and now we have to try to get a little bit further. And it seems to us that more people are seeing today. The representative Rikvam is going into the Right Program. Now it's always easier to make a myth and argue against it than to argue against the realities, so let me make a few comments to the representative Rikham. The representative Reikvam says that Right will have special classes for people with special behavioral difficulties. Yes, we already have that today, and we should keep going on with that. This may be more useful, but it is not the main problem. The problem is in class. The representative then says that the Right wants level differentiation. Yes, of course we want level differentiation, but it doesn't mean new syllabus, as it was. But if a learner thinks that a student or a group of elephants are a little weak in an area, they have to sit down for a few hours and work with it. If he has a group, Rolf and some of his friends who are weak in classical form, and another group, Petter and some of his friends who are weak in Marx, they must be allowed to work with this in particular, based on their abilities, to get up to the level of the others. One concrete thing said the Council of State, and I would like to challenge him a little bit. The Council of State said that what he wants to promise is that in an experiment one will now look for systematic trials to evaluate the follow-up of the good students. I'd like to make it concrete a little bit. Will there be more systematic work on which we can build?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e771	Yes, I'd like to start by confirming the last, that in the trials we have, we also want to see that we have some tests that systematically evaluate and follow up that page, but according to the principles underlying Norwegian school legislation, that one does not differentiate by such a system. But that one can have such an incentive scheme, I'm set up in the trials that we're now in the process of approving and initiating. It has been exciting to listen, and what's happy is that it's a pretty big deal to keep an equivalent school offer, with equal offers and equal opportunities for everyone, and that there's a way to go. In a very exciting article, the Inge Wohnung said that I had gone a long way in declaring myself satisfied. No, if the representative Salutation reads through the article, he will see that it was in a number of areas I said we haven't come far enough, and it shows research as well. So the representative said Wage that it's disturbing that so many people have gone through the whole basic school without learning to organize their own learning process. I'm totally in agreement with the representative. But what is the reality of this? That's exactly what it's trying to do in Reform 97 and the more project-based, student-based learning model that's been added to it. Those who have stroked at universities in these years to which reference is now being made have not been through Reform 97, they have not followed that model there. On the day we have seen Norwegian schools able to – via adequate after-school training and ICT facilities, etc. – to implement Reform 97, we need to start measuring these results again. It's worrying about part of the ironing percentage, but one doesn't have to say it's because of the arrangement that we now have. What I was pleased to say was both the content and the thinking of the curriculum, with the modifications and the initiation that both the Council of State, the Government and the Storing are now undergoing local trials, and I believe that we are clearly on the right track. So that's actually how I believe in the underlying curriculum, with the will of the current government for development work, is more able to solve the problem of the future than the kind of differentiation that we're reading from the Right School Policy Programme – which doesn't have our stress here today, and I'm glad, because it's more exciting to right on the representatives of Løvik and Wohnung than to read the Right Program.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e782	Then the interpellation debate in case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e796	In many areas, ethical values and religious questions have come to the fore in recent times, and I believe these themes too will remain central for a long time to come. In an internationalised economy with a high level of human mobility, the multicultural society will respond to both enrichments and challenges. The richness is that we learn about new customs and religions and new ways of understanding and coping with life. Concepts such as ‘respect’, ‘acceptance’ and ‘openness’ will need to be clarified in school, working life and housing if we are to master some of the challenges that come with, ethnic conflicts, segregated environments, ghetto policies, and with what may result from increased use of violence and self-esteem. Methods of conflict resolution and understanding down to the lowest level of society are required, and these are attitudes that must emerge from us by meeting so that changes can come from within and below. The quality must be built from the outset into respect for other people’s attitudes whether it should be credible and authentic. We can't talk about our own cultures without looking both outward and forward. Our own basic security and growth depends on the development of others in terms of their values, traditions and belongings. Also there we have to dry up to find new solutions. There were some of these colleges that were behind the new KRL school, where children and young people with different backgrounds, with different life views, were to meet across borders in respect of each other and in safe assurance that values that are with and characterize a child's identity were to be treated with respect. The diversity and multicultural nature of our time call for different solutions, but also for meeting across borders. Thus, Christian knowledge of religious and life - vision education was introduced to create an arena where students with different beliefs and views of life were together in order to achieve dialogue, acceptance and insight in the different views of different religions. Today’s interpellation concerns two aspects: the Council of State has, through various letters, invited a private Christian institution to become a focal point institution for a public school subject – that is, the one that will help to further develop the subject, for the school’s subjects, and that the Ministry has overlooked the state colleges that are responsible for general teacher training in this field. A small reconstruction: neither the Human-Ethical Federation nor the minority groups had any place in the sample that provided the basis for the subject – the Pettersen Committee. This has had repercussions and led to sustained skepticism from those groups. Furthermore, teacher training was ensured by 10 weights in general teacher training for which the higher education institutions are responsible. It was a prerequisite that we had to ensure the breadth of the professional competence to serve the subject, both for professional reasons and for the legitimacy of the subject. KRL is a school subject, and it has caused confusion that a Christian private educational institution is invited by the ministry to take care of the further development of the subject. It follows from this that the Ministry of State gives a signal that the subject is drawn towards church environments and Christian organisations, which are, of course, the owners of the Faculty of Publicities, while it is the subject of the School of Unity. It could also lead to an unwanted profile for the subject that the subject is re-armed by Christianity. Again, an unfortunate signal effect, not least to minorities. We shouldn't need any more prejudices to fight with regard to this subject. As you know, the evaluation mission is also given to the Norwegian Teacher Academy. The Council of State will probably say that the assignment has not been given to the College of Teachers by him, but by a separate professional body within the responsibility of the Council of State. To this is to say that it doesn't change the image of decisions following a pattern that probably won't reduce scepticism. There's no lucky situation. The psychological effect is obviously not given weight if it has been assessed at all. And it's essentially saying that. KRL is a school subject where state universities are primarily responsible for training general teachers who serve the subject. It is important to ensure the breadth of professional competence. In 1997 the University of Oslo was responsible for continuing training within the CRL. The theological faculty has established a very effective reference group with participants from both the University of Oslo, from the University of Bergen and from the teacher training courses at the universities of Oslo and Bergen. The groups are also responsible for the so-called CRL network, which is widely used. I would think that the focal point function should lie with the public institutions, which were also supposed to renew, maintain and train for a broad approach. We don't have to reinforce the unfortunate signals to critics of the subject now. The area of expertise would rather need a boost, a lifting of liberalism. We are in many ways as a society within a phase of shift of consciousness. It's up to us all through dialogue to secure and renew, and we ourselves have everything to win. Continuing the state council to go on for him just well-known fields, I'm afraid that he just proves that this subject he actually has no interest in further developing. And I'm excited about the answer that the Council of State will give here today, and whether he will make sure, among other things. the higher education institutions responsible for the CRL in teacher training are also given the opportunity to participate and contribute to the further development of the subject. It must be an ethical dilemma that we live in a society where the gap between people is increasing, both globally and nationally. Neither of us lives so long that we haven't done anything. That's why we have to use time and energy well while we have it. It's never going to be better than what we're doing in common. A common science of value and religion that can gather all the children in public school, I hope is something that can be further developed. The procedure adopted by the Council of State in the case of CRL is very doubtful.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e815	Fact-finding Christianism with religious and life views is a central subject in the school, and the idea is that it should five all students without regard to ethnicity and life views. It is right that the subject has been met with some scepticism. Not least because of this, I would like to stress that both the evaluation and the further development of the subject are important to me. In the interpellation, the representative Grete Knudsen takes up two special aspects of the KRL subject. The first concerns the treatment of the CRL subject in relation to the evaluation of Reform 97. The second is on the node function of the subject. In these contexts it is important to be aware of this: The task of carrying out the reform 97 evaluation has been given to the Norwegian Research Council, in line with its stated wish. The Node Functions for the various disciplines determine the Department. I want to comment on both aspects of my answer, and start with the evaluation of the CRL subject. Both the Ministry and the Stortinget requested an independent and research-based evaluation of Reform 97. In 1998, the Ministry then commissioned the Norwegian Research Council to carry it out. The Research Council organised the work on the evaluation as an own research programme. A program manager has been appointed with a number of researchers, including a foreign researcher. In addition, users are represented by one of the teachers' organisations, one of the parents, one of the local authorities' Central Association and one of the representatives of the department. A leader has also been added. The purpose of the programme is: identify changes and developments that provide a background for further planning, adjustment and follow-up of the primary education sector to assess whether the different solutions chosen are capable of achieving objectives that are set to point to strengths and weaknesses and the unintended positive and negative effects of bringing forward improvement points proposals and actions related to them; Stortinget bad – cf. Inner. S. No 103 for 1995-96 — on a specific evaluation of the CRL subject after three years. Of course, for the whole of Reform 97, it will be over the entire period of reform. The letter of assignment from the Ministry of Research specifically pointed this out, and the Research Council followed it up in the call. The CRL subject is evaluated both in its own evaluation and as part of the joint evaluation of Reform 97. The specific evaluation of the KRL subject will be completed in the autumn 2000. In the publication of the project tools for the specific evaluation of the CRL subject, the Research Council wrote that the evaluation should clarify how the training in the subject has been carried out, how the exemption rules for the subject have been practised, and what conditions parents have been given to enforce the parental right within this subject. The invitation went, as you can see, to the areas which have been most prominent in the public debate. The invitation went to colleges and universities, with a deadline of 15 April 1999. Nine applications were submitted, five of which were from state high schools. Many of the environments that were invited were not searched. The reasons for this may be several: short application period short project period lacking competence or interest in evaluations of this kind Based on professional assessments, the Board of Programmes, as I have quoted earlier, found that the applications from the Norwegian Academy of Teachers, the Højskulen in Volda and the Diakonhemmet Research Institute – Diaforsk – were the best. The latter two were asked to create a joint project based on the applications. On this basis, a project was started at the Norwegian Teacher Academy and a collaboration project between Diaforsk and Højskulen in Volda. As part of the overall evaluation of the reform, there are also other environments, including: The Hedmark High School project has been approved with relevance for the evaluation of the KRL subject. These projects have just started, and it is too early to say more about them now. In the following, based on the information I have received, I will give a brief description of the work of the Norwegian Academy of Teachers and Diaforsk/Högskulen in Volda so far. Both environments indicate that they have put a great deal of emphasis on getting information about the CRL subject from parents, elephants and teachers. The informants are selected in such a way that people with different life views are able to respond. Special emphasis has been placed on information from parents related to different beliefs and beliefs and parents representing different minorities. The researchers inform us that they have been in contact with the Cooperation Council for Creeding and Living Societies, and that they are planning to meet with others. The Mosaic Religion, the Human-Ethical Federation and the Islamic Council of Norway. As mentioned earlier, the Ministry has facilitated a research-based evaluation of Reform 97 and has commissioned the Norwegian Research Council. This is in line with the Stortinge's wish. That's what I have now taken the consequences of. It is totally inappropriate for me to review the decisions made by the Research Council Programme Board. It would have been a violation of the provisions on independent evaluation, and it would also have been wrong in relation to the Stortinget's desire. I find it right here to mention that, in a letter to the Research Council, and with a copy to me, the Cooperation Council for Religious and Human Rights has expressed that the choice of institutions can be perceived as an unfortunate signal, not least in relation to the discussion of the right to a total or partial exemption. But they don't doubt the evaluations the Research Council has given by the relevant departments. They also do not want the ministry to overdo the assessments and decisions of the Research Council. But they underline the importance of listening to the perceptions of trust and life in the evaluation. Based on this, I am confident that the Research Council has managed the reform 97 evaluation in a good way. When it comes to the focal point function of the CRL subject, I can inform you: In 1996 a working group was commissioned by the Ministry to monitor the competence and distribution of existing specialities and to advise on the allocation of node functions in the field of teacher training. When the blatant knowledge of Christianity, the working group stated that there was a relatively large volume in the subject of teacher education, the professional level of education, as a whole, was relatively low, and the group indicated that few higher education institutions had more than half a year of deepening in the subject. The working group found that the Hochskulen in Agder had the greatest breadth and professional competence in Christian knowledge, and recommended that the Hochskulen in Agder be assigned the focal point function for Christian knowledge with a view of life. The Ministry did not follow up on this recommendation from 1996. in the primary school and in the teacher's education were being transformed. When government budgets were allocated node functions in 1995 and 1998, private budgets were not included in the assessment. Many of these had applied for node function, and the Storting had given a clear signal that even the private spheres could be assigned node function upon application. In 1998, all the private institutions wishing to handle the node function were invited to submit documented and up-to-date applications. The Theological Faculty of Society applied for node function for three subjects, one of which was Christian knowledge with religious and life-oriented orientation. The Ministry's preliminary assessment of the application was that it was not appropriate to give the theological faculty sole responsibility as a national focal point institute for Christian knowledge with religious and life-oriented orientation. On the other hand, the Ministry assessed this subject in such a way that it could focus on fruitful professional cooperation between two different institutions. The Ministry asked the Norwegian Web Council to assess a system of shared focal responsibility between the Faculty of Culture and the University of Bergen, based on the professional focus of these institutions within the respective Christian and Religious sciences. The Ministry asked the Norwegian Network Council to initiate a process in which the two institutions together assess the basis for establishing professional cooperation, decide whether they want to share the focal point responsibility, and in the event how a shared responsibility can be managed as best as possible. Once this process, which is currently under way, has been completed and the Norwegian Network Council has recommended the matter, the Ministry will decide. Previously assigned node functions are now under evaluation by the Norwegian Network Council, and the Ministry will therefore not invite new rounds of applications until an assessment of the impact of professional node responsibility has been made. If we come to the conclusion that we want to maintain and expand this system, I do not see anything to prevent one or more state colleges from applying for, and getting, focal point responsibility for the CRL in teacher education, for example. with a weight of didactics. To sum up, I would say: the representative Grete Knudsen has understood it so that the Council of State has given the Norwegian Teacher Academy responsibility for the evaluation of the KRL subject. As mentioned, it is the Research Council, and not the Ministry, which has independently assessed and taken decisions on who should be entrusted with the evaluation of Reform 97. The Research Council placed a decisive emphasis on the quality of applications from the different institutions when awarding contracts. The representative Grete Knudsen goes on to say why I don't want to treat Christianism with religious and life-oriented orientation in the same way as the other subjects and give responsibility for further developing the subject into one or more of the governmental spheres. Whether the focal point function of Christian knowledge with religious and life-oriented orientation is, as already mentioned, not taken for granted. Here is the department that decides, but decisions will not be taken until the Norwegian Network Council has recommended. My intention is that Christian knowledge with religious and life-oriented orientation should be treated in the same way as the other subjects in the allocation of node function.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e889	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but the Council of State underestimates the signal effect of these decisions on vis-à-vis minorities and the legitimacy of the subject. The majority experience overrun the minority. I don't think it's a lucky situation either that two research institutes related to church colleges, the Diakon home and the Academy of Teachers, are going to be among the three that evaluate the subject. Although the Norwegian Research Council, which is part of the Council of State, has made the decision, everyone should understand that this sends out the wrong signal. Furthermore, it is not fortunate that the Faculty of Education has become a focal point institution for the subject. It also sends out the wrong signal. It is not clear from the public documents that it has been available that the Research Council has taken the initiative to assign the focal point function of the CRL to the Faculty of Association. All the letters that I have seen come from the Ministry of Church, Education and Research, both letters of 2 October 1998, where the KUF asks the private universities that want to provide node function, to send an application, and letters of 28 September 1999, where the KUF via the Norwegian Network Council also invites the Faculty of Association and the University of Bergen to undertake node functions. The issue is, of course, which institution should be responsible for the node functions of the CRL subject in general. It was also confirmed by the ministry. I am not aware of any invitation from the Department of State to apply for such a node function. I would also ask the Council of State to confirm this in a later article. And I would still like to ask the Department to ensure that colleges responsible for the CRL in teacher training are also given the opportunity to do the job they are assigned to, among other things. through the node function, as other higher education institutions have been given the opportunity. The necessary skills must not be deprived of their potential for further development. And the very fact that the colleges and a number of our public universities have breadth and insight here, should suggest that a public schooling profession was also further developed by the public educational institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e904	I underestimate the signal effect of the assignment to the evaluation, says the representative Knudsen. That's not what I'm doing. What I'm actually doing is respecting the Research Council as an independent institution. Both in his main post and in the follow-up now, the representative Knudsen says that there is an agency that is under my responsibility. That's of course completely right. But what was the reason why the Research Council was asked to take this assignment? Well, there was a debate we had about the evaluation of Reform 94, when strong debt came from the research community that the Department of State overrun the research institutions and guided the evaluation of Reform 94. To avoid this, the department took out and added those who organized the research in Norway. If there is something this government council will not do, it is trying out the Research Council. If it hadn't come to any of these institutions, just government officials, I wouldn't have tried it. And of course I don't want to go over it this way either, because it would be totally unimaginable and would give a signal into Research Norway that I'm not sure we see the consequences of. Therefore, I would ask that the underlying insinuation that one could experience be lower in the representative Knudsen's claim that this is under the responsibility of the Council of State, not standing. I named who was in the program board, and there were very independent institutions and people who had representation there. Therefore, it is not the department that has made the decision, and I respect the professional assessments that have been made. Of course, when it comes to the node function, it's not the Research Council that's going into it, it's the Norwegian Network Council that's giving advice relative to it. After the Storting remarks that even the private highlights had to be able to search node functions, a general invitation was sent out. As I said in my main post, the Faculty of Public Affairs applied for three. Just because of the signal effect, the Council of State would not give responsibility to the Faculty of Publicities alone, but asked the Norwegian Network Council to look at it and evaluate it in cooperation with the University of Bergen. That assessment is currently under way, and as long as it is under proceedings, the Council of State will not proceed to the proceedings of the Grand Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e915	During the work on the new ten-year school curriculum in Reform 97, the late working party government was busy getting to a common subject of value that could five all the elephants on the floor of a single school. The background to the proposal is that society is now multicultural and multireligious, and that it is pointless to divide the students into two groups: those who are Christians, and all the others. Especially in the largest cities, the image of life is characterized by diversity. A common subject of knowledge and culture on Christianity and other religions, human ethics, philosophy, technology and human vision – to name some of the themes of the new subject – is bold and forward-looking, but demanding. It is important because it can counteract racism and prejudice by teaching kids with Norwegian backgrounds about Islam and Buddhism. It is also important because having knowledge of Christianity and Norwegian Christian ritual strengthens the functioning of prospective children before school, and later in working life and society. This topic is also difficult because it is emotional for people. The Labour Party has stressed the need for the new subject to establish the same pedagogical principle for the work of all religions and outlook on life, and for all preaching to leave the school. In practice, Quran education and baptism training in their own religion should take place in the endangered communities. This has our problems with the subject in a few schools, especially for individual Muslims. I think it's important that the flexibility in the curriculum be used here. In the curriculum there is room for local adaptations. The old town's schooling, for example. place greater emphasis on Islam in some classes. Differentiating instruction on the small-scule ladder must also be used to ensure identity in your own beliefs or beliefs. It is striking, and not particularly wise, that three Christian institutions, the Norwegian Academy of Teachers, the University of Diakonhememmet and the Faculty of Education, have now been given relatively evaluation responsibility and focal point function for the CRL subject. It is appropriate to create greater resistance in groups where everything is murmuring, thus weakening the chances of the subject being collective and atoning. I can understand that the Council of States does not want to overdo the Research Council. It may nevertheless be equally unfortunate for the matter, and it should perhaps concern the Council of State more than what he expresses here. The question of node function, however, is governed by the Council of State, and even if he met it in someone else, it remains that there are many Christian institutions that must have a great responsibility attached to this subject that is so emotional. I hope the Council of State will go a little further in meeting the problem raised by the interpellant.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e928	I believe that all representatives of the KUF Committee in Stortinget have received and registered reactions to the introduction of the KRL subject. However, taking into account the overall scale of the introduction of a new subject at school, the reactions are limited to some small groups, in particular to some humanetics and to some immigrant groups, especially Muslims in the capital. The point of view of the Progress Party on the CRL subject is clear. We want to take the discussion about the subject when we have tried it over time and got a proper evaluation. Until then, we don't want anyone to have a full exemption from the subject, but of course you should be exempt from practical Christian religious practice if you don't belong to this religion. Norway has a Christian history and national heritage, and Christianity is the religion most central to most of the Nordics. It is therefore a matter of course that everyone, and especially immigrants, learns to know this religion. Immigrants often come from cultures that are very distant from our own, and then one should benefit from knowing our national heritage. It should also be clear that such a knowledge will enhance integration in the short and long term. With regard to the specific issue raised by Mr Grete Knudsen, I have no problem with the choices made in relation to the evaluation responsibility and the choices that can be made in relation to the node function. I guess these institutions have a solid weight that makes them well fit for work. Grete Knudsen talked a lot about problems as a result of a multicultural society. We see the same problems and challenges that she pointed out. In such a situation, it is important that we have arenas that can contribute to understanding, respect and dialogue across the limits of faith and life. But there must be an emphasis on Christianity, which is central to Norway. I have the other impression that the Workers' Party, through this interpellation, is trying to turn this matter into something it is not, namely, a struggle between public and private solutions, and that thus reflecting the general fundamentalist resistance of the Workers' Party seems to have against private solutions in the education sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e943	The interpellation has helped clarify the facts of the case, and I now think it is important that the arguments are kept separate. For the evaluation of the CRL subject, the Norwegian Research Council has been provided. And after publication, the Research Council has picked out the best environments and projects. I have no reason to question the professional assessments of the elections in the Research Council. Those behind the projects are professional researchers, who can objectively clarify the basis for an evaluation debate on the CRL subject. This research could also be verifiable, as all good research is. The most motivating thing is to experience the question of the professionalism of the environments allocated to the projects. It is possible to carry out objective and good professional research even if the researchers have a point of view, as long as there is transparency about it. This suspicion is evidence of unprofessionalism. The Christian People's Party agrees that the Norwegian Research Council has been entrusted with this research mission, and has confidence that the Research Council will handle this in a good way. The second case, the focal point institution of the CRL subject, is not yet settled, as the Council of State has explained. Nor can I see that the department can be criticised for the procedure here. The Christian People's Party agrees that cooperation between the trade unions in Christianity and religious science on this subject should be sought, and that node status should be given to the best environments, regardless of state or private school. Reserving the node status of this subject to the State higher education institutions only on the grounds that it is the subject of the school and should be reserved for those engaged in general teacher education are also too narrow. Such reasoning ignores the fact that the entire university sector also educates primary school teachers. The Norwegian Network Council shall provide its professional assessment of the institutions when granting node status. This gives rise to both a quality assessment and an assessment of the different dimensions of the CRL subject against the professional environment we have. The matter is not yet settled, and it will be wrong to point both to someone and to exclude someone today. Otherwise, it might be tempting to discuss the CRL subject in general, but here I want to await the evaluation. I just find that many teachers, parents and students are satisfied with the innovation this subject has received.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e954	It would have been an advantage for both of the two cases that the interpellant traveled, if they had not merged into one interpellation. It would also clearly have been an advantage for the Storting's debate on the two issues were kept apart. Such interpellant put it forward and justified it, one strongly approached a kind of conspiracy theory, that there is a continuous pattern in the government's way of dealing with things. One plus one is too small to justify such a conspiracy theory. My position is that in one of the two cases the criticism is groundless, completely groundless. As regards the evaluation of the CRL subject, the Council of State has handled it exemplaryly. Just wanting to create an arm's length distance from political leadership until the research communities concerned have been promoted repeatedly from this pulpit, and this has been followed by the Council of State. It would have been a direct observation if the Council of State had gradually overrun the professional assessments and laid the foundations for a political assessment instead. In the case of the other case, the handling of the node function for the KRL subject, however, I believe that there is good reason to criticise the procedure. I read that out of the fact that both the Research Association and all the educational institutions concerned have been greatly irritated by the way the department has progressed, because they have been given the impression that this has not followed the normal principle of call-out by making it clear that all the professionally concerned bodies could equally report their interest and be subject to assessment. It is not satisfactory in retrospect to ask the Norwegian Network Council to link up with one of the public education institutions, namely the University of Bergen, when it is not clear on what basis this has taken place and how other equally professional environments have been assessed in this context. There should be open competition, and there should be a procedure in these cases to ensure that all the professionals concerned feel that they have had the same opportunity to notify their interest and to be assessed. Now the Council of State replied that there was no final decision in the matter, and it may make it possible to re-take the neglected and clear the path of the irritation that has now been created in the professional communities concerned. But I'd like to add that here is the department itself that is responsible, because it is the department that has publicly referred the matter in such a way that everyone has the impression that a final decision has been made, and that it is the department that has been assigned the node function.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e965	As the Council of State said, reform 97 needs to be evaluated, and the subject of Christianity and life should even receive a two-track evaluation. I'm waiting anxiously for it to come, and then we can get an interesting and fruitful discussion. For the Central Party, it is important that we respect that Christian knowledge is also part of the new CRL subject. When it comes to evaluating, I think it is very important that evaluation takes place where the competence exists. As far as I am aware, the Norwegian Academy of Teachers – NLA – is a highly integrated university institution with a high degree of professional competence, I would say very high professional competence – which the Research Council has clearly registered – and which also teaches in far more than Bible interpretation, which I could get the impression that the interpellant thought they were only working with. Tolerance in today’s society extends far into many groups, except when we get lost in words like Christianity and Christian knowledge. I've been very upset about that, and I've reacted to it. Here I feel that many people react to the fact that the Christian name is associated with an institution. Fad Christianity and vision of life are so broad and balanced today that it should give all groups the opportunity to participate, but prejudices are deep, and obviously in many camps. A year ago, I had the joy of teaching, among other things. in Christianity and the view of life in the 8th and 9th classes. I was then really amazed at how little it was left of the Christian knowledge of the subject, but okay, I accepted it with the arguments that it was important to get a wide range of knowledge to embrace all the groups. But unfortunately, we have seen that there are still groups that cannot be present today, and I see that there are problems. That's the part we have to take seriously. As the subject is, I also see that there are many new positive things in it, because it is very well suited to having interdisciplinary education with Christianity and the view of life, history and social knowledge, which I saw when I had all those subjects. We always respond to the new. So did I. But when I had waited for this, I saw that we really got a very good job. I hope that the evaluation will not reduce this, but that there will also be a strengthening, and perhaps also that the evaluation can provide a greater understanding of the subject in those groups that still have problems with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e978	The KRL subject got off to a bad start. The trade that was supposed to be a meeting place for different religions and views of life and a subject where dialogue was to be created has become a place where there has been a struggle and where there has been a struggle. Obviously, it's very unfortunate. What happened afterwards was that we made a new mistake, namely that we did not go in to give a full exemption. Had we done this when we had the opportunity – and the Storting has had more opportunities to change the regulations, so it would have been possible to get full exemption, we have submitted proposals several times – I think we would have avoided some of the conflicts associated with the subject, and it would have been easier to develop a subject that we could agree on. So we've made two mistakes. It was the content of the subject itself, and when we made that mistake, we were unable to establish a full exemption system. But then over to what's today's theme, who's going to do the evaluation. I agree with Inge Wohnning that there is no reason to criticize the Council of State for what has been done. Had he done the opposite, he would have opposed the Research Council's proposal, there would have been strong reason to correct political criticism. Because I think it would be premature if a government council tried out the professional advice that came from a research institution. What we can regret is that there were so few people who signed up to do this work. There were so few institutions that signed up, so one had no more to choose from. I believe that whenever those evaluation reports come, there will be doubts about what they say, precisely because there are specific environments that have done so. But we have to live with that. Our task will be to defend the research environments and their integrity, and to say that they are unhindered in their evaluations. When it comes to the node function, I think there's more reason to be critical of what's done. It seems a little artificial, I think, that the Faculty of Publicities has been given responsibility for parts of the subject. It almost seems like a little grip. As there are also strong views from different environments on this, I think it was unfortunate that the Faculty of Public Affairs got this node function. I wish this had been added to state colleges, which have a much greater responsibility for the education of teachers. So there probably the council should have waited, seen this in a larger context and not done this grip, as I feel is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e992	In my opinion, the questions asked by the Interpellant are well answered by the Council of State, and I have no comments on the decisions taken and those not yet made regarding the professional or psychological assumptions of various institutions to evaluate or to be a focal point for the CRL subject. I am confident that both the Norwegian Network Council, the Research Council and the Department will use technical criteria when selecting institutions that will evaluate the subject or have a focal point function. On the other hand, I am amazed that representatives from the Workers' Party almost asked the Council of State to review the Research Council, when we have freshened up the debate following the handling of evaluations by former Labour Party Councils. But the interpellant is right that the subject is disputed and met with scepticism. This is precisely why it is important that evaluations are credible by carefully addressing all issues raised and, more importantly, ensuring that all groups are heard. In an interview on the CRL subject about exactly two years ago, the Left stressed in particular that the exercise of the right to freedom of movement and the follow-up to human rights conventions had to be the most important factor in evaluating the subject. I note that this is the focus of the Research Council's call for the evaluation project, and therefore expect these aspects to be the main points of the institutions carrying out the evaluation. The most important part of the evaluations is the acquisition of knowledge to underpin the development of religious education at school. I therefore take it as being aware that if the evaluations reveal unfortunate aspects of the subject – whether it is the professional content or questions relating to freedom of belief – it has consequences for the further development of the religion. The left supports the intentions of the CRL subject, which is to bring all students together in a common subject on religion to gain mutual understanding of each other's life views and lifestyles. At the same time, we believe it is essential that the individual's right to a teaching consistent with his own convictions be respected. Life vision is something that plunges deep into all of us. Just these two objectives are difficult to reconcile in practice. Therefore, the Left initially wanted to have a liberal right of exemption for the subject. The partial exemption granted has proved particularly difficult to practice among the smallest children. I would therefore encourage the Council of State to consider introducing full exemption rights, at least in small schools, when adjusting the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e1007	We have now debated two of the questions raised by the interpellation. But it's actually also dealing with a third thing, which is perhaps more important than anything else, and that's the development of the CRL in the future. We haven't discussed that here at all, and it surprises me a lot. For those who evaluate, state or private colleges, it may be interesting, but as long as the knowledge to make an evaluation is in place, it is important, not if the school is owned and run by state or owned and driven by private. It's completely uninteresting in my mind. A node function within this is also a very interesting matter, but it's about the development of the subject. What is the direction in which the subject should go? Would this affect our cultural historical image over time? Let's think about 50 years in time, and then we'll look back at the year 2000 and the CRL subject: yeah, that's that time. Then it had a Christian foundation, it was based on a long history of the Norwegian people as a Christian people. What do we have today? Well, we might have some kind of multicultural incubator. Is that what we want? Or do we want a anchoring point that we know from before, which is built on the values that we all, I think no matter the political point, confesses to us in some way, whether we go to church often or very rarely? What we then come up with with developments that I think are very important here is: who is going to direct the development of this subject? I feel that the representative Knudsen is involved in just these things. And she, on behalf of the Workers' Party, clearly wants to have a strong, governing hand on this development, just as I am absolutely sure that the Christian People's Party at the Council of State wants to link Christian development, the development of the subject, to its Christian ideology, which has the foundation that we all know. What I'm left with is the following: The Labour Party has dealt with many things in the two and a half years I've been here, so split over intentions. Do they, in order to conceal a management of a development, try to do so in this important matter as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e1020	The CRL profession creates a common space where students with different life views and different religious traditions can meet each other and get to know each other's faith and ethics. The trade contains both religion and ethics. From some church teams it has been made that the subject does not involve so much new compared to what was. And it's alarming. This is not a subject that is a slight variant of the old Christian subject. And once again, I don't think there's been any good situation in which three institutions linked to church colleges and universities should be those involved in the CRL field, which is such a sensitive area, not least vis-à-vis both the Human-Ethical Association and other minorities. Nor is it lucky that the Faculty of Education has become a focal point institution for the subject. It sends out a wrong signal, right in a period where we're now going to evaluate, and where we could get on in the subject itself. I show again that letters went from the department, there was no letter from the Research Council. There was a letter from the Department of Private Higher Education to apply for node function. There was also a letter from the Department via the Norwegian Networking Council inviting the Faculty of Public Affairs and the University of Bergen to undertake a node function for the KRL. The Council of State did not respond to the request from the Ministry of State to apply for such a node function. And the reactions are, as we know, very many. I take note that the government parties believe that the procedure here has been completely in order, and that neither the government, nor the government parties, nor the government, place any emphasis on adverse signal effects. In my opinion, it does not promise good for the further management of this particular subject by the department and the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e1029	Letters went from the ministry to all private colleges to search node functions within the areas they thought they were strong. And it did so in the light of previous major debates, not specifically for the KRL subject, but for all subjects. Based on that, one of the subjects that the Faculty of Education applied for was the new KRL subject. Then the department saw that it would be unlucky with only the Faculty of Publicities, just based on the signal effect that the representative Grete Knudsen takes up here. So send the Department of Law to the Norwegian Network Council, with the request that one try to get two institutions to cooperate both on the basis of religious science and Christianity. So one could say that at different times there was a letter about node in general, that the former workers' party government had not invited the private institutions, one might later regret it. And I've said in my post today that I'm concerned that even state-owned high-sphericals will be able to search in this area and in all other areas again, if we continue with the system of node functions as it is. But it's also going to be evaluated if there's been a useful way to do things. So I'm absolutely minded that they're also going to come in. So it was said that ecclesiastical instances say there's nothing new. Now you can't answer them that easily, because they're not here. But what I've seen is not exactly that, but it's that in principle there's no big difference in that this is going to be a schooling, that it's not Church baptismal training. It was in 1969 that the Christian subject was lifted as the school's baptismal training, but it was in a way still perceived this way, until we got the new subject. After we've had this round here, I need to say that I'm busy with the department's administration in relation to the minorities, in relation to hardness. The small tendencies that have been associated with civil disobedience, etc., have been treated very softly, just not to get the big conflicts. Then I kind of thought it important in the debate here in Stortinget that a person talk the truth about what has happened, and that one actually mentions it the way it is. I think it has tended to have been done, not just by the interpellant. But I'm busy in a new debate to discuss what's needed for the subject, and that across both the party-political dividers and the truss dividers, we can develop a necessary meeting place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e1042	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e1053	Then we're ready for voting. In Case No: 1, 3 and 4 is not a voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-08.ana.ud1223e1080	There is no record.
