ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e46	There is a very broad political majority behind the position to be taken by Odelstinget today. The entire Committee, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, has joined the Government's proposal to make certain adjustments to the Home and Home Protection Act. I assume that the minority will explain its views later in the debate. The core of the proposals to which the majority of the Committee has agreed is that the amendments constitute an absolute ban on the compulsory recruitment of children under the age of 18 to all forms of service in the Defence during peacetime, during preparedness and during wartime. Furthermore, the Committee has endorsed the proposal for a ban on voluntary recruitment for training and participation in conflict-related activities, i.e. activities related to the conduct of military battles. With the changes that Odelstinget and Laginget have been invited to make in this setting, Norway will send an important signal that Norway supports international efforts to raise the age limit for recruitment to the armed forces. Such a decision could lead Norway in the run-up to the forthcoming rules of international law on age limits for the recruitment of children to armed forces and for children’s participation in conflict. Nothing has upset us more than the TV images from Liberia, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, etc. by children well below the teen age who participate as soldiers in regular combat operations. According to a 1998 report by Amnesty International, there are today at least 300 000 children participating as active soldiers around the world. This is a very serious problem that requires more than that we in calm and peaceful Norway change some paragraphs of our laws. That's why it's a long leap from 8-year-olds with handguns in Rwanda to our peaceful part of the world. I am therefore pleased that within the framework of the logical changes we are now invited to do in our legislation, however, the changes in the laws do not fully block that people who want to do so can serve in the Defence, or otherwise have a formalised link with the Defence, until they reach the age of 18. From this point of view, the proposition explicitly discusses specific aspects of HV youth. I am personally satisfied that the Government in the proposition does not propose to change the age limit for admission to HV youth. The current scheme in which aspirants receive training on fine calibre weapons, calibre 22, or salongammunition, if one will call it that, and older HV young people receive training on modified AG-3 – i.e. it can only be fired with a single shot, not an automatic shot – can be maintained. In this context, I refer to the opinion of the Landsrådet för Heimevertet, which is reproduced in the proposition, where it is recorded that the activities carried out by HV-Youth do not conflict with the law following the proposed changes to the Home Protection Act and the Protection Obligations Act. This implies that it should not be dispute-related. It shall not be possible to obtain the receipt of weapons and ammunition. As has been said, the legislative proposal does not fully prohibit young people from having formalised contact with the Defence Service, but the majority aim to exclude any possibility of persons under the age of 18 being trained or able to engage in combat-related activities. With this in mind, the majority will ensure that in the event of armed conflict, children will not be subjected to combative action as a result of having served or had training in the Defence. The Norwegian defence depends on the trust of the Norwegian people. I believe that that trust is based on the fact that there is consistency between the values of the people and the defense's performance of its tasks. In this way, this law is not only a contribution to ensuring a ban on children under the age of 18 being involved in conflict-related activities, but also a contribution to increasing the trust of the Norwegian people in defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e69	Just a very short post to indicate that there is a party that goes against the proposed legislative amendments. Following the assessment of the Progress Party, the Ministry’s proposal for action against child soldiers is unnecessary, as Norway already has a law that is stricter than the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. It has never been relevant for Norway to use children in military struggles of the type taking place in Rwanda — or to mention the Palestinian territories at present. Such examples become totally irrelevant to the Norwegian debate. On the other hand, the proposal will be able to reduce the activity of Home Protection Youth, because there will always be difficult border crossings in relation to participation in training that is conflict-relevant, for example, ski shooting. After all, the Youth of Home Security operates a business that is both healthy and sensible. The Youth of Home Security offers young people a healthy leisure activity, thereby preventing criminal development among young people, and which is important for the future recruitment of a command to the Defence. I must say, without going up a debate in this area, that I am somewhat surprised that the Right does not listen to the important arguments put forward against the amendment of the Norwegian Reserve Officers' Association. For the sake of order, I would ask the President to inform us of the vote of the Progress Party when we come to voting, so that it would not be necessary to go to the pulpit again with a explanation of vote which would delay voting. The Progress Party will, of course, also vote against the proposal of the Socialist Left, which has been distributed in the seats of the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e82	The President will inform us about the Progress Party's vote when we come to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e85	During the last war, many Norwegian youths traveled to Sweden or went directly to the United Kingdom, and took part in the war. Often they were well under 18 years of age. It was how mature they were, it depended on, not the age. I can cite as an example one of the leading generals we've had in the post-war period, he went out as a 15-year-old and went straight into opposing forces in the United Kingdom. No one has ever responded to this. The legislative proposal we are handling today, therefore, does not spring from Norwegian practice, but from practices entirely different. I'm basically very skeptical to introduce laws here in the country that don't spring out of our own reality, but that are rooted in that we're going to be a good example for other parts of the world. I think the result is very often that we impose unnecessary constraints on ourselves, and that the effect out there is zero. We all know how kids are abused, in a terrible way, in much of Africa and elsewhere, and I have to say that once people are able to use kids that way, I think they're completely unable to be affected by decisions in the Norwegian economy. When I and Right have been in doubt to support this bill, it is because our primary goal is to get a multiple to mark a interpretation of the law in this case that makes it possible for the Home Protection Youth to go on as before. It's very important for some, as the case-speaker was about, and they're doing a very important job, a work that often – I think – makes young people get into the woods and the fields and use their energy there, instead of becoming criminals in towns and cities. This is very important, and it's important that it can continue. There is nothing in today’s activity that gives rise to concern, and therefore it is important that the majority of the Storting today makes it quite clear that this activity can continue mainly as before. On this basis we increase the majority, and of course we oppose the proposal from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e96	One could interpret the representative Godal as if SV was against people being out in the woods and fields. On the contrary, SV is not against it, but that's the activity it's about, we'd like to see some question marks, especially if the participant is under 18 years of age. There is no doubt that one, even if one has a different vision when it comes to using weapons, has a very clear view of getting young people to use forests and land. It will also appear in the budget, contrary to what is often seen in the Right when it comes to that problem. As far as possible, SV could be pleased with the case-speaker in this case, based on what was said by the spokesperson. But it's a fact that it's in the setting, on page 7, that one should drive at something like before: ‘The majority would stress that changes to the laws should not prevent the activities of young HVs from being largely carried on according to today’s pattern.’ It is also very clear, as the case-speaker also pointed out, that aspirants can operate with exercises and shooting with lighter weapons and with modified AG-3. So, as we're told from the plural, it says that one can drive like before, it's specified in the plural's comment in the setting. SV is not interested in stigmatizing HV youth – there is a known technique from some parties here that says that if a person makes a mistake, the whole group applies, we have seen several times in the immigrant debate. That's not what we're looking for from SV's page, but we want to remind ourselves that there are actually some episodes where HV-Youth has been involved. In 1996, the representative Rolf Ketil Bjørn raised the issue of an episode in Kvinesdal, where HV youth was involved. We think of all the Hadelands episode, there was also HV youth involved. We also think of the very tragic case that is now under investigation in the Kristiansands area, where it is also pointed out that the one was in HV youth. This gives the basis for just asking questions about whether things should continue as before, as stated in the comments from the majority. It may be justified, on the basis of such episodes, to refer to a proposal – as SV has submitted – that one wishes to raise the age limit to 18 years. It's actually like you're not supposed to be allowed to buy wine, and you're not allowed to buy smoke until you're 18 years old, but you're allowed to use weapons. It seemed that SV and I for my part are alarming. That doesn't mean, and let me make it clear that SV is against Homeland Protection. On the contrary, the Home Security function is one of the areas SV wants to strengthen, and we in each budget strengthen the activity by adding up. I think it is important that in these questions we also see this a little in relation to Article 38 of the Children's Convention. 2 and 3 and an additional protocol, which just points to this with age and military service and recruitment as an important field. Many countries have made a unilateral statement, which the case-speaker had in mind, that a child should not be used in war, and then it would be natural for us in SV to follow this up in a statement in relation to the recruitment of children under 18 years of age for warlike activity. And Norway also has negotiations, among others. in the ILO for a total ban on the recruitment of children to military service. I bring this up with SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e114	Hallgeir H. Langeland has drawn up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e117	In my opinion, the changes to the Home Office Act and the Protection Act that Odelstinget is now dealing with are quite outrageous. The aim of the legislative changes is to raise the formal age limit for military service to 18 years. In reality, this means more to legislate what is already established in Norway. There is therefore a legal ban on the compulsory recruitment of children under 18 years of age to the Defence, both in war and in readiness and in peace. Furthermore, the amendment will prevent persons under the age of 18 from being trained in combat-related activities in peace, crisis or war. Persons under 18 years of age will not be exposed to direct conflict in the event of an armed conflict. No person under the age of 18 will be counted as part of the country's armed forces after the amendment. A minority of the Committee, the members of the Progress Party, opposes the amendment and justifies this, inter alia: that HV youth could be prevented from continuing their activities. It is in my opinion an unwarranted fear. I think maybe the minority in this case can do the matter a bear service, as something I consider to be a discord, has split the committee in the vote. I refer to the fact that we, as the majority of the committee, have emphasised in the vote that the legislative changes should not prevent the activities of HV youth from being largely carried on according to today's pattern. I assume that the members of the Progress Party also want the same thing. Thus, the entire Defence Committee assumes that the activities of the HV youth should be able to continue in general as before. When this is the actual situation, I think the fear of another interpretation of the law change, for example. in line with what the Children’s Ombudsman should have done, is unfounded. The fact that sport as a youth can operate in organised forms under the direction of the sports organisations should be considered illegal within the framework of youth education and training, I consider an unmistakable idea. Such a meaningless interpretation of the changes in the laws in question, I don't think anyone will be able to try. Then Hallgeir H. Langeland has just made a proposal on behalf of SV, which is not represented in the Defence Committee, to ask the Government to present a legislative amendment aimed at raising the age limit for voluntary recruitment to military service to 18 years. I see no need for such a change in the law, as it is adopted today. I am referring to the fact that volunteers who have not reached the age of 18 cannot be trained or engaged in combat-related activities, and should immediately be released from service if the kingdom is at war or war, or if the defence or parts of it are put on the foot of war. Thus, this is reflected in the changes that are currently being adopted in Section 6, first paragraph, a new second sentence, and in Section 4, new fifth paragraph of the Protection Act. I think Langeland was guilty of a somewhat peculiar connection between Homeland and crime. He referred to some episodes, the Women's Valley case, the Hadeland killings and now the new case in Baneheia, Kristiansand. It has not been shown that these criminal acts are directly related to the fact that the offenders have had a connection with the Home Security. After all, I've lived a whole lifetime in the fight against crime and I've had to deal with a lot of people who have committed crime, and I've never been able to record that there's any direct connection between the youth's relationship with the HV and the crime itself. I therefore think it was rather strange to try to insinuate that HV youth is being taught about crime. I see, as I said, no need for such a change in law as SV asks, and the centre party will therefore vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e138	In short, the representative Simonsen of the Progress Party referred to the reserve officers as an argument for his position. I think it'll be very difficult if you refer to all the statements. But if one reads the proposition, one will see that almost all organizations support the Government in this bill change. I'm just going to take a little pinch of those who have supported what we're now invited to adopt. It is Amnesty International, the Norwegian Law Association, the Refugee Council, the Ministry of Justice, the Landsorganisationen in Norway, the Landsrådet för Heimevernet, the Landsrådet för Heimevernet, the Landsrådet för Norges Kinder- und Jugendsorganisationen, the Equal Opportunities Ombudsman, the Norwegian Armed Forces Association, the Norwegian Officers' Association, the Red Cross in Norway, the Ombudsman for Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, etc. There are two organisations that have – let's say – a special position, that's the Reserve Officers' Federation on the one hand and it's maybe the Children's Ombudsman on the other. But the entire mass supports this which we are now invited to in the Stortinget today. In the case of Langeland's posts, I will refrain from commenting on it. I think Restad commented on it in a very nice way, and with greater weight and authority than I could have done, so I'm going to drop it. I just want to remind you that when it comes to the case in Kristiansand, the Home Office has got a lot of flowers both from the media and from residents of Kristiansand for the job they have done in that work there. Now maybe I'm not objective, because I've been in Homeland for 30 years, but I feel like homeland youth gets a fantastic training in sanitation, in connection, in field sports, in activities that have to do with forest and land, that Restad was inside, under skillful, adult guidance. One then has to ask the question: What is the alternative to this – which also the representative Godal had in mind – is to stand by slot machines, to operate with pit bullying or what is it today? There are such things you have to set up as alternatives, and I also think SV should think about that. So I believe that this – as very often in political life – is a cross between two interests. I'm very happy that the Right joined the majority here, and it should guarantee that it's the sense that is at the heart of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e151	I'm not going to go out with a big representative and a Lenny Restad, with his weight, on which Halvorsen was in. What was done by SV was not an attempt to stigmatize HV youth. It was clarified from the pulpit. What I said in my post was that some parties used stigmatisation as a response to groups outside the community, among other things. has a set of it vis-à-vis immigrant groups. If an immigrant has done something wrong, it applies to all immigrants, we've seen examples of that. What was the point was that there are things where you can connect these things without, of course, proving any context. But some of these young people in the three examples that I mentioned actually have connection to HV, and then it's certainly not crazy to label this as a possible context. Then to Halvorsen. The options - what should they do? Should they shoot pit bulls, or what should they find? Yes, there's a problem with the Workers' Party. What happens in the workers' party government when it comes to voluntary organisations, when it comes to environmental movement, when it comes to stimulating young people to good activities, to leisure club activities, to culture, etc.? Is the Labour Party in the front when it comes to driving these organisations? The representative, Halvorsen, knows they're not. They actually fail in these important fields when it comes to stimulating positive activity. What about, for example, to make more money into the Tourist Association, the Association of Nature and Youth, organisations that can get people into the woods and land – or to demonstrate against a failed collective effort? It is not the Worker's Party on it. Must be a positive activity, too? So I think it's necessary that we actually raise the age limit for voluntary recruitment to military service to 18 years, which is the starting point of the argument that's led here. This also means that we support the setting, but we want a new thing on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e162	I am pleased with the clarifications made by the representative Restad in his posts and the interpretations he has made of the law, and I hope, of course, that the department will listen to it. But it is then that the majority of the committee in the vote has clarified that the Youth for Home Affairs can mainly continue the activities as before. Thus, in the expression ‘mainly’, there is a recognition that some of the activities of the Youth for Home Affairs will be restricted today, and that is also the reason for the vote of the Advancement Party. So to the representative of Langeland who first says that he doesn't want to stigmatise the Youth of Home Security, and then to draw out three examples of members of this organization who have committed some criminal act in the last 10-15 years. And then he says that then it must be allowed to suggest that there might be a possible relationship. Yes, I also think it should be possible to find three members of the Socialist Left Party who have committed some criminal act in the last 10-15 years, but I would not for that reason suggest that there must be some possible connection. It is that people who commit crime are members of many organisations, and they commit crime not because they are members of these organizations, but because of completely different motives. So it's not true when the representative Langeland claims that he doesn't want to stigmatise the Youth of Home Security – that's exactly what he's done through his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e170	I forgot in my previous post to inform them that the Workers' Party wants to vote against the SV's proposal, and asked that we be included in the summary of those who vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e175	The representative, Hallgeir H. Langeland, has spoken twice before the debate and is now given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e178	This with stigmatisation is not really the main thrust of SV, but there is a set of examples of the fact that the Progress Party, not least represented by the representative Simonsen, has developed it into a sport in the Norwegian media, which leads to collective action for whole groups by means of countless queries about immigrants. What SV does in this case is to make sure that in some very serious cases – it may be that Simonsen has a different view of the nature of the cases – has an actual youth who has a history from HV. And when a driver is trained, etc. in the use of weapons, it is clear that it is not possible to avoid mentioning that it may be a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e183	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 93]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e197	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 93]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e211	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Steinar Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of changing the lines after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e220	The size is invited to decide on some changes to the Lottery Act. In the management of proposals for change in lotterilova made in Ot.prp. No 84 for 1998-99, the Government was asked to come back with the legal basis of the Lottery Authority and Lottery Board, the sanctions rules, the accounting and audit obligations and the requirement to distinguish between their objectives and other activities. Although Stortinget sent the bill back to Bondevik, Stortinget supports the proposal to create a lottery monitor and a lottery host. The Government of Bondevik was given the power to decide on the location of the Lottery Authority, which was located in the Fjords in Sogn and Fjordane. In the light of the Stortinget's decision, the Ministry of Justice will issue a proposal on the rules of law on the financing of the Lotteries Authority and Lotteries and on the control of the players in the lottery market. The government of Stoltenberg has come back to the Stortinget with amendments to the lottery, which are essentially in line with the proposal that the plurality joined here in the Stortinget. The Judicial Committee has, as an overarching goal with lotterilova, been to ensure that voluntary organisations have their income base and to obtain a law that both controls the activities and gives a clear signal as to how the authorities want the activities to take place in society. The Committee is concerned that the Lottery Authority and the Code should not be organised or designed in such a way that financial resources are transferred from important humanitarian purposes to government fees and a comprehensive bureaucracy. At the same time, the Committee is concerned that all activities can be controlled, so that those who buy lott or play on the machine are sure that they give money for good purposes at the same time. Those who have control and administrative responsibility for these installations have reliable means to do so. The members of the Committee have agreed that we must have a level playing field between private players and state games in terms of terms and access to the market. From 1 January 2001 onwards, the Ministry of Culture will be responsible for the overall gaming market. As I have already said, the Stortinget has asked for a review of the distribution between the voluntary humanitarian organizations and the state games, and I expect the Government to provide a notice of this to the Stortinget within a reasonable time. Today, we have the maximum bet limit, the maximum bet limit and the age limit for the private games, and as long as we don't have the corresponding state games, it's a skew distribution of the market. In particular, national humanitarian organisations undertake large voluntary tasks, both nationally and internationally. At the local level, sports teams and other means are provided to carry out voluntary and preventive activities, including: for children and young people, which brings about voluntary organisations and solves many societal tasks. In the technological developments that society is currently experiencing, there are also changes in the field of lottery. The Internet is a media that opens up new games and opportunities. Norwegian Typing AS and Rikstototo have access to test games on the Internet, and the Committee does not consider it natural that only government games should have this possibility in the future. On the basis of the principle of equality, it should be assessed how that market will exist in the future. Today, many of the lottery organizations use what we call entrepreneurs to control the machines. The Committee emphasises that there is a lot of talk about a distinction between a lottery organisation and an enterprise as an entrepreneur or a local owner, in order to avoid that some local owners may also operate entrepreneurship and thus monopolise the objectives of automating around. But it has not been the committee's intention to take from the humanitarian organizations the possibility of self-managing the outsourcing and control of their machines, such as computers. The Red Cross of Norway does today. The humanitarian organisations that are currently operating themselves must also be able to do so in the future. While there has been considerable concern about the possibility of type-approval of automatic gains, the Committee is pleased that the Ministry of Justice has come to an understanding of this area with its users. However, users are equally concerned that the fees and charges for the operation of lottery inspections and lottery tickets should not be too high. The Committee stresses that the financing of supervision and scrutiny shall be based on the assumption that fees and charges may reflect the real cost to the public of the management and control of the lottery area. Funding must take place primarily at the operational level in order to protect the income component of the organisations’ objectives. Once the Committee has agreed that the fees for the recognition of contractors and organisations may be increased, it should provide for a downward adjustment of the automatic fee. It is therefore important to clarify this fairly quickly, so that organisations can predict the costs they are incurred. Entrepreneurs should be both accountable and subject to audit is important. They are responsible for trusted funds. Similarly, it is important that control be exercised over the overarching political goals that Stortinget has added to lottery control and lottery rosters. For all the political parties, it is important that the Storting should always be involved in designing the legislation and that control and other exercises are carried out in line with the overarching objectives set. For the Labour Party’s part – and I don’t ignore the fact that I have all the parties here – I am happy that we have established goals, laws, supervision and control of lottery and lottery activities in a safe way. I also understand that private humanitarian organisations fully share this view when they otherwise work under similar conditions in this market. Therefore, I am pleased that we have now completed the first stage in the comments of the Justice Committee at the Innst. O. No 33 for 1999-2000. The next one, on the distribution of the market between the state games, we look forward to coming back to Stortinget within reasonable time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e260	This is a law that covers quite a lot and many, especially those who operate under the Lottery Act and those who take advantage of the game and the pleasures of the game – and most of the Nordics have a relationship with it to a greater or lesser extent. There are some amendments that have come back to the committee and are being discussed here in Odelstinget now. However, there are still a lot of things in the Lottery Act that should be clarified, but it will come in the long run. The most important thing is that this law becomes as clear as possible, so that there are no doubts about the lottery law and its exercise, as it has actually been before. I think most in the committee have had that as a template all the way. I would like to point out that the Lottery Authority, which is now being introduced, could have a major influence on the income opportunities of private organisations, as well as the distribution between state and independent gambling. It will therefore be important and appropriate for supervision, which will act as a competitive entity vis-à-vis the market, to exercise supervision based on democratic principles in all respects. The Progress Party believes that when rules on the authorisation of contractors are now in place, the legislation on the authorisation of local authorities must not become too extensive and unbridled. There are a number of questions about this as well, which may not be completely clear yet. With regard to the costs of operating the Lottery Authority, we in the Progress Party think they are too high. The various types of fees proposed would seem unreasonable, especially for humanitarian and social purposes, i.e. private games. The proposed fee structure is unnecessarily complex and the total fee revenue should be no more than the actual costs incurred in the supervision process. Fees must not be such as to break the economic backbone of socially useful teams and organisations, which make a very good effort. We support the organisations' proposal to exempt clean entertainment machines from the bill, so that the law concentrates on gambling, including state games, when the coordination between state and private games is now to be placed under the Ministry of Culture. It'll be completed soon. We in the Progress Party are alone in saying that there should be a government for the Lottery Authority – at least per. today. We believe that this board must have a broad membership with representatives from different environments and organisations in the gaming market, and be independent of the lottery management. That is why we propose a change in Section 4 in line with exactly what I have now talked about. No requirement should be imposed for an establishment to be organised in a separate company in order to be authorised as an entrepreneur. It is appropriate to consider whether the authorisation system applies to the entire board of directors of an entrepreneurial undertaking and not only to the board of directors or the Executive Director. Just like that, we're alone. We don't want to impose age limits on games, whether for state games or private games. However, if the age limit is introduced, it must have the consequence that it must apply to all types of games, so that there is no discrimination in the gambling market. We will claim that it will be very difficult to carry out age control, and it would not seem right to impose these kinds of tasks on the police to which this is actually added. So after this we will vote against Section 8(a) of the draft law, but support subsidiary Right's proposal, no. 3, if the age limit is introduced. And then we're going to have the same line as the Right, and that's what we've wanted all the way, equal treatment of state and private games. I've noticed that the majority has referred to gambling madness, and I have a strong feeling that there are actually speculations about this that underlie the introduction of an age limit for games. The country’s newspapers ran several reports on gambling madness among supposedly 16 000 children and young people, and even more adults. However, very few are asking critical questions about the conclusions drawn in the newspaper columns. When the smoke from the lookups is driven away, it's time to make some brief reflections. There are no studies on gambling dependence based on Norwegian conditions carried out scientifically. Serious foreign surveys are also economical, and in this vacuum it is easy for the press and others to influence opinion to draw hasty conclusions. For example, neither the press nor the trade unions operate with any uniform definition of ‘game addiction’. Without a clear definition and a proper study of the scale of the problem in Norway, it is not easy to jump to the conclusion that age limits and gambling halls solve all the problems. The negative aspects of slot machine operations can be resolved in completely different ways. So I think it's a bad solution to introduce age limits on such a basis as the majority here does, and that I have a strong feeling is based on their attitudes and positions simply on speculation, because they're so attached to the notion of gambling madness. I would also like to say that we in the Advance Party will highlight that Norsk Tipping AS and Rikstototo have been given access to try out games via the Internet. We want, as I said, a level playing environment for state and private gambling, and it should therefore be possible for more players to gain experience of gambling and lottery via the Internet, that it is not only reserved for Norwegian Typing and Rikstototo. We've also discussed the introduction of BingoLotto. We have been ripe for the long time when BingoLotto should be introduced. We are of the opinion that this issue is now more than sufficiently mature for implementation also in Norway. This type of game should be allowed when the aim is to strengthen the local voluntary cultural work. Another question that arises around this, which in particular the private gaming organisations are very concerned about, is the amount of winnings. The law today clearly states that you are not allowed to pay cash in excess of NOK 500000. This ceiling will be removed by the Progress Party, so that organisations can be more in line with the State games also in terms of the amount of the total amount of the premium payable. This applies to games that are primarily played on the organisations’ national lotteries. So we're going to propose that this limit stop, and instead we're going to leave it to the lottery organization to decide for itself the size of the main winnings and the form of payment for all kinds of winnings. I think it's important to establish that. In the end, I just want to address the additional costs of funding the supervision. We believe from the Progress Party that it would have been possible to transfer job homes from the departments that are currently working on issues related to private lotteries and state games, so that costs around the creation of a lottery supervision will be minimised in total. In this I address the proposal to which reference has been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e294	The representative Jørn L. Stang has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e297	The rapporteur has gone through the various aspects of what is in the position today, and which the Christian People's Party has given its support. It's just on two points that we stand out from the Labour Party in this setting, one of which we're all on our own, the other we're with the Right, the Advance Party and the Center Party on. The last point is that the Ministry of Culture will in the future be both the organiser and the coordinator of the gaming market. We believe that this is an unfortunate combination, and therefore we ask that the function of the general meeting itself and the role of ownership in the future should be exercised by another department. The dilemma we face in terms of private and public games has not become less complicated since we debated the issue in December last year. I then allowed myself to describe it as an ethical conflict, and I still experience it this way, because on the one hand it is about obtaining income for good and affordable purposes, and on the other hand we have all those who get life partly destroyed due to gambling addiction. The representative, Jørn L. Stang, of the Progress Party, has just stated from this interlocutor that he does not know that there are any serious or scientific studies to confirm this. We may well need to have a proper investigation in this area and the ministry should consider whether or not someone should be involved in this. That is what I said in the debate in December. But if there are no major scientific studies so far, there is sufficient experience in this area, knowledge from different treatment institutions both here in the country and abroad that has, if not 100 pst. an overview of the problem, so that at least a high level of understanding and understanding of the extent of the problem. Based on this, I see no reason for us to minimize or try to make this a non-existent problem. It's a problem. And I am surprised that the representative Stang of the Progress Party has received some of the same letters and enquiries that we have received in the Christian People's Party neither in the period preceding the debate in December nor in the period from December until now. In that case, it should have been shown how a good number of people feel about this problem on the body. The revenue from gambling is essential for many of the heavy players in Freewill Norway to maintain their activity. The same applies to smaller groups that are necessary and commendable in the local environment in addition to the public services. This applies to offers and opportunities for all age groups throughout the country. Alternative games and lotteries give good purposes to the economy that they would not survive without. For relatively limited resources, a large and important work is being carried out. These, in the broad sense, socially useful and positive measures would be missed if they were gone. The music crews, the sports teams, the Red Cross, the youth club 4H and many other humanitarian, social and religious volunteering are part of our daily lives. But even the volunteer costs money, sometimes quite a lot of money. We can probably have some kind of national hard work once a year with TV collection for one or more good purposes, and for the purpose of collection, this is important and dear money that means a lot, but the result is too small to count in relation to the funds needed for the whole of Norway. Lotteries and games are as far as the most appropriate methods as the source of funding are concerned. But there's no reason to jump under the chair that Freedom Norway in that context competes with the public, state games. The gain size, the winning frequency and the marketing of the games struggle about our attention, commitment and not least our money. Most of us probably have a relatively relaxed relationship with the games and the lotteries. Of course, we want to be successful, but usually we tell ourselves after the draw that we supported a good cause, and then we're done with it. However, there are many more people than we like to be made aware of, who suffer from gambling addiction, and that is why the dilemma arises. We in the Christian People's Party have had a lot of enquiries about the lottery law. Very many individuals, teams and associations have pointed out the need to maintain the revenues that various games and lotteries bring in to the layerbox so that they can continue the activities of joy and commitment to community and community. But we have also received strong calls, as I mentioned, from people who themselves are addicted to gambling, and from relatives to such. Many demand the logic of helping someone by making others needy. In the Christian People's Party we see the problem, but we don't have the answer that solves the problem. Theoretically, we can solve the dilemma, but not through practical action. It's e.g. prohibiting games and lotteries in all variants unrealistically, or introducing rules on symbolic winnings and capping amounts per game. person per person week. Nor is it desirable or timely to expect public full funding for Voluntary Norway. We must therefore seek other ways of dealing with the dilemma, not to cover up the problem or to subdue the conscience, but to make the best of the situation for the different interests. In the Christian People's Party, therefore, we believe it is right to introduce the 18th anniversary limit for gaming on vending machines. However, we believe that this should be a level playing field for private and public games and therefore support what the rapporteur has said at the outset in this debate. We have also agreed that it is right to transfer to the Ministry of Culture slot machines and what has so far been under the Ministry of Justice. We also believe that Norsk Rikstototo should be considered with the same department. In connection with the financing of the Lottery Authority and Lottery Board, we have no other comments on what has been said about this matter, but of course, the Christian People's Party does not want to spend more money than is necessary. But at the same time, we want to stress that you have to use what is necessary, so that we don't make too bad a setup. And if it turns out that you've taken something too hard initially, there's no reason you shouldn't be able to adjust it afterwards. In this context, I would like to signal that in the Christian People's Party, and I personally, we could imagine that a system was put in place – I do not propose it here and now – where a certain percentage of the turnover of the games, for example. 1⁄2 pst. or 1 pst., I don't know how much is needed, would be used to set up a fund to just provide the necessary information, research, about the concept of gambling addiction, and to treat the addicts, because I am convinced that in the future we will need quite a lot of money in this area. The last thing I want to address, and as the Christian People's Party stands alone in the vote, is the question of alcohol as a gain. We're going to go against that, and we think that this has a logical context in that we're opposed to facilitating just this that can lead to addiction. And we know that those who are dependent must not get this either – nor through a plausible lottery in a workplace. Because we're going against this, I'm going to ask for a voting method that gives us the opportunity to vote against it later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e329	Actually, this should be a day that there is reason to celebrate, because there has probably not been a single case in the Justice Committee during this period that has brought about as much temperature as the lottery law, in the debate on 16 December last year. And the reason it was a massive uprising from non-governmental organisations across the country because they were concerned about their incomes and worried about the possibility of running the valuable work they were doing. Sometimes it is therefore wise that Stortinget takes a little extra time. The matter we are dealing with today is agreed on at most points, and that is reason to stress. There is also reason to stress that we took the time to wait for the automatic regulation to be completed, even if it is strictly not to be dealt with in Stortinget. That was also true, because it was one of the things the volunteer organizations reacted most strongly to and were most concerned about. And it's nice to note that the department and organizations have reached an agreement on how these rules for the vending machines should be in the regulation. It is also important to say that there has never been any disagreement about the need for control and supervision of the gambling market in Norway. Just because we want all the serious actors well, it's important that we have a supervision that checks that it's the serious actors that's allowed to do it. And the fact that we have now established the supervision, and that it comes into operation, is reason to rejoice. At the same time, it is our job as politicians to be very careful that this supervision is not dimensioned so that we take money away from the Rescue Company and Save Children and into public administration and operation. And it's important that the government fees charged to organisations don't get a penny higher than is strictly necessary. It's important that we take care of how supervision develops, how extensive it becomes, how many people work there, and that this is dimensioned in a reasonable low-cost way. Another issue that is important is that we are now bringing together the total gambling and lottery market at one department level. Because it has been quite unnatural that private actors have gone to the Ministry of Justice and the Committee on Justice, while the State actor has been able to hold on more or less in peace and quiet in the Ministry of Culture and the Committee on Culture. Just because so much good work is done, it is important that there are equivalent framework conditions and that there are as many common rules as possible. I think it is very good that an entire committee shows that there is now the maximum bet and top prize for the private games, but not for the state. I also think it is positive that the same unanimous committee points out that there is now the age limit for private games without us having the corresponding age limit for state games. And even though a majority in the committee does not support the Right's proposal to adopt specifically that there should be a common age limit, I am pleased that the entire committee says that the objective is equivalent framework conditions for the state and voluntary humanitarian and social organisations. I expect the Council of State to comply with these guidelines. This with the new type-approval of vending machines, that is, the design of the vending machines for sound and light and the attractiveness of the player, is of course important. For where the state can advertise through full-page newspaper ads and on TV for its games, it is in a way only by having attractive vending machines that they can advertise their games in private, thus increasing their income opportunities. And I want to reiterate the importance of the ministry and voluntary organizations agreeing on how these machines can be. What happened on 16 December last year was basically that the Justice Committee said it would have parliamentary control of the gambling market. Because it affects so much important voluntary work. It is one of these in the Committee that is linked to this by setting up a Board of Lottery Supervisors or one, but I feel sure that we in Stortinget will have such close parliamentary control over how the Lottery Authority practices its activities and what guidelines are given, that we know – in this House – that we can safeguard the rights and interests of the voluntary organisations. And that should be good enough for most people. If it turns out not to keep up, we can always evaluate other forms of organisation later. The representative, Marthinsen, was concerned with the practical problem that the Ministry of Culture could in the future be both the organiser and supervisor of the gambling market, while the Council of State is the general assembly of the largest actor, Norsk Tipping. Since the majority have pointed to this danger, I expect the government, when it comes back with its own case, to take account of it and provide an organisational distinction, as has been done for a number of other state enterprises. I want to stay at the entertainment machines. This has now become a law on gambling. And then it seems unnatural to have entertaining machines that don't offer money gains, in the same law. There is no law from the Right to take it out, but we say that we believe it to be right. And I expect that the department, when we get a separate case back on the coordination between state and private games, also looks at whether it might be more appropriate to take the entertainment machines out of this law, and possibly have a regulation for them elsewhere, where it seems more natural. A theme that has not been affected in this setting is gambling casino with revenues for humanitarian purposes. It opened the Storting for the last time. We said that this could be tested. We said that whether it's casino games or other games, it shouldn't be the big difference as long as you enforce the age limit rule equally, as long as you have a good control device, and as long as the income goes for humanitarian purposes. I expect that, in a reasonable time, we will also receive feedback on how the applications for casino games from non-governmental organisations are handled in the ministry, and whether or not pilot projects are started, as the Committee's intention was the last time we dealt with these issues. It has been pointed out from several that collecting revenue from games for use for humanitarian purposes is ethically questionable or at least provides a basis for ethical assessments. The ethical conflict should be as great for the state as for the private. I would like to remind you that, while then saying all the revenue that comes from games to the private market goes out again for the purpose, it is for Norsk Tipping's part so that most of the revenue goes straight into the treasury. It is no less ethical to take revenue from the racetrack or from Norwegian Typing right into the state treasury than it is to take revenue from vending machines for good humanitarian purposes. As far as the proposals from the Right are concerned, I would like to take them up. I am pleased that the Progress Party announced subsidiary support for one, the proposal on the common age limit for state and private gambling, but I would also like to stress that I interpret it so that when the other parties say in a note they support non-discrimination, it means that the Ministry will fulfill the intention of the Right's proposal in the follow-up that comes later. As regards the 16-year-old and not 18-year-old proposal, it is related to the fact that this was the primary wish of the organisations themselves. It is related to the fact that the research reports documenting the problem of child gambling said that the risk was primarily for the 11-15 age group. From this point of view, a 16-year age limit should be sufficient. The age limit of 16 could also be a right first step, because we want to have a common age limit for state and private games. There have been arguments from state games that a 16-year age limit related to tipping and Rikstototo is better than an 18-year age limit for these games. But it gives the government the opportunity to come back to the matter that is expected, and I am now content with the sum total to be happy that we have managed to agree on as much as we have done, and that the humanitarian organizations can thus secure their income in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e357	The representative Kristin Krohn Devold has drawn up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e360	With today’s suspension, Stortinget is taking an important step in improving the organisation and regulation of lottery activities in Norway. I am pleased that an overall committee agrees on the main features of the proposal for amendments to the Lottery Act. The establishment of a lottery supervision will provide a more coordinated and equal treatment for the voluntary organisations involved in the lottery activities and will improve the ability to control the benefit of the lottery revenue to the organisations. At the same time, lottery surveillance will require a close follow-up of technological possibilities in the field of lotteries and will be able to make proposals for regulatory changes that are consistent with developments and the needs of the lottery market. I consider this to be important in an area that has experienced significant changes and a significant increase in turnover over the past five to ten years. The creation of the Lottery Authority, Lotteries and a lottery register with a comprehensive overview of the lottery activities will also provide us with several safer knowledge of the lottery activity. Today’s adoption of legislative amendments therefore also represents an important step in the overall review of the framework conditions for private lotteries and state games already requested by the Stortinget during the treatment of Innst. O. No 33 for 1999-2000 last year. When the administrative responsibility for the Lottery Act is transferred from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Culture on 1 January, the Ministry of Culture will assume the primary responsibility for the government's work on such a review. However, I have noted the emphasis of the Committee on Justice on the need for an equivalent framework for State and private games, among others. in relation to the funding of fees and charges for the Lottery Authority and in relation to permits for online gambling. The same applies to the request for a guarantee requirement in relation to the treatment of lottery revenue by independent lottery contractors and an assessment of whether the 18-year limit for slot games on vending machines makes it desirable with age limits also in relation to other games. Of course, the government will come back to these and other issues raised by the Storting in this area as soon as possible and at the latest in connection with the overall review of the framework conditions for state games and private lotteries. I can also add that I have, of course, taken note of the proposal, which, quite rightly, had not been made as a formal proposal, by the representative of Marthinsen on a fund for research. I then show in particular that in the proposition we say that the Lottery Authority must have a role as the initiator of research and the preservation of knowledge of the negative effects of gambling. Then maybe a fund is one way to do it. But that this task must be carried out, we fully agree. I also want to join those who have pointed out the need to have a critical and constructive view of the size of the Lottery Authority. There is no reason to make it bigger than it is needed, but at the same time, we must bear in mind that there is no certainty that there is a complete match between the public or government's desire for the scope of control and the organisations' desire to be controlled. We need to have a right but not too much supervision. The last thing I want to comment specifically on is the question of casino business. What was the Committee's wording in its position, which was discussed at Stortinget on 16 December last year, was that the majority of the Committee ‘will, in this context, ask the Government for an assessment of casino business in connection with the claim for a later case to the Stortinget for the total gaming and automatic market’. The government's attitude in Stortinget's attitude has been that we should come back with an assessment of casino business and have therefore not understood it to the extent that we have the authority to allow casino business as the situation is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e384	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e387	I got a visit from my committee colleague Marthinsen asking if I have not received any letters and enquiries from people suffering from gambling madness. I do, even if it's on a modest scale. I'm aware of the fact that someone is suffering from it. But at the same time, I am aware of the exaggerations that have been presented through the press regarding gambling madness. There are always isolated cases where you find someone who is suffering from something. Thus, I have not said that some people do not suffer from gambling addiction. However, the background for taking decisions must be based on realistic circumstances. That's what I pointed out in the city that's missing. That's what's missing, before you can go to the step of imposing restrictions, as the Christian People's Party here does. But despite the fact that Marthinsen maintains that many suffer from gambling madness, regardless of age, he argues at the same time the importance of gambling to social and humanitarian organisations and its contribution to income. I agree with the Christian People's Party in their reference to the importance of these organizations. But I'm looking for logical, credible relationships, not results based on vision, which are once again based on individual cases. I want to draw the attention of the representative Marthinsen to the fact that even though we are concerned about the negative aspects of games, the vast majority of the North actually enjoy – almost two million of us – being able to play some game, either every week or at some point in their lives. It can vary. However, I assume that the Christian People's Party agrees that one must have more realistic and credible research into this before one can be so blatant in his decisions. Otherwise, I noticed that the Council of State had no comments about setting up a board of directors for the Lottery Authority, and about any significance it might have.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e403	There is a logical relationship between what the Christian People's Party says, and what the Christian People's Party has in mind in this matter. We take into account both sides. But that leads us up to what I would call an ethical problem or a dilemma, because we don't want to close our eyes because there are problems that we know are of a not insignificant extent. There has just been a Nordic seminar on this issue in Oslo with gambling addiction, where there is a good deal of evidence. As I said in my post, it may not be the great scientific durability, so you can say that this is scientifically documented. However, there are now, at least, statements from treatment institutions and businesses, not only in Norway. In parentheses, I myself am a member of the board of directors of a business that has just worked with people with gambling addiction problems, so I have a little personal impression of this, too, based on the conditions we have here in Eastern Europe. But there are also others who have said something about this in the seminar that we had, and that is, as it is shown, a growing problem. I think that with the evolution we see in this field, with ever new ways of approaching people's money book, it can become even more problematic in the future. But we in the Christian People's Party want to take, as mentioned in my post, both parties seriously. It is important that Freedom Norway is given the necessary funds. At the same time, we should not unilaterally say that these are the ones that are concerned with protecting or providing good framework conditions. We also have to look at the other side and take it into account. That's what the Christian People's Party does, as I see it in this case. That the representative-aunt Stang from the Advance Party sees this in another way, I just have to accept. I still believe that there is a logical context in the Christian People's Party's position on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e412	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e418	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-3.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e424	In the course of the debate, Mr H. Langeland, on behalf of the Socialist Left, has put forward proposal No. 1, which is divided into the hall. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose legislative changes in order to raise the age limit for voluntary recruitment to military service to 18 years’.’ This proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e507	The progress party has announced that they will oppose it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e519	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote. The President expects the Progress Party to vote against as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e531	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e693	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e701	The legislative decision will be sent to the Layer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e707	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Jørn L. Stang, on behalf of the Progress Party, proposal No. 2 and 3, by Kristin Krohn Devold on behalf of Right-wing Proposal No. 3, from the Right, sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a common age limit for State and private gambling.’ The proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e727	President, a explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e734	Astrid Marie Nistad has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e737	I would urge the Labour Party to vote against both proposal No. 1 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and proposal No. 2, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e842	To the second paragraph, there is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 24 February 1995 11 on lotteries etc. the following shall be amended:Article 4, second paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: The Ministry shall issue an instruction to the Management Board.’.» The recommendation from the Committee to the first paragraph will be put to the vote first, then alternately between the second paragraph and the proposal from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e967	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 2, from the right to the first paragraph. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 24 February 1995 11 on lotteries etc. the first paragraph of Section 8a is amended as follows: The age limit for gambling on vending machines is 16 years.’ The progress bar has been warned that they are going against this setting. Hence, the proposal from the Right and then the setting will be voted on first. The voting boards showed that 58 representatives voted against the proposal by the Right, and 14 representatives voted in favour of the proposal. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 13.57.19]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e987	I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e994	I have also voted incorrectly. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e1001	Then there will be 12 voices for and 60 voices against the proposal from the Right. Are there any others who have something to confess? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e1026	The Christian People's Party has warned that they are opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e1212	The title of the law and the law will be the subject of a vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e1220	The legislative decision will be sent to the Saving Decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-16-lower.ana.ud1142e1229	There is no record available.
