ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e56	Agent Anneliese Dørum is dead, 61 years old. On 2 October she participated as usual in the formation of Stortinget. On the way home, the disease hit. Then she only got a month to prepare for the irrevocable. Yesterday, many of us were saddening at her stretcher. Anneliese was born in Trondheim in 1939. She took the teaching college in Trondheim, studied further, and was adjunct. In the years from 1967 to 1980, Nordby was a secondary school at Jessheim. During those years she was a teacher, a social teacher, and a school counselor. From 1980 until she was permanently elected to the Stortinget, she worked full-time in and for the Workers' Party's group in Akerhus County. Women's policy was an important part of Annelies's commitment. For ten years she was a central member of the Women's Secretariat of the Workers' Party. The thirty years that went from her for the first time took on a political position and until her death tell of a solid and coherent commitment to the service of politics and social democracy – in Ullensaker municipality, in Akershu County and in national politics. Anneliese Dørum became alternate to Stortinget in 1977, and moved up as a permanent representative when Einar Førde became the State Council in 1981. She has been a permanent representative of the Workers' Party since 1985. Anneliese has been a member of several committees for these 15 years. For the first four years, she was a member of the Financial Committee, then of the Municipal and Environmental Protection Committee. During the current period, she joined the Church, Education and Research Committee. In addition, for many years she was a very enthusiastic member of the Nordic Council. Her political interests spanned a wide range, from peace and disarmament, Norway's relationship with the EU, energy policy and trafficking to kindergartens, young people's living conditions, equality and housing policies. Either the issues were of major social issues or of more daily problems for individuals, she solved the task of inconvenient engagement and glow. She lived up to the demand that big business politicians also have – she was a helpful and capable ombudsman for those who needed it. In his life, Anneliese Dørum was an anti-authoritarian. She was not impressed by either money or power. Her views were guided by the belief that it is possible to build a more fair and solidarity society. In line with this, she put her mark on the political debate. This was noted by Stortinget when she became the Advocate General of the New Act on Financial Activities and Institutions, specifically focusing her attention on the activities of fund brokers, and in 1992, when she fought against the merger of UNI and Storebrand, and then Storebrand's acquisition of Skandia. At Stortinget we were happy in Anneliese, although her days here were not always as easy. We will miss her expedient commitment, her good mood and insistentness, and not least her honesty. For she went not on accord with what she thought was right; foolish, friendly and respected she was, but also annoyingly steadfast. Anneliese was the leader of Stortinget's sports team for several years. We all know of her joy of traveling in nature, not least skiing. Physical activity was her prescription when life's knickers were steep. With Anneliese Dørum's death, we have lost a friendly, calm and committed fellow human being. On behalf of all of us, I would like to express my gratitude for a good friend and colleague – and respect for her long and solid efforts in society and politics. We will remember Anneliese Dørum with joy. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e95	The former alternate of Akershu County, Rikke Lind, has taken the seat as a representative. President Kirsti Kolle Grondahl and representatives of Vidar Bjørnstad, Kjell Engebretsen, Ursula Evje, Odd Eriksen, Britt Hildeng, Annelise Höegh, Inger Stolt-Nielsen, Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, Ivar Østberg, Jon Olav Alstad, Per Sandberg, Morten Lund, Anne Helen Rui and Elsa Skarbøvik, who have been licensed, have again taken seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: André Kukkestad For Finnmark County: Inger Lise Balandin For Eastfold County: Morten Olsen The representative Steinar Bastesen is informed that he is withdrawing the granted permit application for the period from 14 November to 17 November. – This message is taken into account. Two permit applications are available: from the Central Party Group on Welfare leave of the representative Anne Enger Lahnstein from 14 November to 17 November from the representative Ivar Østberg on sick leave from 17 November until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Tron Erik HovindFor Troms County: Ruth Stenersen
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e195	Tron Erik Hovind is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e200	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e205	I allow myself to propose Øyvind Korsberg and Ursula Evje.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e211	Øyvind Korsberg and Ursula Evje are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Øyvind Korsberg and Ursula Evje are unanimously elected as chairpersons of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e226	When Norway takes place in the UN Security Council from the turn of the year, it is in line with a long-term international commitment that has broad support in this room. It has been a great strength for Norway that throughout the post-war period we have had a broad cross-political agreement on the main lines of our work in the United Nations. It is in our national interest to continue the work of an international society based on the UN Charter, international law and binding intergovernmental cooperation. As a result of Norway’s support to the UN, it is natural that we seek, at reasonable intervals, to take direct responsibility for international peace and security through membership of the Security Council. Norway has asked the United Nations Member State for a mandate to act in the interests of peace with the duties and rights of membership of the Security Council. The choice of Norway is a declaration of trust that commits us all to action. The vote in New York on 10 October demonstrated with all clarity that the comprehensive election campaign, which lasted for four years, was both necessary and important. I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the election going as well as it did. This applies not least to the King and Queen, the previous government and many of you who are here today. This also applies to the thousands of women and men who have contributed to the promotion of a picture of Norway as an important contributor to peace and development under the UN flag or in peace and assistance activities. Now we have to reconcile the forces with full attention to the two-year term of membership that begins on 1 January next year. The UN Charter gives the 15 Member States of the Security Council the primary responsibility for maintaining international peace and security on behalf of all UN members. When the Security Council takes decisions under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter, the decisions bind all countries. In that case, the Security Council has exceptional authority and the power to impose enforcement measures. The Security Council's decisions have been in the process of creating history. I am thinking here of the resolutions on the situation in the Middle East, but also of the first economic sanctions decision against South-Rhoedsia in 1968, and the arms boycott of the apartheid regime in South Africa in 1977. Common to all of them is that they directly address the situation in crisis-affected areas and define the framework for international policies. It is thus a major and responsible task facing Norway. The government will give this task the highest priority. We will show ourselves worthy of the trust of the world community. At the same time, we must be sober and realistic in terms of our ability to influence the decisions of the Council. The five permanent members – the United States, Russia, China, the United Kingdom and France – represent the work of the Council in practice more than the other members. This is due not only to the right of veto, but also to the experience gained by these five major acts over many years of work in the Council. However, there is no doubt that even permanent members do not have the opportunity to win their views by means of skilled craftsmanship based on insight and experience, and good diplomacy. In addition to close and good cooperation with other countries in the Security Council, in the weeks to come, we will initiate a closer dialogue with key regional actors in the south, such as South Africa and India. Very much of the work of the Security Council is about political crisis management. The Council's agenda is largely governed by international events. The ongoing work will therefore require the majority of our attention. Although we will not be able to predict with certainty what issues will be put on the agenda of the Security Council in the next two years, some conflict areas point out. The situation in the Middle East has been on the Security Council's agenda for a number of years. The recent unrest and violence immediately resulted in the situation in the Middle East being addressed to the Security Council. We must expect that the situation in the Middle East will also shape the work of the Council during our membership period. But in several other regions too, there is a long way to go to a safe and stable peace. The situation in the Balkans will continue to confront us with major challenges. The democratic revolution in Yugoslavia hopefully means the beginning of a new and better future for the region. But the situation in this troubled, south-east corner of Europe is complicated and will require vigilance on the part of the Council. Conflicts in Africa will undoubtedly continue to mark the agenda of the Security Council in our period. Asia and Latin America also represent parts of the world where there has been an experience of a number of serious conflicts and where the preparedness of the Security Council must be high. As regards longer-term work under the auspices of the Security Council, the Government will focus in particular on the following three main areas: Firstly, we will focus on the underlying causes of conflict and war, such as poverty and underdevelopment, inequalities and oppression. The UN needs a broad-based strategy, using a variety of instruments, to contribute to solutions to today’s complex conflicts. Secondly, the ability of the United Nations to plan and carry out peace operations needs to be strengthened. We will contribute to this. The follow-up to the so-called Brahimi report becomes a central tool. Thirdly, we want to focus specifically on Africa's challenges. Issues relating to peace and security in this continent have taken a great deal of the time and attention of the Security Council in recent years, while many of the conflicts in question remain unresolved. In putting the spotlight on underlying causes of conflict and war, we in Norway will focus in particular on the links between peace and development. Peace creates development. Evolution requires peace. Norway will therefore focus on the link between military intervention, emergency aid, long-term development assistance and the work on reconciliation and peace. Here, Norway has a lot to contribute — giving our experience and position as one of the most important contributors to development and humanitarian efforts internationally, and facilitating a number of peace processes. Not least, it will be a priority for us to ensure that humanitarian considerations and respect for human rights are respected in the Council's handling of crises and complex peace operations. Humanitarian aid workers are becoming more and more targets and victims in conflict situations where volunteers have gone out to help the weakest. This is both unacceptable and very worrying. Thus, a key theme of our long-term work in the Security Council will be to contribute to an overall approach to peace building and crisis management, both in order to prevent conflicts, to better manage crises when they break out, and to prevent the conflict from rekindling. It is particularly important to strengthen the United Nations’ capacity to assist countries undergoing the difficult and often long-term transition from war to peace. The ongoing work of the Security Council means that we need to address issues that are already on the Council's agenda, as well as new issues that arise. The Security Council is increasingly dealing with regional and other conflicts originating from internal disputes. The weight of the work of the Council takes place within the framework of Chapters VI and VII of the United Nations Charter. Chapter IV concerns the peaceful settlement of disputes, where the instruments are of a political nature and require voluntary follow-up by the parties. Chapter VII provides a basis for the application of coercive measures in situations where peace and security are threatened and where other instruments have not or will obviously not be produced. Long-term informal consultations are often ongoing on how to deal with a case. Norway will have to deal with current conflicts in such situations, which will often result in difficult balances. Penalties are one of the coercive measures available to the international community under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter to respond to threats to international peace and security. The use of non-military coercive measures will in practice focus on the introduction of different types of sanctions. The use of financial penalties may be an effective means of bringing the States and regimes which break the acceptable boundaries of action into line. However, the application of coercive measures will always be in dispute. It is therefore important to avoid as far as possible unintended effects. As a member of the Security Council, Norway will have the opportunity to contribute actively to the work already under way in the Council, with a view to making penalties more targeted and effective, so that they affect the real decision-makers in the sanctioned country and not the civilian population. This effort to develop so-called ‘smart sanctions’ will be an important priority for us in the coming period. As a member of the Security Council, Norway will also participate in the various sanctions committees which the Council either has or will establish. It would therefore be expected that Norway will take over the Presidency of one of the Sanctions Committees currently chaired by the two outgoing Western members of the Security Council, the Netherlands and Canada. This will mean that Norway will have to assume responsibility for chairing the Sanctions Committee aimed at either Iraq or UNITA in Angola. There are now investigations in progress to determine which committee we will be responsible for, but this will not be decided until the Council formally meets at the beginning of January. It is a sad fact that recent years' relief from the sanctions against Iraq has brought very little benefit to the civilian population. On the contrary, Saddam Hussein has taken advantage of the benefits of enriching himself and his supporters, while he has cynically failed to take advantage of the opportunities to secure food and medicine for his own civilian population. Whether we are elected to lead the Sanctions Committee against Iraq or to participate in the Committee in line with the other members of the Security Council, we will place great emphasis on the concern of the civilian population. Let me say something about our second long-term main priority: to contribute to strengthening the United Nations' ability to plan and carry out peace operations. In order for the United Nations to play its central role in the work on international peace and security, it is important that the organisation be given resources to carry out the tasks assigned to it by the Security Council. This is particularly important today, as the increased number of peace operations has stretched the UN's capacity to the breaking point. Secretary-General Kofi Annan established in our panel of internationally recognized experts, who was tasked with investigating the United Nations' ability to plan and carry out peace operations. The panel report, named after the panel leader, former Algerian Foreign Minister Brahimi, was recently presented. The report conducts a thorough review of the organisation and implementation of peace operations by the United Nations and outlines a wide range of recommendations aimed at strengthening the United Nations’ ability to plan and carry out peace operations. The report assumes that conflict prevention and peace-building must form an important part of the UN peace process. On Thursday we will hold a seminar in Oslo with participants from the Nordic countries on the follow-up to the Brahimi report. The UN Deputy Secretary-General, Louise Frechette – who has been given special responsibility by Secretary-General Kofi Annan for the work on the Brahimi report – will also take part in the seminar. On the Norwegian side, we want to help strengthen and further develop the capacity of the Security Council to implement conflict prevention measures. We will work for a more active use of preventive diplomacy against potential parties in conflicts. We support the proposal in the Brahimi report on the more frequent use of UN missions to potential conflict areas. At the same time, we have to expect that this will meet with resistance from countries that will perceive it as interference in ‘inner matters’. We see it as particularly important to strengthen the capacity of the United Nations Secretariat to plan, prepare and carry out peace operations. In particular, the UN Peace Operation Department must be given increased resources. The Brahimi report calls on the Security Council to extend its contact and cooperation with countries contributing to peace operations with troops. These countries need to be more closely involved in the process before a mandate is adopted by the Security Council. We have previously placed great emphasis on this from Norway, and it is therefore natural for us to follow it up within the Security Council. At the same time, it is essential that the United Nations forces are provided with the equipment, training and resources necessary to carry out operations. In the Security Council, we will be particularly concerned that adopted mandates for peace operations are proportionate to the task facing the UN and that the necessary resources are made available. From the Norwegian side, we want women to be more actively involved in peacekeeping activities and conflict resolution. Women often have experience and an approach to conflicts that are particularly important in planning and implementing peace-keeping operations, especially in relation to peace-building. Some places, such as Kosovo and East Timor, directly help the UN to ensure law and order through the participation of civil police with executive functions. Through training, civil police and legal experts contribute to building independent and democratic institutions, which is a valuable contribution to more stable and peaceful societies. We will work to upgrade the role of civil police in peace operations. Through the various Norwegian preparedness mechanisms, we have opportunities to contribute across a wide range. A well-functioning justice and police system is important to contribute to the long-term stability and reconstruction of a society after conflicts. We will therefore, as a concrete strategy for peace-building, emphasise reform of the police and justice sector in countries that are being rebuilt after conflicts. Only fair peace gives lasting peace. Faithful and effective judicial settlement is essential for reconciliation between former opponents. The establishment by the Security Council of its own international criminal courts as part of peace-building activities has been an important milestone in peace and reconciliation. A breakthrough treaty establishing a permanent international criminal court was negotiated in 1998 and will enter into force once 60 States have ratified it. This could happen during our membership period of the Security Council. From the Norwegian side, we will maintain our strong commitment to the development of international criminal law. This means that we will take part in the responsibility of the Security Council for the operation of the established criminal courts with regard to the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda. We will work to create a basis for optimum cooperation between the Security Council and the future International Criminal Court. The last and third main priority of the Government in the long-term Security Council is to contribute to the development of more effective means of preventing and resolving conflicts in Africa. The basis for a positive development in Africa will easily crumble if we do not manage to find such instruments. Nearly two thirds of the issues dealt with in the Security Council in recent years have been related to issues relating to the African continent. Africa, particularly in the 1990s, has been affected by a wide range of conflicts that have resulted in extensive humanitarian suffering and loss of life. We have recently had a major and bloody conflict between Ethiopia and Eritrea. In the Democratic Republic of Congo, several countries are involved in acts of war. Countries such as Sierra Leone, Angola and Sudan continue to suffer from civil war that is causing the civilian population great suffering. The tragic genocide in Rwanda has stood as a symbol of world society’s unhappiness. The need to operate with a broad security concept seems particularly relevant to Africa. The conflicts we have seen in Africa in recent years are characterised by their very complex nature, where historical, economic and ethnic conditions play an important role. They have often had their origins in poverty and lack of opportunities to improve the lives of individuals. Although several African countries are richly equipped by nature, this has not always contributed to growth and development. Instead, they have often caused violence and civil war and have helped to prolong and exacerbate conflicts. Control of important natural resources allows for the recruitment of poor people, especially in countries with poorly developed governance and limited capacity to maintain law and order. Easy access to small arms has also contributed to triggering and maintaining conflicts on the African continent. One of the prerequisites for the UN to contribute to peace and security in Africa is that Member States show sufficient willingness to engage. The primary responsibility for resolving the conflicts must rest on the countries themselves. The UN should support these efforts, and it is particularly important that the Security Council engages. A complex conflict picture requires a complex and long-term commitment. Efforts are required across a wide range — from military forces, the establishment of police and judicial systems and humanitarian assistance to comprehensive support for long-term development measures. The conflict in Africa is just a reflection of the need for a comprehensive and integrated approach to conflict prevention, conflict management and conflict resolution. The use of coercive measures and military instruments must be supported by efforts in the political, humanitarian and development fields. As a member of the Security Council, it will be expected that we will actively contribute to the Council's work on resolving conflicts in Africa. However, given our great commitment to the NATO force in the Balkans, it will be limited what we can contribute in terms of military personnel and equipment in peace operations in Africa. It becomes all the more important to contribute in other areas where Norway has specific assumptions. We are already strongly committed to emergency aid and humanitarian aid in many of the conflict areas in question. We have given our full support to the mediation efforts of the Organization for African Unity (OAU). We have made concrete contributions to this work. Combating poverty in Africa is also an important contribution to conflict prevention and peace. Combating poverty is the main objective of our development policy. This area of activity has an important dimension of peace and security, which we want to include in the work of the Security Council. Norway’s partnership with priority countries of cooperation in Africa is an important contribution to stability and security. At the same time, it provides a good basis for cooperation and support for the development of African responses to the challenges. I would also like to highlight the threat posed by infectious diseases and, in particular, HIV/AIDS to the safety and stability of African countries. A whole generation of Africans are threatened. HIV/AIDS is now a high priority in the long-term development of the Government. Norway will work towards a high focus on HIV/AIDS prevention, including in the context of humanitarian crises and international peace operations. On the Norwegian side, the overall objective is to strengthen the UN's peacekeeping and peace-building role – especially in Africa. This is also something that African countries are concerned about. Only the UN has the necessary trust and authority to play such a role. At the same time, it is important to strengthen regional African organisations in order to allow African countries themselves, in close cooperation with the United Nations, to assume greater responsibility for the prevention and resolution of conflicts on their own continent. Norway has therefore entered into cooperation with African countries on the building of competences and capacity for participation in peace operations. One of the projects in question, which has been very successful, is called training for peace in southern Africa and was launched in 1995. Until now, the project has trained about 2 000 people. The Government will continue this kind of work to strengthen African countries’ ability to participate in peace operations. We will also work to ensure that the international community provides sufficient resources to enable African countries and organisations to take on a stronger role. We must work to ensure that Africa is given at least as good an opportunity as others to maintain and take responsibility for peace and security on their own continent. Membership of the Security Council commits and creates expectations. The government is assessing the economic and administrative implications for Norway. However, an overall overview will only be available in January next year. This has its background in the fact that questions that may affect the extent of the tasks we face will not be addressed until the end of the New Year, for example. what I mentioned, which penalty committee we are to be responsible for. The government will therefore return to the Stortinget early in the New Year with the financial consequences of membership. I have now drawn up the main priorities of the Government for membership of the Security Council. We will follow these up through concrete initiatives. We will help the Council to increasingly work for an overall approach to prevention, conflict management and peace-building. We will help to ensure that efforts in military, political, humanitarian, resource and development policy areas are interconnected and mutually reinforcing. At the same time, we must be sober and realistic. Only through cooperation with other members of the Council and a strict prioritisation of our own efforts will we be able to contribute effectively to international peace and security. Membership of the Security Council becomes a national task. In this context, it will be important to draw on the knowledge and experience of our foreign policy research institutions and many non-governmental organisations in Norway. The government will consult the bodies of the Storting, if necessary, and it will be natural to return to the activities of the Security Council in the presentations the Government will give to the Storing in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e377	The President will propose that the Secretary of State’s statement be discussed at a later meeting — and considers it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e389	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time for the President’s introductory speech be set at 15 minutes, for the main speakers for each party group and for the members of the Government 10 minutes and for the other speakers 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e396	We're dealing with St.meld today. No 21 for 1999-2000, ‘Human value in the centre. Human Rights Action Plan». With that, we're talking about the most basic values in human life, the most important prerequisites for a good life for all people. That is why it is so positive that there is a broad national consensus on human rights and their gradually strengthened place in society's values and laws. Both the Human Rights Act and this communication were prepared by the Bondevik government. A separate government council responsible for human rights issues made a concrete statement on a priority of these issues on the part of that government. And there's hardly any doubt that the Bondevik government had a power in this work that previous governments have lacked. It is the Committee's wish that the Stoltenberg Government also make clear a coordinated responsibility for these matters, and I have positive expectations about it. I show you, among other things: to the annual report that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has now issued, where the Minister of Foreign Affairs is clearly committed to a high level of ambition in this area. He says, among other things: in the foreword: ‘We want to pursue an active human rights policy. In the future, the annual reports will be a measure of success.’ I have positive expectations for that; from this onwards there can be one way in this field. That the title 'Human World in the Center' is very similar to an old Left slogan, 'Human in the Center', I think it's both good and natural. In any case, it is gratifying that the large majority of the Committee subscribes to the positions and measures proposed in the action plan. The importance of implementing human rights in policies and laws cannot be overestimated. Increasingly, individuals can find protection and support in these universal rules and their enforcement. The cancellation notice has been treated for a year in Stortinget. One might think that it's a long time; on the other hand, this is a kind of complicated question where it's important that the process and the dialogues can go their way. It is also time for the Storting to re-treat human rights on the basis of a big message. The last time was in 1977. Much has happened since then, both formally and effectively. Human rights must be said to have strengthened their status as an international basis of values and to benefit more and more people today. Today, at the national level, we have a completely different understanding that human rights also challenge the Norwegian judicial system and the Norwegian society, and not just issues in other countries. In this context, it may be sufficient to mention issues related to the status of a group as an indigenous person. If you go to Retstidende, you will probably find that until the second half of the 1980s there could probably be some other reference to articles in the human rights conventions, but they had a rather withdrawn role in the reasoning of the courts. The situation is clearly different today. There is no doubt that, in the last 10-15 years, the courts, and especially the Supreme Court, have passed a number of judgments in which questions relating to human rights have a completely different meaning for reasoning and decisions than before. This may be partly due to the fact that some laws incorporate international obligations, such as: the Criminal Procedures Act of 1981. More importantly, there has been work on human rights issues in legal work and Norway has been convicted by the European Court of Human Rights for violations of this Convention. The fact that Norway has also been criticised for violations of human rights by international monitoring bodies has probably also had its significance in recognising that Norwegian legislation can also have problematic aspects in relation to human rights. This could be a strength in international work. It may be easier to win hearing because human rights are important, and that one must work actively with this, when one can also point to one's own problems, and how we handle them. In this context, I allow myself to express some disappointment at the fact that the Labour Party and the Right would not take part in the comments made by the centre parties and the Socialist Left Party in the vote, with more binding statements in relation to custody. There has been some concern that, when some conventions have been transposed by law, and in particular the three conventions incorporated by the Law on Human Rights, the other human rights conventions, including the Convention on the Rights of Women, may be reduced compared to the previous one. There is reason to stress that this is not a sensible and correct assessment. Of course, those conventions that are not incorporated into Norwegian law should still have at least the same weight as that previously assumed. In my opinion, it is a clear value that human rights issues challenge our own legislation, and that in some context it represents a clear barrier to our legislative authority. With regard to a number of questions, it may make sense to be forced to think again when, based on specific issues, you might want to solve the problem of a new rule of law a little quickly. That is why, in a majority opinion, the Committee has also asked the Presidency to consider in more detail how to strengthen its own work on human rights issues, and has also asked for a review of the important role of the Ombudsman for the administration in these matters, precisely in order to strengthen the role of the Ombudsman in these matters nationally and internationally. The challenges Norway has faced in relation to our detention practices may include: serve as an example. There is reason to stress that even suspects of criminal offences are entitled to dignity. One must be hard on the hard ones, as a former Minister of Justice has said, but they also have a right to a minimum of treatment, for example. on smooth cell. It must be allowed to get a plea and meet the judge the day after rest, and perhaps with a clean shirt on and a shower behind him. These are also human rights issues. The action plan covers a lot, and work on such a comprehensive plan also tells a little about demarcation problems, because almost all policy areas with more or less rights can rely on having human rights elements in them. It is difficult to draw up individual pages of the action plan, but I will take a few. One side is the work and proposal of a national institution for human rights. I think it's very important to quickly get in place, and that the Institute of Human Rights can quickly evolve into such a national institution. Now does not give a big message of money to such a national institution, but it will be necessary, and I think many of us will be engaged in trying to get it in place in connection with the state budget for next year. Other things in the plan are, among other things. the law against ethnic discrimination, which is important to put in place, and information work, education, etc., which is very central to the plan, because it is so important that many more are concerned with human rights issues and have knowledge of such issues in their daily activities. There is no doubt that Norwegian business, which is becoming increasingly international, needs a higher level of knowledge about this and needs good procedures to take care of their responsibilities for human rights even when operating out. Overall, the action plan represents a long step towards greater commitment and better results in the field of human rights. In order to ensure that the responsibility does not crumble in good faith, the Committee, as I have said before, has therefore underlined the need for coordination of the work of the Government. I would like to underline what the Committee says about the universal nature of human rights, and therefore they cannot be culturally related. We cannot underestimate the fact that many of the abuses are committed, committed and legitimized under the guise of religious or cultural characteristics and traditions. We cannot allow respect for other cultures and traditions to override the requirement of the individual's right to life, freedom and privacy. In such matters, there is no reference to the ‘internal affairs’ of countries. The international community has the right and the duty to protect individuals from abuse, regardless of its justification. Although there are a number of important issues related to human rights in Norway, there is every reason to stress that the main challenges are naturally linked to new democracies, totalitarian states and poor countries. A little different can be said that it is in the matter of the death penalty. Although there are countries like China and others that have the worst figures, it is important to address the criticism of the death penalty, stronger to the United States than has been the case so far. I am very pleased that the committee is so clear in its criticism of the United States' position on the death penalty. The Committee majority has also stressed that there is a need to be willing to take non-traditional measures. There is reason to recall here that part of the issue is related to the fact that the death penalty is a legislative issue for each state, and that these states are not direct parties to the international and international work. This means, in fact, that it is important to carry out influence work that can reach the individual Länder and their legislative assembly. Then there is not only enough bilateral contacts between Norway and the federal authorities in Washington. That is why it is important that this work is done in a number of areas. I also think it is important that a criticism of the United States in this area, and that it should be part of the official Norwegian policy against the death penalty, is also borne out in Norwegian policy by more moderate forces. To put it a little outside-parliamentary, what we love is America, which has to lead this criticism, and not just those who traditionally don't. In my opinion, there is reason to stress the importance of human rights for children. The Child Convention is assumed to be incorporated into Norwegian law as soon as possible. It is, like the three conventions incorporated by the Human Rights Act, a general convention that applies to all people. In the setting, it is called, among other things,\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. ‘... training shall be given in the Children’s Convention to decision-makers on the welfare and legal certainty of children. This is relevant, inter alia, to local politicians and other authorities at local level.’;» It could be close to challenging Norwegian municipalities to put the Children's Convention on the agenda, perhaps through a separate case on how to follow up the Children's Convention in each municipality. I would like to stress that I am not aiming at a new state order against the municipalities, although a just enough can say that already ratifying the convention in principle is such a requirement. However, the key must be to activate the initiative and creativity of each municipality. In this context, a person will be able to learn a number of lessons from work done in Sweden in relation to the municipalities. Otherwise, I find particular reason to stress that the situation of children who are asylum seekers is particularly important. I have a lot of sense of the view that has been promoted in recent days, that asylum-seekers who have children without their parents should be seen as a child protection institution. Such an approach would probably show that it lacks some of the way we care about their situation today. As regards the comment from SV in relation to the Children’s Convention, I would just like to make a brief remark that the number of committees has chosen not to decide on how the incorporation itself is to be carried out. While it may be reasonable to incorporate the Convention as such, it may also be considered that the transposition of the Convention rules would be more effective if it were to be incorporated into individual legal provisions where the Convention would be relevant. For my part, I would like to add that the question of access for children to comment on questions relating to the child itself is very important. In the field of custody, Norway itself has met with strong criticism. All parties are concerned about taking this seriously and preventing us from again evicting ourselves internationally in this way. Nevertheless, the setting shows a different approach to this issue. In my view, the majority do not take this issue seriously enough. Sufficient evidence has been provided that Norwegian custodians are not guaranteed sufficient treatment. The note from the centre parts and SV should therefore have been given a majority on this point. On the other hand, it is gratifying that an overall committee emphasizes the freedom of religion and the protection of the rights of homosexuals. Finally, there is reason to stop at what the Committee says about the obligations of industry and civil society on human rights issues. As I said at the outset, we are talking about the most fundamental prerequisites for good human life and a common moral obligation to secure these rights for all people. Therefore, Norwegian authorities must also ensure that Norwegian residents and businesses feel committed to these values and comply with them where they come into the world. Not least because of this, it is important that the tabs of human rights are kept high in everyone's consciousness. This may take place not least through the measures proposed for information, education, education and research. There is a broad consensus on the main lines of today's theme, but there are some dissidents in the committee, not least with regard to one party – the Progress Party. I could spend some time expressing disappointment at the areas where the Progress Party wants to take this one, but I expect the representatives of the Progress Party themselves to come up with those questions. Nevertheless, I would like to make a brief comment on one proposal, namely that of the Progress Party and the Right on negative organisational freedom. There I would like to refer to what the Left said in connection with the examination by the Storting of the proposal on 1 June 1999. The central justification of the two parties making the proposal is a court of law. As far as I know, this judgment is appealed to the Supreme Court, and I find it little natural with a final assessment of any legislative issues before there is a final judgment. Then we just want the government to come back to Stortinget with a statement on this issue, unless the government thinks it makes sense with a bill. I do not think there is any reason to make this issue a major issue in this debate. Finally, questions relating to human rights are complex. They may not be all-rounders in the political debate, such as gas prices and hospital cows, but there are also important issues that should become more and more involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e466	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e469	I noticed the honourable Member who spokesperson Sponheim had about the Workers' Party and today's government in the matter of whether they were troubling in relation to the work on human rights issues. I would like to remind the case-speaker that it was Harlem Brundtland's government that gave mandate to and put down the selection that presented the NOU, which in turn provided the basis for the incorporation of the European Convention on Human Rights and the UN Conventions into Norwegian law. And as case spokesman for the odelstingsproposition in the Judicial Committee at that time, I know that it was the Stortinget that instructed the Government of Bondevik to come back to Stortinget with a superior action plan for human rights, and that there were two parties – the Labour Party and the Right – that were perhaps the biggest drivers in this case. My question to the case spokesperson Sponheim is if this is not true. Otherwise, I noticed that the case spokesperson pointed out that he wondered that the Right Party and the Labour Party were not involved in the comment on custody imprisonment. The Government of Stoltenberg has submitted a proposal for a change to the Criminal Procedures Act, which is the main theme, and it is the Justice Committee that has this matter to deal with. My question will then be: Is it not natural that the Committee on Legal Affairs, which has the case, should also work on the complex and that other committees should respect this? Isn't it natural that we have such a work order here in the house?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e476	It's my opinion that these questions are too important to be used in an internal shift about who's best in the class. It has never been my intention to do so, except to record that from the mid-1980s until today we have had an increasing focus on human rights, both in the courts, in the Norwegian opinion and in the political debate. I think many of us should share the credit for that. And I don't have any problem with handing out honor to previous governments also because I have contributed to such a positive development. I would like to stress that the previous government, which presented the big message we are dealing with today, prioritised this so highly that it chose to have its own government council coordinating the work of a government where these questions must have spread to a very large number of responsible state councils. I have registered that today's government has chosen to do it differently, and I have full confidence that it will be properly maintained. I also stated in my speech that I have positive expectations that Foreign Minister Jagland will ensure the necessary coordination in the government's work on these issues. I have expressed my appreciation for the annual report that has now been presented. And then time will show if we can jointly maintain the focus on these very central, but very complicated, questions. When it comes to the issue of custody, I think it's even more sad if there's going to be a kind of struggle between committees on such an important issue as this. There is no doubt that there is a focus on human rights in this area of Norway. And when the Storting then discusses human rights issues in a broad context, it is absolutely necessary that these questions be addressed in a debate on this. Then the necessary legal follow-up and concreteisation of the legal work done in the Judicial Committee and subsequent decisions in the field of edifice and laying, but it is in my opinion absolutely necessary to address the crucial issues of human rights work in Norway, for example. with regard, inter alia, to the use of: smooth cell.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e486	The rapporteur just said that there was a struggle between committees, and then he aimed at what was really a topic he himself brought up, namely issues related to detention, where a majority of people usually point out that these are issues that are already under consideration in the Justice Committee. They are also waiting for another case, which will make them fully involved in these questions. And then I don't understand these results from the case rapporteur here in the Chamber. He also knows this, and he recognizes that these are important questions. Fortunately, I have noticed that he has not suggested that these are not important questions for the Labour Party and the Right – that would be too late too – but I wonder if not the explanation for Mr. Sponheim's commitment to this very thing must be that the Left is not represented in the Justice Committee. Now I thought he was in a center collaboration, which could lead to other parties taking care of these questions, but now leave it. I had actually intended to commend the rapporteur for the work on this setting, because it is correct, as he himself said, that it is essentially and on the most important issues characterised by broad consensus in the committee. Therefore, it is a little wonder when Sponheim himself says that the importance of implementing human rights in the law cannot be exaggerated. He just said that in his article. And then it's amazing that Sponheim and the center parties are so unclear about the negative freedom of organisation. For there are now two courts which have held that this has not been adequately dealt with. Why are they unable to support the proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e495	It is my rather simple opinion that when the Stortinget on a broad basis discusses human rights also in Norway, there is a point to be able to spend some time in the debate and also in the positioning of this which has, after all, been questions raised by the torture committee against Norway in terms of the use of smooth cell and conditions during custody etc. I record that there is a minority who are ready to express clear political views on this, among other things. with clear deadlines for the use of custody prisons and some more banal but practical issues in matters of custody detention. I have not suggested in any way that a large number of people will not have the same opinions in a later stage, but it is my opinion that it belongs in a debate on human rights precisely because there are areas where we have an international focus on us. That is the reason why the Left in this setting is concerned with this issue and, of course, not representation in committees. The left has recently had the pleasure of sitting in government and having a Minister of Justice like, among other things. In his work, he was very concerned about these questions, which makes me think that we can soon reach good law decisions in Norway that take care of this. On the issue of negative organisational freedom, the centre parties agree on a case-by-case basis with the Right and the Advance Party. And we're also going to say that in a comment. I do not think it is natural to raise this point as perhaps the only decision you are making in dealing with an action plan on human rights, and which is not, of course, affected in the big picture at all. But when we had to get a final verdict in this area, we are ready to deal with the question of what place the negative freedom of organisation must have in Norwegian law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e502	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e505	The rapporteur has presented this setting in an excellent way. I will also, as Siri Frost Sterri did, give commendation to the representative Sponheim for the work he has done in the committee, and the way in which he has handled this communication. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that each individual, man, woman and child is unique, with inviolable rights. Individuals shall be protected against repression, poverty, abuse and degradation. As the rapporteur stressed, it is a unanimous committee which establishes the principle that human rights are universal and absolute. It is not that any human rights apply today and others tomorrow. Nor is it true that some apply to men and others to women. Human rights can never be culturally related. This means that all people should be able to participate in these rights at all times. It also means that no religious or cultural tradition can defend human rights violations. This concerns in particular the right to life, the right to privacy and the right to be protected from torture and abuse, but also the right to health, to work, to social participation. In a note to the Committee, Amnesty International writes that the organisation records a worrying trend in the field of trafficking against women, where the changing of cultural and religious traditions increasingly leads to violations of fundamental human rights. Amnesty writes: ‘Such changes in cultural standards and traditions often come in response to general societal developments. It affects both women’s civil and political rights, such as the right to life and personal integrity and their economic, social and cultural rights, such as the right to work and education.’;» A few days after the Taliban guerrilla’s takeover in Afghanistan, I read in the Daily Telegraph the shocking description of the stoning of the first woman in the country, where women are now walking around like wandering prisons with lattice in front of their eyes, where boys receive education and medical treatment while such elementary rights are denied girls, and where women are excluded from working life and income. When Minister of Oil and Energy Marit Arnstad was in Saudi Arabia, she was photographed in the desert sand with her little son in her arms. If a Saudi woman had gone in the same way and looked the same, she would be whipped. If she had had a child outside of marriage, she would be be beheaded. Violation of women's integrity also underlines the responsibility of States to prevent and criminal prosecutions committed by private actors. If countries do not follow this up, the international community has an obligation to do so. Examples include forcible marriages, sexual mutilation and honorary drap. But this also applies to the discrimination of religious groups against homosexuals. In this context, the Committee would also refer to a worrying development in the violation of fundamental rights for homosexuals. This includes, inter alia: case in a number of developing countries such as Namibia, Zimbabwe and Nicaragua, countries currently receiving Norwegian development assistance. It is a unanimous committee that believes that the focus should also be on the rights of homosexuals in Norway’s aid policy. Otherwise, the Committee believes that strengthening the capacity of recipients to respect human rights must be an objective of our development policy. Norway will be able to act with greater weight internationally if we see human rights and development cooperation in a broader context. Assistance should also support the realisation of human rights both in policy-making and in the implementation of specific programmes. Earlier today, we have been given an account of Norway's work in the New Year's UN Security Council. This week is a delegation of women parliamentarians from Rwanda visiting the Stortinget. Their report on the near past of their country is gloomy, including that of the United Nations as a world organization. We will discuss the presentation in a later meeting, but let me just stress here that we in the Security Council should reinforce the human rights effects of conflicts, as the Committee also says. The right to life is a fundamental human right. The death penalty is to violate this right. We must fight and, in principle, distance ourselves from the death penalty, no matter what country and under what regime the death penalty is practised. We cannot rank the view of the death penalty on the basis of a country's constitution or case law. The Committee considers that Norway should engage in the fight against the death penalty in all countries that practise it. With the human rights dialogue we have with Burma and China, these countries are mentioned separately, in addition to Norway having to take the death penalty with our NATO allies, that is, Turkey and the United States. In line with what I said earlier, let me add that developments in Saudi Arabia are extremely worrying in this field. In a globalised world, international driving rules for trade, establishment, investment and production are important to prevent social dumping and exchange of cheap labour, including the use of child workers. Norwegian companies are also faced with new ethical and legal obligations in their internationalisation. A unanimous committee believes that Norwegian companies should include human rights in their foreign strategy. In addition, the Workers’ Party, SV and the Centre Parties consider that Norwegian businesses established abroad must comply with the UN and the ILO Conventions on Professional Rights and contribute to the raising of professional standards in the host country. I take note that the Right and Advance Party are not included in such a comment. The action plan on human rights, as presented in the Communication, aims to incorporate four central human rights conventions into Norwegian law. One of these is the Convention on Racial Discrimination. The Committee believes that the legislation on the prohibition of ethnic discrimination must be strengthened. I must add that I believe that racism must also be combated by understanding how multicultural diversity can enrich our societies, as well as committed European action. I would like to mention that European Social Democrats have taken an important initiative in the fight against racism through their own charter for an anti-racist society. The lots signing the Charter undertake to follow a number of principles such as: shall defend fundamental human rights. Parties of different political colours – also an increasing number of Christian Democratic parties in Europe – have joined the Charter, and I would urge the other Norwegian parties to do what the Labour Party has done. It is also important to ensure that civil society is given the opportunity to contribute to the respect and strengthening of human rights. I would like to point out that the Committee addresses the issue of setting up meeting places between voluntary organisations and the more professional environments. We mention here, among other things. The Holocaust Centre, the Falstad Centre and United World College, and stress that they will need support. Finally, the human rights action plan has a five-year perspective and contains both a national and international part. In addition, it contains more than 300 measures, as described in the Communication. The plan is a major challenge for the government's work on human rights in the future, and I wish the Foreign Minister and other government councils happiness in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e545	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e548	As the rapporteur did, I would also like to stress the importance of the broad consensus that it is during the discussion of this communication on all key issues. It also appeared from Marit Nybakk's articles. The main challenges are obviously related to conditions beyond the borders of the country, but they are still part of the treatment of such a message to sweep at its own door. This is why the Communication also addresses some of the issues where Norway has been criticised by various organisations and monitoring committees for human rights, such as: Amnesty. In some areas, the Workers' Party, in other words, together with the Right, has put itself on a rather formalistic line in terms of concreteities. This applies, inter alia, to: by Ot.prp. No 81 for 1999-2000, and that's okay. But what's important to notice here is that the workers' party government got on the same line and chose to stand behind the Bondevik government's human rights message. That is why the main principles stand there, and that is positive. So in the comments, the Workers' Party does not want to take a further position on concrete legislative amendments, and it understands you too. The minority has not done that either. But it could be interesting to get some more general views from the government party on important issues related to custody, such as: time limits, the practice of letter and visitation bans, the use of police arrests and a number of other issues that have been criticised and raised with the Norwegian authorities by various human rights organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e559	It is a unanimous committee that underlines the criticisms that Norway has been subjected to regarding the widespread use of care. I do not see that there is any disagreement in substance as to the view of the measures that we need to address in relation to improving detention in Norway. I would also like to remind you that a unanimous committee stresses that, partly through the development of rules and partly through practice, Norwegian practices in this area must ensure that they do not conflict with human rights. We also refer to a letter sent by State Councillor Hanne Harlem to the torture committee of the Council of Europe. But it is the case that there is an odelstningsproposition in the Judicial Committee. We believe that it was most important for the Judicial Committee to now deal with this motion for a resolution, in which the issue of care is also dealt with in depth. I also believe that the members of the various parties in the Foreign Affairs Committee will have close contact with their respective fractions in the Judicial Committee. But as I said, this is not a matter of substance disagreement, but a matter of where matters should be dealt with. And given that this proposition is in the Justice Committee for consideration now, we find reference to the discussion in that committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e568	Marit Nybakk was very clear and ready in his post, and far on the way we share from the Right the view she presented on behalf of the Workers' Party. Among other things, she spoke out. absolute human rights. Yeah, that's full support. In one area, however, Marit Nybakk was silent, she did not mention it in a word, nor does the Workers' Party in the setting. It is linked to the issue of freedom of organisation, where it is now established that the right not to organise is not covered by the European Convention on Human Rights. What I'm wondering about is: what does the Labour Party really think about the issue of freedom of organisation, precisely because of what she herself said, that human rights are absolute – in other words, the principles we cannot agree with. Is not freedom of organisation also such a fundamental human right? And that freedom must include both the right to choose which professional/professional organisation you wish to join and the right to remain unorganised.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e575	If we look historically at the question that the representative Frost Sterri travels, it's probably not the right not to be organized what has been the main problem. The main agreement between the LO and the NHO and other similar main agreements currently protects both the right to be organised and to be unorganised. The same applies to the freedom of negotiation, the right to strike, voting rules and the issue of strike-breakers. The responsibility of the main organisations for determining wages and salaries through free collective agreements is the foundation of our democracy and the prerequisite for income policy cooperation, as developed in Norway — and as it has ensured stability, economic growth and well-being. The question of the legal protection of so-called negative organisational rights can help – and I would like to stress: can help – to support employers who are negative to professional organisation, thereby undermining the stable relationship between the employer and the employee who has ensured the development we have had of Norwegian society. That is why the Workers' Party's view is that this is a question that needs to be thoroughly investigated at best. I would also like to show, even though this seems to be a disagreement between me and the rapporteur-in-Office, that legislation is a little natural before a final judgment. It will be a fundamental question no matter what kind of case this is. But once again, this negative organisational right issue is one that at best needs to be thoroughly investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e587	When the Human Rights Act was discussed not long ago, the majority of the Judicial Committee, consisting of the Labour Party and the Right, promoted the following proposals: ‘The Government is invited within a reasonable time to incorporate into the law the UN Conventions on Child and Women’s Discrimination.’ The rapporteur said today that he believes that the suspension of the human rights notification does not take a decision on how to transpose these conventions. I perceive the committee majority so that one says no to incorporation. I would therefore like to ask Marit Nybakk: why does one leave the position that one had in the Justice Committee a short time ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e597	As far as I can see, a unanimous committee – also SV – is behind what the committee says, that ‘most of the Conventions should be incorporated into Norwegian law. A basic contribution was made when the Stortinget adopted the Human Rights Act, which incorporated three of the most central conventions on human rights into Norwegian legislation». And then the committee still says unanimously, with SV: ‘The Committee would point out that the Government must return to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible with proposals for the incorporation of several of the central conventions into the law.’ So also SV is actually unclear at this point. What the Committee stresses here – and also the rapporteur – is that we will now give the Government the freedom of action to assess how these conventions are to be transposed. It will also apply to the Children’s Convention. In other words, we do not want to decide whether they should be incorporated or otherwise incorporated into Norwegian legislation. Having said that, let me stress that I think it is very important that, in particular, the Children's Convention, in some way, be incorporated into Norwegian legislation as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e616	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e619	St.meld. No 21 is a positive message in the sense that it covers a very important theme and clarifies some key issues while at the same time providing a thorough review of a very important policy area. It is positive that the communication puts this theme on the agenda and that this has been done in such a comprehensive and thorough way, not least from an international perspective. It is also of great importance that there is so much cross-political agreement on the main content of this Communication. The Advance Party will therefore agree to pay tribute to both the case rapporteur and the Government for the work done in this matter. The party of progress considers it particularly gratifying that it is underlined by a unanimous committee that human rights are universal. Not least, it is positive that the view that human rights can never be culturally related is so clearly underlined, especially in view of the wide-ranging debate that took place some years ago on the Communist countries and developing countries, especially in the years before the fall of the Berlin Wall. At that time, a lot of people argued that there were qualitative ideological differences when it came to human rights, depending on the country in which they lived. That is why, in our opinion, what has happened in Norway and internationally is a positive development, namely that there is a breakthrough that human rights are ultimately the same for the entire population of the earth, regardless of gender, race, religion or ethnic origin. However, one element here is of course that any society needs to be assessed on the basis of its particular historical development context, especially with regard to the practical feasibility of implementing human rights. It is all the more important and even more positive that the whole committee establishes the principle that human rights are truly universal. The Progress Party therefore hopes that this will be followed up by the majority of the population in the formulation of practical foreign policy in the years to come, not least in the case of, for example, the human rights dialogue with China, where the US has shown a much more bold attitude than Norway has. One of these issues is the treatment of Taiwan by the world community — a country of over 20 million people, who have evolved into a functioning democracy and who are not even allowed to be a member of the World Health Organisation because of the fear of relations with the peoples of China. When will the government man stand up to say clearly from in his dialogue with China? As a member of the Security Council, will Norway support the annual resolutions promoted in the UN with criticism of China’s human rights violations in relation to Tibet, as well as its own citizens, Falun Gong and Taiwan? Should the principle of universality really apply, Norway cannot, in the long run, defend a casual attitude towards criticising China. The responsibility is even greater when we are now in the United Nations context at the large table as a member of the Security Council. Even more clearly, the principle of universality is underlined by a unanimous committee when it is said that the ‘rights of individuals may be restricted only in order to protect the rights of others’. This means, in the opinion of the Progress Party, that it is also necessary to criticise, for example: Russia for the war in Chechnya, especially in the international forums where the issue of human rights is central. Just to maintain the credibility of the universality principle, it is imperative to criticise ‘the big boys in the street’, even in contexts where Norway can cost some friends in the short term, etc. It is important to criticise human rights violations also in Turkey, which is our ally. But when that is said, it must also be said that there must be proportions in the criticism. It must affect the regimes of all ideological deportations that violate it, and not least the criticism must be proportionate to the extent of the abuses being committed. Another positive element of this Communication is its emphasis on domestic policy as well. As has been said earlier here today, if Norway’s criticism is to be credible, we must also be willing to exercise self-criticism. A major problem here, which has already been mentioned, is to move forward in the criminal justice chain, so that the overall timing of criminal proceedings is reduced. And as it has also been stressed in this debate, I would like to highlight our proposal to call on the negative freedom of organisation. It is not yet guaranteed in Norwegian law. In our opinion, the processing of this message is an appropriate time to ensure people's right to avoid the need to be coerced. Mr. Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad said in the Question Time on 1 April 1998 in response to questions put by Mr. Fridtjof Frank Gundersen that the Department of Justice was working on a proposal for a law on human rights, that several international conventions would be proposed to be incorporated into Norwegian law, but that it was not quite clear how far these conventions would go when it came to protecting the negative freedom of organisation. Representatives of the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Centre continued in a debate in the Stortinget on 1 June 1999 that this right is guaranteed by, inter alia, The European Convention on Human Rights, made into Norwegian law. On 18 August 1999, the Oslo City Court ruled that that Convention does not contain any specific rules guaranteeing the negative freedom of organisation and that the legal views expressed by those representatives in the mass debate do not alter this. This view of law is further confirmed in the appeal before the Lawyers' Court. It is positive that a unanimous committee stresses that each citizen has the opportunity to leave a religious community and to exercise his or her faith to his or her own convictions. Let's hope that this too will be lifted up by the majority in terms of the right to release coercive organisation in organisations that are contrary to one's belief. Against this background, I would therefore like to formally promote our proposal to ask the Government to promote a bill that guarantees the negative freedom of organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e645	Sir. Danielsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e650	I'm just going to have to deal with one of the issues that the representative Danielsen mentions, the big challenge of working for better human rights in China, where there's an infinite amount left, but there's also a lot of work done over the last few years. Danielsen wants a clearer, more aggressive policy vis-à-vis China. Then the question becomes, What is the line of the Progress Party in relation to China? Do you only want to condemn through resolutions? Do you want an isolation, if you think it's possible to isolate one quarter of the Earth's population? Or what is the alternative? I assume that when the representative Danielsen condemns China as strongly as he does, it is the particular use of the death penalty he thinks of. We in the Labour Party and all of us here also condemn the use of the death penalty in all countries. And I assume that the representative Danielsen on behalf of the Progress Party can now proceed and condemn the use of the death penalty in all countries – including China, but also including all other countries that use the death penalty.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e658	I can assure the representative of Blankenborg that I agree, of course, that the use of the death penalty must be condemned in all countries. In my opinion, that also appeared from my post. In the case of China, I should mention a concrete example. It is a matter of supporting the resolution that has been promoted annually in the United Nations on criticism of China’s policy. I believe it is very important that the public, not least the opposition in China, who are being oppressed in China, understand that there is hope that there will be changes, that the serious human rights violations in China are really taken seriously at international level. That is why I believe that this criticism should be expressed clearly and publicly, so that it gives hope to the millions of people who suffer in China – not only the people who are subjected to the death penalty, but also those who are oppressed and refused to practice their own religion, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e665	Day Danielsen had a positive mention of the work that Norway is doing on human rights — a ‘great degree of cross-political consensus’, was his description of the position. However, in one area, the Progress Party has shown a slightly different attitude towards other parties in the Stortinget, namely in terms of the view of the death penalty. In a debate we had on human rights in 1998, said the Chief Speaker of the Progress Party, Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, among others. the following on this issue: ‘I must say I also respect those who believe that in given situations the death penalty may be in place. I respect their opinions and will not consider their opinion to be contrary to human rights, and in no way in such a way that it would require a reaction from the Norwegian Government to another democratic state." Danielsen just praised the United States for taking a bold attitude towards China in terms of human rights. The question that then comes up is: How daunting is Dag Danielsen in relation to the United States when it comes to such an important human rights issue as the fight against the death penalty? Is it the case that the Progress Party is still on the line marked by the main speaker of the Party in the February 1998 debate, or is it such that the Progress Party is now gradually beginning to adopt a more – let us say – humane position on this important human rights issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e675	I would like to begin by stressing that I am sure that the representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen is better suited than the undersigned to explain the shades in his view of the death penalty. However, when the representative Jacobsen made a concrete comment on the death penalty in the United States, it is clear from the communication what the Progress Party believes about that matter. But at the same time, we must stress that the United States, after all, is a state of law, and the treatment it receives with the death penalty in the United States is significantly different from that it gets in a number of despotic regimes where you don't have a sufficient legal state, in the same way that you don't have it in war. Another aspect of the death penalty is that the signatory and the Progress Party, for example: accepts the use of the death penalty in war. So there are constant balances in the matter of the death penalty. But the Progress Party as a party condemns the death penalty as a general political instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e682	It's an interesting setting, and it's largely dominated by consensus, but to the extent that you can say it's these, it's probably the Progress Party that most stands for them. Now it has to be said that some of us sitting in the hall here can also accept some of the rose that was directed to the current government for this work, and I naturally appreciate that the work is valued. But I have a desire to point out two-three of the theses that the Progress Party is behind in the setting. These include: a strange one who says that one will warn against the strong concentration on the human rights situation in Turkey, and that it leads to a low level of commitment to human rights issues in countries with which Norway is struggling to have a friendly relationship, namely Russia. I would like to know a little bit about the background to that comment from the representative Danielsen. Human rights criticism is not a cake, so when you give criticism in one direction, there is less criticism of other states. Nor is it the friendly contact that governs it. It is and shall be the nature and extent of the human rights violations that will govern Norwegian policies and how to criticise and address human rights violations with individual states. It is well known that Turkey is one of the few countries operating with a very special view of culture compared to minorities. They do not have a definition covering the Kurds as a minority at all and have therefore not signed central conventions in this area. There is no doubt that it provides the basis for a relatively strong criticism, and also the way this issue has been addressed by Turkish authorities. Then the representative tells Danielsen that one should be prepared to criticise the ‘great guys’ as well – with reference to China. I record that in the case of the Americans, the Progress Party will not fully support the criticism of the big boy in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e694	With regard to the relations of the Progress Party with the United States, I pointed out a nuance – and I hope that there was an understanding in this Chamber of the nuances of the political debate – not least the relationship between a rule of law and a despoty. I also stressed in my post that it is positive to criticise human rights violations in Turkey. But what's the point of our remark, and which was the point of my post, is that there must be a proportion in this -- that one also dares to criticize Russia, that one not only focuses attention on the negative that is going on in Turkey; there are also positive things going on there. But that's another discussion. You also have to be clear that you're taking a distance from what's going on in Russia. Although Russia is a neighbouring country that is particularly important in Europe, it is all the more important that we also point out, among other things. the genocide that is taking place in Chechnya, that we strongly distance ourselves from that in the forums in question where this can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e701	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e704	St.meld. No 21 is a milestone in Norwegian human rights policy. It draws up a comprehensive action plan on human rights, broken down by around 300 actions — national and international. As the Foreign Affairs Committee unanimously states, a Norwegian government is the first to present such a comprehensive communication on these issues, and it is also groundbreaking in relation to other Western countries. It is also positive that there is such broad political support for the main lines behind it. When the shopping message was submitted last year, it was the result of a long and demanding process. When the representative of the Workers' Party tried to present it as if it were the Workers' Party and the Right who had been specific drivers of that action plan, I should just like to say the following: It was the then State Councillor Hilde Frafjord Johnson who announced such an action plan in January 1998, while the comment of the Justice Committee, which the representative Nistad well thought about, came over a year later and was otherwise also more limited to education, information and research. But otherwise I agree with the case rapporteur that it is not a point to have a party political shift about who has been the proponents here. For the Christian People's Party – and also for me personally – the struggle for human dignity is a matter of heart. At the time of the establishment of the central government, we also created our own Council of State for Development and Human Rights. The coordinating responsibility for human rights work was given to this Council of State. In order to further strengthen the work, a separate human rights government committee was also set up. A first important step from the central government was to implement the Human Rights Act, incorporating three central human rights conventions into Norwegian law. The Act of 21 May 1999 was a breakthrough in Norwegian human rights policy. So the next important step we are dealing with today is the action plan. The follow-up to the Action Plan will require the work to be prioritised by the Government. Clear responsibilities in terms of driving responsibilities and coordination become necessary. Therefore, I would challenge the Government to clarify who will have the overall driving responsibility and responsibility for the necessary coordination and overview of the implementation of the actions in the action plan both nationally and internationally. The work on human rights has progressed in the last decade. In the wider sense, I believe that the collapse of communism as a world movement opened up a new historic opportunity to really make the whole spectrum of human rights a universal commitment. During the Cold War, social, economic and cultural rights had been set up against civil and political rights in a way that obscured the fact that some rights had been ignored. In the central government's work on human rights, we focused on three things. Firstly, all parts of human rights are important. Secondly, in order for Norway to have credibility internationally, we need to keep order in our own house. Thirdly, several central human rights conventions must be incorporated into Norwegian law – they must be given legal precedence. It is with great pleasure that I record that the Supreme Court in recent judgments has given the human rights a considerable impact. The Human Rights Act appears to have strengthened the impact of human rights in Norwegian law. The action plan on human rights contains, as mentioned above, about 300 concrete actions and has a good balance between international and national actions. On the national side, I would like to highlight the human rights measures related to: Racism treatment of national minorities asylum policy – in particular for minor custody prison religious and life freedom children's rights On the international side, I would like to highlight areas of action such as: dialogue with individual countries on the responsibilities of the business community and the body set up for dialogue on this in Norway, Compact human rights-based assistance will for stronger action, such as: against land like Burma the fight against the death penalty The representative Frafjord Johnson, who was responsible for the preparation of the paper, will elaborate the Christian People's Party's views on several of these questions. Let me briefly comment on some points. The fight against racism is an important part of human rights work. This also applies in Norway. Among other things, legal protection against multiple types of discrimination is too poor. The previous government set up a selection to propose a new law against ethnic discrimination, which would also incorporate the UN Convention against Racial Discrimination. Let me today, since a proposition was made in the Council of State on Friday, also express my joy that we can now realize a Holocaust centre in Quisling's former residence, Villa Grande. I would like to pay tribute to the current government that has brought this matter forward, a matter that we in the previous government started working on. This can be a center of information, research and information so that we don't get to forget this part of the story, and to learn for the future, so that nothing similar can repeat itself. The centre must have a broader perspective in the fight for human dignity and human rights – and for the position of minorities more generally. Norway’s international commitment to racism during the action plan period will be primarily reflected in the preparations for and participation in the European Conference against Racism this year and the World Conference next year. I would like the Government to report during the debate on Norway's positions and the status of today in relation to these two conferences. Norway has been criticised for certain aspects of the use of custody prisons, both in terms of size and conditions of custody. The central batches state in the preamble that a system of time limits for custody detention should be introduced in order to improve the situation. Among the international actions, I would like to stress the importance of bilateral human rights dialogues with some countries, as we have with, for example, the EU. China, Turkey and Cuba. Dialogues may be useful instruments, but this requires that we allocate resources to them and that alertness is appropriate to the conditions of the dialogue and the selection of participants. We must also avoid the dialogue being used to restrict the open criticism of human rights violations that are justified in these countries, for example. in dealing with matters of the UN Commission on Human Rights and of the UN General Assembly. Work against the death penalty is important. This applies not only to countries that are remote, but also to some of our allies. Personally, I addressed the death penalty issue directly with President Clinton when he was in Norway last year. I would encourage the Government to actively follow up this line of work against the death penalty. Norway has been a pioneer in promoting human rights in business activities abroad. The consultative body Compact has established useful contacts between authorities, organisations, human rights experts and business. In this respect, I would like to highlight the central government's proposal to set up a pilot project for human rights and business, focusing on the development of voluntary mechanisms for monitoring and reporting on how businesses respect human rights. We proposed that the pilot project be added to the Institute for Human Rights. As far as I am aware, nothing has happened specifically in this respect after the government change. The government now has to follow up on this and add the resources needed to achieve it. I would like to welcome the Minister for Foreign Affairs' feedback on this point. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased with the broad opening up of the Action Plan for Human Rights. Mostly there is a unanimous committee behind the vote, but in some areas we unfortunately have to take note of it, especially from the Progress Party. However, overall, the Storting provides broad support for the implementation of the Action Plan today. Today’s debate will therefore be standing, despite some differences, as a very cohesive starting point for an intensified implementation of our human rights obligations — national and international. In particular, it confers on the Government a responsibility to give this work strength and priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e790	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e793	I mentioned in my speech earlier today that I think it is positive that a unanimous committee says that one will ensure this with freedom to religious communities and ensure the right to exercise one's own religion to their own conviction. What I miss on the part of the Christian People's Party, and I would like Mr Bondevik's representative to respond to, is: Why is this not the case with the negative freedom of organisation? Why do you not actively seek action to ensure that you are not forced to be a member of organisations that have a different opinion from what you have? Why are we not going to do anything concrete about this political issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e800	The Christian People's Party and also the Centre parties, for the rest, clearly want to secure the so-called negative freedom of organisation. It is clear from what we have said and done in Stortinget before, and this is also evident from today's position on page 5. We have previously assumed that this was secured, among other things. through the European Convention on Human Rights, now made into Norwegian law. We're aware that a verdict raises doubts about this, and that's why we're prepared to get a clarification of it. We think that should happen by the government making a statement about this to the Storting. We think it's too easy to go straight on and adopt a bill on it, because this is about the relationship between a convention that is already incorporated into Norwegian law, and Norwegian law otherwise. We want a proper treatment of that. But there is no doubt that we also want to ensure the negative freedom of organisation. At the same time, we know that in the international context, ensuring professional rights and freedom of organisation is a major issue in many countries, and we must note that the Progress Party has not been involved in comments that underline this, such as: the centre batches have done. That might be a big wonder.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e807	In the treatment of a setting that has gathered very broad consensus, it almost seems that the previous government parties are looking with light and light for something to disagree about, and it is especially the custody prison that has been picked up by speeches after speeches. For example, Steensnæs talked about that we stand for a formalist line and are asking for more concrete proposals, as they do in the setting, for example. sleep, washing, food and clean clothes before being prepared for the prison meeting. They ask the Government to come back with proposals in these areas as soon as possible. Now, of course, patience is a good thing, and the Justice Committee will give its opinion on these issues on 14 December. I understand that you can be impatient, but given that it has taken the Foreign Affairs Committee and the case rapporteur about a year to present this position, it should perhaps be possible to ask for patience until 14 December. That's another thing that I might think is equally tangible. This is a special situation, because it is the announcement of the Bondevik government that we are dealing with today, and these statements that Norway has received, among other things. of Amnesty and the Torture Commission, is not a new date. So it's amazing that this communication does not mention these concrete proposals that the previous government parties are now notifying. I want to ask the representative, Mr Bondevik, the question: why in all the kingdoms of the world did not the government use the unique chance it had when it sent out the message to really put these things into practice – things that, to a considerable extent, also took place, for which we have been charged – under the leadership of Justice Ministers from his own party and later from the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e817	No, of course we are not looking with light and light for a disagreement. We are pleased, as I also said in my speech, with the cross-political integration of the broad lines behind the action plan. It's a force. After all, when we have found reason to address the conditions of detention, it is, as the representative Hernæs himself stated, because this is one of the few areas in which Norway has received criticism from international bodies for our practice, and where this is seen in a human rights perspective. Then I think it's going to be formalism from the Right and other parties here today to say that this is being discussed in the Justice Committee, so we don't mean anything about it now. With respect to reporting, this is a debate on human rights, a wide-ranging debate on both national and international human rights issues, and one must be able to have an opinion on these issues in the Foreign Affairs Committee and in the UK today because, as I said, this is one of the very few areas in which Norway has been criticised. Then we have to be able to give a response to that. It was addressed in the central government’s key message on human rights, and the central parties have today made in their comment on page 7 of the resolution, is to provide further details of a direction that was set out in the central government action plan. It would be excellent if other parties followed up. If it were to happen in a position of the Justice Committee, there is no crucial problem. We started a work by the central government at this point. We think there has been reason to now further detail this in this setting. If other parties want to follow through the position of the Justice Committee, it is excellent, but it surprises me a little that one has the formalistic approach to the fact that we do not want to think about this today, because this is in another committee. This is a position on human rights also nationally, and one must be able to have an opinion on it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e824	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e827	I allow myself to say, in relation to the previous speaker, that it seems to me that it is getting pretty late that they are now trying to attack a majority of the Foreign Affairs Committee so that today we are not going to think anything about what the Justice Committee is actually going to give up in a month's time. After all, it is not possible to get past the announcement made in the pen by the Bondevik Government, to a very small extent, that they deal with the same issues today that demand clear opinions from the Foreign Affairs Committee. I think you'll only be recognized by the previous government that a thorough investigation is required before you make decisions here in the Stortinget. It is, I guess, on the basis of thorough investigations that the views of the parties should be chiseled out. I think that's why they should stay too good to continue the kind of polemics that this really is. The relevance of discussing measures to safeguard human rights in Norway may seem far too much, because we live in a rule of law with solid democratic traditions. Fundamental freedoms and rights for citizens, both political, economic, social and cultural, are seen as naturalities. But we have to recognize that the protection of human rights is not so obvious that we don't sometimes have to measure ourselves according to the scale we set for other countries. It has been and is a condition to put your finger on in Norway too. The right will therefore praise the previous government that promoted this message, and we are also pleased with the follow-up that the current government will give to this message. Our multicultural society faces new challenges, including legal ones. Therefore, the Right meets a new law on ethnic discrimination. It's not going to happen that we, among other things. In the labour market, too many examples of high-skilled jobseekers with a migrant background have been seen in the past, which is likely to be due to discrimination. In dealing with the law on human rights, the right made proposals to incorporate UN Conventions on Child and Women into Norwegian law, and an overall committee considers that the incorporation of international conventions into Norwegian law must be prioritised. But it's not enough to focus on rule development. Today, we have a serious human rights and humane challenge in our asylum recipients. Nearly 600 minors come to Norway alone every year and seek asylum. The evening post and the Norwegian Red Cross have shed light on the situation of this very vulnerable group. In the right, it is quite unacceptable that children must remain in the asylum recipients for up to two years pending receipt by a municipality. This is a child who carries with him memories of war and an existence in great social distress. We must not contribute to their burden by almost forgetting them again in the receptions. Whether the decision is taken by the authorities, means that they are reunited with their parents or with other close caregivers in their home Member State, or they remain in Norway, priority must be given to the examination of children’s applications for asylum. The evening post has revealed that an unknown number of children and young people are physically abused, sexually abused, held as slaves in foreign homes or married by coercion after applying for protection from Norwegian authorities. Many are in a dependency relationship with people in the country they came from, who exploit them to conduct organized crime. The judicial system does not catch up with this because the children or young people do not dare to report their attackers. It shows the extremely vulnerable position of many minor asylum seekers. The government must therefore address this very serious and totally unacceptable situation as soon as possible. This requires immediate action, both in relation to reception and in relation to progress in the processing of applications and the deployment of asylum seekers in municipalities. In the past, both the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Municipal Council of the European Union have raised the question area. We would like to ask for clarification, perhaps just from the Minister of State, as to what measures need to be taken to speed up the integration of children into Norwegian society. It is regrettable that she is not here today, but we hope at least from the Right that we will get this clarification before the final reading of next year's budget. The so-called negative right of organisation, or the right to remain unorganised in the labour market, is not guaranteed by Norwegian law in the Right's opinion. That is why, together with the Progress Party of the Government, we are asking for the promotion of a legislative proposal to ensure this right. It is far from the first time the matter is dealt with in Stortinget. The fact that workers have had to commit to membership in certain employee organisations was first recorded by Røres Berte Rognerud at the end of the 1950s. Last time the Storting dealt with a matter of ensuring freedom of organisation by means of a legislative decision, it was rejected by the majority on the grounds that the negative freedom of organisation is guaranteed by the European Convention on Human Rights and thus by the Law on Human Rights. However, case-law has now shown that this is not a sustainable condition. Therefore, the need for a separate law on freedom of organisation in Norway is definitely present. In the context of the treatment of the Human Rights Act, the size of the population asked for an action plan for information, education and training to protect and promote human rights in Norway. The right is satisfied with the measures proposed by the Government. A national human rights institution is a proper measure, but it is important that such an institution should be given independence and distance from the authorities, so that the activities are not limited to disseminating information and knowledge, but actually become a place where knowledge is further developed and where Norwegian conditions can be put under scrutiny in the research projects. The use of custody has also been widely discussed in the debate so far today. It is quite correct, as has been pointed out, that the use of custody in Norway has been criticised by the Human Rights Monitoring Committees. The European Torture Committee shall have, inter alia: put the search light on the use of restrictions such as a letter-and-visit ban with the aim of increasing the so-called cooperation of the target. The use of police arrests has also been criticised. A joint committee has therefore stressed that Norwegian practice in this area should not be contrary to human rights. For its part, on a number of occasions, the right has proposed measures that could have helped to reduce the time course in criminal proceedings. Increased appropriations are one such measure. If we want to reduce the time in custody, we must help to advance the treatment of criminal cases. While the introduction of time limits for maintenance and for the use of restrictions may be a proper instrument, the Right will decide when the Judicial Committee will consider concrete legislative proposals and other measures with which the Government will come to the Grand Duchy in the near future. The head of the Danish Left, Uffe Ellemann-Jensen, commented on the Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs' visit to China in this way: ‘If the purpose of bringing human rights up is, of course, to get its own name in the newspapers, it is an advantage to stand alone. But if the goal is to achieve results, it is heavier to act with others." He points to a key element of a successful strategy to promote human rights across borders, namely cooperation. Both positive and negative instruments in international human rights work work work best if they can be coordinated with other actors. As stated in the message: ‘Norway will have very limited impact alone.’ We don't mean overfocusing on being a small country, we can get a lot, and we're going to be engaged. But we have limited resources, and we can't solve all human rights problems all over the world. It is therefore important to seek cooperation where cooperation is possible. A development in Europe since the Norwegian referendum on the EU in 1994 is that the EU has become a more important player in the international arena. The EU has identified the work on human rights as a central objective and also has instruments that make the European Union a very important and effective actor. It is enough to mention the Copenhagen criteria, with demands for democratic governance, for the rule of law and for respect for human rights, which must be fulfilled by the candidate countries. The latest EU Commission report on the status of the candidate countries shows that the requirements will also be met gradually. Now I see that the time is running out for me. I would say a lot more about how, among other things. Norway, if we had been a member, might have exerted even stronger influence on our closest neighbours, who also need some surveillance on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e879	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e882	In the globalised economy, international driving rules are important in order to ensure elementary human rights and prevent social dumping. However, only the Workers’ Party, SV and the Centre Parties believe that Norwegian companies engaged abroad should comply with international UN and ILO conventions on professional rights. So the right is not concerned with the right to professional organisation and the need for minimum standards. On this basis, it becomes strange to record the violent commitment that the Right has had in this debate to ensure the right not to be organised. Today, the main agreement between LO and NHO and other similar main agreements protects both the right to be organised and the right to be unorganised. I would also like to stress – as I also did in a previous reply – that the responsibility of the main organisations for determining wages through free, collective agreements has been the main contribution to the economic development we have had in Norway, to the stability of the Norwegian economy and therefore also to the well-being that we have been able to ensure, and not least the professional movement has contributed to it. My question to the representative Frost Sterri is – apart from why she does not want Norwegian companies to comply with ILO conventions – whether she is not afraid that the issue of legal protection of so-called negative organisational rights can help support employers who are negative to trade unions. And, if she gets time, if she can answer the following: is there not going to be any error in the proportions when this is the main question, and not the right to professional organisation and professional rights internationally, is what we should strive to work for when it comes to human rights issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e893	Marit Nybakk's line made me think of some very wise words that former Prime Minister Jan P. Syse once said here from the pulpit, that we should mean everything we say, but we don't have to say everything we mean. And I guess that's also the case with the Working Party in this setting. Apparently, they feel something about the negative freedom of organisation, although they do not comment on it at all in this setting. When I say it this way, it is to show that there is an overall committee that expresses itself on the responsibility that Norwegian companies also need to have in order to include human rights in their foreign strategy, and we say in a general note that it is important to ensure high standards of labour and production conditions and to take social responsibility in the countries in which they work. Then we end by pointing to the good work that companies and NHO have done in this area. In my view, it is often in the settings that there is also a balance between what is to be given decisive importance, and in the opinion of the Right, it is also important in human rights issues that the list should be as high for Norway as we want for other countries. Now it is not even certain that the system we have is based on the conditions in this country, namely broad cooperation between employers’ organisations and employees’ organisations, which is necessarily the right model for all other countries in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e900	There has been a small debate on where it is natural to express its political views on the issue of custody. I agree that maybe that shouldn't be the main question. However, I would like to remind myself that the Storing Message deals extensively with this issue and also says a lot about the work done by the previous government on these questions, but also links the further work, among other things. to a working group that has given up its work this summer. Therefore, it is natural that the Stortinget should both take decisions through the preparation of the Judicial Committee and have an overall view of human rights when it is being discussed today. That's not what my question is. I want to challenge the representative Frost Sterri as to how Norway can more strongly engage in the fight against the death penalty, not least in the United States. The right is, like an overall committee, with quite strong marks and remarks relating to the need to address the important democracy of the United States on these very issues. The right, together with the Progress Party, has chosen not to participate in a majority opinion where we ask the Government to take on some new instruments, including: provide support to Norwegian organisations active in the fight against the death penalty in the United States — that is the case. Nevertheless, there is a majority behind that gives the Government a background in the Storting in order to be able to engage even wider in the fight against the death penalty. However, my question goes to the Right Representative, whom we have seen having close contact with the Republican Party, who may now have the President of the United States, and as we know has a rather ugly past in these questions: Will the representative use his influence in the Right and his contact with his sister party – we must say – in the United States to influence the party with the death sentences expressed by the representative in this position?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e909	The representative of Sponheim is not giving up. He clearly wants to be a review theme in this debate, despite the fact that he also knows that what we are doing now is to discuss it; it is to a very small extent that decisions are taken in dealing with such messages. When it is then that another committee in parallel with us is dealing with these questions, based on investigations and proposals both from the Storting itself and from the Government, it is really a little premature for us in this debate to start to take the lead from the sideline. Although conservation issues as such will, of course, be heard in a human rights debate, it will be a little premature for us to do so now that we know that the Justice Committee is in the process of doing this work. I reiterate that there must be a clear reason why the Left wants to use this debate to address a number of issues related to this matter today, namely that they themselves are not represented in the Justice Committee. I would rather recommend the representative Sponheim to use his commitment to participate in the debate on that matter when the Judicial Committee gave its opinion on 14 December. But enough about it. So to the question of the death penalty. I was told that meaning, among other things. The EU now has a lot to do with new candidate countries, for there is a lot to be done in Europe, but also in the United States. It is clear that as an important, close ally and partner, we need to exert pressure to change their vision in the Länder where this is practised. And I can assure Sponheim that most recently when party leader Jan Petersen visited the United States in connection with the presidential election campaign, he expressed his view of precisely these questions to his Republican sister party traps.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e916	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e919	In the declaration of the Adultåsen, the central parties announced that they would upgrade the fight for human rights as an important political field of action. A concrete expression of this was that the Minister of Assistance post was converted into a State Council post for development and human rights.In April 1999, the Stortinget adopted the then government’s proposal for human rights law, which was sanctioned in May of that year. In the statement by the Minister for Development and Human Rights, on 22 January 1998, the Stortinget announced to the Government that the central government would draw up an action plan for human rights work. This is the plan Stortinget has for treatment today. The attitude of the Foreign Affairs Committee shows that there is largely broad political support for Norwegian human rights efforts. However, some exceptions to this political consensus are found in the vote. For example, the Progress Party and the Right are: not include a note stating that it expects Norwegian companies engaged abroad to comply with the International UN and ILO Conventions on Human Rights and Professional Rights with which Norway is affiliated. Nor do the Progress Party and the Right wish to join an opinion stating that Norwegian enterprises should contribute to raising the laws and standards of host countries in these areas instead of applying for derogations. It is important to establish that human rights are part of international law. The 1948 UN Declaration of Human Rights is today considered a practice of international law. It implies that countries will be internationally obliged to treat their citizens in accordance with the fundamental principles of human rights to varying degrees. Nevertheless, many countries strongly oppose interference in so-called internal affairs. However, after the 1993 World Conference on this theme in Vienna, it is now more acceptable that human rights are a legitimate theme in relations between countries. However, it may still be economically and politically burdensome to demand that human rights be respected in other countries. These are the burdens we must be willing to take if we believe that our attitude can serve the fight for human rights in the country in question. As already mentioned, a majority of the Committee believes that the companies involved abroad must also take their share of the responsibility for the achievement of the promotion of such rights. In its statement, the Committee highlighted four important elements in the country’s obligations to respect citizens’ rights. I want to focus on the point that concerns the obligation of states not to apply the death penalty. Work on torture and the death penalty must be central to our work on human rights. Norway has previously ratified an additional protocol to the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of the Death Penalty and a corresponding protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights. This work must be continued. Death penalty is an unworthy violation of human dignity. In my opinion, the countries that practise the death penalty violate one of the most fundamental human rights. The question of the death penalty is primarily about the right to life. And as the then head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Haakon Blankenborg, said in the debate on human rights in February 1998: The debate on the death penalty is not a debate on punishment or acquittal. ‘It’s a discussion about taking a life or not.’ Norway must commit itself to the death penalty in all countries that practice this. The fight against the death penalty has produced results. The Council of Europe has worked intently against the new states that arose after the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Norway must continue to support this work. We must also support the demand to impose a ban on the death penalty in our NATO ally Turkey. The EU must be commended for the Union's clear human rights requirements in the context of the enlargement process. At the Nice Summit later this year, the EU will consider proposals for a Charter of Fundamental Human Rights. This charter will, after all the sunmarks, contain a clear ban on the death penalty. Killing a man who is neutralized and who represents no danger to society is in itself an inhuman and uncivilized act. The death penalty practice in the United States gives rise to strong reactions. According to Amnesty International's reports, the United States has executed people who committed the crimes when they were 16-17 years old. The United States claims that its national legislation should go ahead of the UN Convention’s ban on the execution of persons under 18 years of age. It doesn't make it any better that one has examples that the world's only remaining superpower executes mentally retarded. In the United Nations and in bilateral contacts with the United States, Norway must state clearly what the Stortinget believes about the country's practice of the death penalty. The Committee says that the United States must be encouraged, as a minimum, to sign conventions prohibiting the death penalty for minors and psychiatric patients. Death penalty, as stated, is an unworthy violation of human dignity. That the United States, which in many other contexts sees itself as a model for other countries, maintains an inhuman death penalty practice, today represents perhaps the greatest challenge in the fight against the death penalty. I record that the Progress Party and the Right do not want the Government to provide support to Norwegian organisations that actively participate in the work against the death penalty in the United States. Returning to the debate in February 1998, where the death penalty was a central theme, one will see that in the Stortinget there is a slightly greater difference in principle in the view of the death penalty than the present situation might suggest. The Chief Speaker of the Advance Party, Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, said at the time: ‘I must say I also respect those who believe that in given situations the death penalty may be in place. I respect their opinions and will not consider their opinion to be contrary to human rights, and in no way in such a way that it would require a reaction from the Norwegian Government to another democratic state." I don't know if Gundersen still stands by this attitude and this prudence line towards the United States. It is important to create a popular commitment to the struggle for human rights. There are a number of organisations in Norway that carry out significant work on this theme, both nationally and internationally. The Committee stresses the importance of giving relevant organisations the opportunity to acquire and disseminate knowledge and attitudes regarding human rights. Among the meeting places the Committee believes should be supported is the newly established Falstad Centre at Levanger, where it has been working for many years to create a national centre for documentation and training, inter alia. humanitarian international law and human rights. The Falstad Centre has established a comprehensive network, which also includes international institutions dealing with similar issues, to build up enhanced competences in the field of humanitarian and human rights. The government should see it as a task to support such meeting places, which are established on the basis of idealism and the desire to make human rights more pervasive, national and international. The role of Norway in the new defence and security cooperation, such as: include humanitarian peace operations, also requires training of personnel in humanitarian international law and human rights. In this context, it should be possible to facilitate cooperation between the authorities and the institutions which have built up competences in precisely those areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e957	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e960	I would like to refer to the committee position, where it is clearly stated that there is consensus on the view of the death penalty – also the Progress Party believes it is important for Norway to work against the death penalty in general. The representative Jacobsen came to the representative Gundersen's point of view. I have already answered that, but I will allow myself to ask the representative Jakobsen a question: does the representative Jakobsen see that there is, after all, a difference in the death penalty that has been imposed after a previous trial in a state of law, versus a death penalty that is completely arbitrary? Does the representative Jamessen agree that there is a nuance difference here? So to the Progress Party's position on industry's ethical standards in promoting human rights in developing countries. We have made several comments that underline the need and importance of this. We say, among other things: ‘Norwegian enterprises should include human rights in their foreign strategy, ensure higher standards of employment and production conditions, and take social responsibility in the countries in which they work’. Furthermore, we ask ‘The Government develops voluntary reporting, verification and monitoring systems for companies’ respect for human rights and will support the establishment of a pilot project to contribute to this.’ So we're involved in a series of measures, and we're very clear about this. I hope Jacobsen will read our remarks in the setting and come to a slightly different conclusion than the one he expressed in his post. I hope that I personally will not be harmed to present the programme or positions of the Centre Party in the manner that the representative Jakobsen did when it came to the position of the Advance Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e973	The starting point for the question that Dag Danielsen raised was my reference to the debate in February 1998, where, in my opinion – and one can also read in Stortingstidende – quite wide differences emerged in the view of this important human rights issue, greater than one can get the impression of today. When Dag Danielsen today says that there is consensus in the committee on the view of the death penalty, I sincerely hope that it is a reality. And when this on the part of the Progress Party is so strongly underlined by the Party spokesman in this debate, I choose to take it as an expression that there has been a development in the Progress Party's view of the death penalty since this case was discussed in February 1998. Then Danielsen asks a question that I may think is a little unnecessary, namely whether I am able to see any difference in the death penalty that is dismissed on the basis of a trial, in relation to killing people arbitrarily, without a trial. It's clear that there's not just a nuance difference, there's a big difference between punishments that have a background in legal proceedings, and punishments that happen arbitrarily. With regard to human rights in developing countries, there is a clear Norwegian position that a Norwegian aid policy should also focus on the country's respect for human rights. It is an important issue, and I would particularly like to remind you that the former Minister of Development and Human Rights from the Central Government stressed it very strongly in many contexts when the theme was up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e984	I will be allowed to congratulate the representative Johan J. Jakobsen. He has also managed to find a very small case where he might disagree with the Right. Earlier today, Kjell Magne Bondevik was a little dissatisfied with the expression to look with light and light. I believe, however, that it was a relatively comprehensive expression. It is about the attitude of business towards human rights. As Danielsen's representative was given the time to quote quite broadly, there is essentially consensus in the committee on this issue. But then it's this unfortunate situation for some politicians that they have to run away from business on absolutely every occasion and at the last sentence. Is it not possible to think of it as positive, that it is worth a commendable mention that business organisations themselves have set in motion a process that meets the wishes of the Stortinge in these areas? A joint committee says, ‘The Committee welcomes the work carried out by enterprises and the NHO in this area.’ In other words, there is a process going on, so why in all the kingdoms of the world must the crippling rightness be so pronounced that it is not possible to let any processes go without having to interfere in every little thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e996	I am a little surprised at the angle that the representative Bjørn Hernæs now had, because he initially asked a question as to why we could not highlight our position on business more positively, and then he kindly quoted from the section of the position that just expresses the same positive attitude that NHO and Norwegian companies have been working on this concrete project for a long time. But I can turn to the question since Bjørn Hernæs is so polemic about criticising business, because it is quite surprising that the Progress Party and the Right cannot be involved in a comment in the vote where the Committee says, of course, that: ‘Norwegian enterprises engaged abroad are expected to comply with the International UN and ILO Conventions on Human Rights and Professional Rights to which Norway is affiliated’. I might as well ask, why on earth would the Right reserve itself by saying that this is a remark, a point of view that they don't want to be in? That's actually the answer to the question that Bjørn Hernæs is asking. I can't see that the majority of the committee has taken an untimely and aggressive approach to business on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1011	I listened with great interest to Jacobsen's contributions, not least what he said about the death penalty that I thought was very good, and I think I can join most of what was said. That's why I was a little surprised when I heard Jacobsen's reply to the representative, Dag Danielsen, because the right to life in my opinion is a fundamental human right. The death penalty is to violate this right, that is. depriving a human right to life. In my opinion, we must fight and take a fundamental distance from the death penalty, no matter what country and under what kind of regime it is practiced. So that means we can't measure the view of the death penalty based on a country's rule and case law. My question is then: Does not the question of the difference between democracies and dictatorships – that is, the difference between a proper trial and the exercise of the right to trial before the courts – concern other human rights, and not the question of the right to life? And isn't it that the death penalty is the death penalty no matter what kind of regime or what kind of case law underlying it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1020	I record that Marit Nybakk and I have completely coincident views on the fundamental issue of the death penalty. I don't want to grade this in any way, because this is ultimately about the right to life. I have expressed strongly that, in my opinion, the death penalty is a violation of human dignity. But I still want to nuance it in terms of the relationship to justice and case law in the country in question. I believe that, after all, there is a difference between the judges who are dismissed on the basis of a trial based on the laws of the country, in relation to the randomness that we see in some countries. If we go back in our own history – to illustrate it more specifically – Norway has also practiced the death penalty, most recently after the last war. We can blame each other and we can blame those who stood for this many years ago, but after all, there was a difference between this practice and that in many other countries, where there were regular lightning strikes without any previous trial. It was, after all, a more critical and more serious violation of human rights than the practice of the death penalty based on the laws of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1030	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1033	Compared to many other countries, human rights are strong in Norway, but self-satisfaction is not a good starting point in this area. We must always be on guard against violations of human rights and work to realise them better. Taking into account our close history, there have been many serious violations of human rights in Norway. I am thinking in particular of the treatment of minorities as samers and taters. Work on human rights in Norway needs to focus on, inter alia: to protect today's vulnerable groups. More research is needed to provide us with knowledge of who is currently the most vulnerable to rights violations. The Norwegian Research Council in its State Report ‘Research on Human Rights in Norway’ states that it is central to discovering ‘tatterers of the day’. The Research Council says: ‘Imaginatively, it may be said that ‘weeds’ are the human rights that call for particular attention in our society. It's rare for us to interfere with other people. [[the pretty flowers]] We take care of ourselves." In the opinion of SV, a critical searchlight must be directed towards the treatment of, among others. poor, children, sick, psychiatric patients and drug users. The human rights action plan contains many measures to strengthen the protection of human rights. Obviously, the plan is followed up by practical action and necessary appropriations. The establishment of a national human rights institution in Norway, added to the Institute for Human Rights, is one important measure. It is critical that the Government has not invested sufficient resources in the next year's budget to be able to play that role fully. This must be corrected by Stortinget. Providing a general knowledge of human rights is important. It is positive that the action plan focuses on education and information on human rights. In many countries, the lack of human rights skills is a prerequisite for repression. A matter raised by the majority of the Committee is whether the Stortinget can better control the management of human rights. Everyone outside the Advance Party wants to raise this question. I think it might surprise some of the electorate of the Advance Party if they see that it is their party that has the most unconditional trust in government. Children need special protection of their rights. Children are vulnerable to abuse both from their immediate and from the authorities. Their best is not always taken care of in adult conflicts. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child confers autonomous rights on children; they shall not be regarded as merely members of the family or as property of their parents. It is important that this view is better reflected in our own legislation. The majority of the Committee considers that this should be done by transposing the Children’s Convention into Norwegian law. SV believes that transposition would be positive, but that incorporation would be even better. Inclusion is also recommended by the United Nations Committee on Children’s Rights in their latest report to Norway. With the Human Rights Act, three of the major human rights conventions were legislated. Given that it is one of the widest human rights conventions, SV believes that it is natural to treat the Children’s Convention in the same way. It may be said that the same considerations will be taken into account when transposing the Children's Convention into Norwegian law, but there is a risk of changing the original content by translating and rewriting the Convention into Norwegian law. There may still be situations where there is a conflict between the Convention and the Norwegian provisions in this area. The children who come as refugees alone are among the most difficult children in Norway. For them, the Children's Convention is of great importance because it states that all children have the same fundamental rights. The majority of the Committee underlines the importance of improving the situation of these children. Norway must be careful to sweep its own human rights door. A relationship that we need to clean up concerns the use of custody. Here Norway has received criticism from the torture committees of the United Nations and the Council of Europe. SV believes that time limits should be introduced for custody imprisonment as well as time limits for isolation by letter and visitation bans. SV assumes that the Judicial Committee will promote measures to address the problems in this area in the context of the Ot treatment. pp. No 81 for 1999-2000. Expectations in this area have also increased during the day, as, among other things, The Right Party and the Labour Party have promised to come back with concrete proposals in this area. Refugee policy is all too often about how we can keep our borders as close as possible. From an international human rights perspective, we should consider how Norway can actively provide protection to persecuted human rights activists through the use of emergency visas or diplomatic asylum. This has been used, for example: in Colombia, but one should look at the extent to which we can have a more active policy also in relation to human rights activists in other countries. It is positive that businesses recognise more than before that they have a social responsibility even when they establish themselves in other countries. Some investments go to countries where the government is systematically violating human rights and where there is very poor protection of professional rights. Globalisation and new technologies have made it more difficult for those who should be interested in it to cover up problematic issues. NorWatch has also done an important job of making bad behaviour visible among Norwegian companies. In St. Report. paragraph 21 proposes the establishment of a pilot project for the reporting, monitoring and verification of industrial respect for human rights. SV wants the Stortinget to make a more specific decision. We therefore promote proposals to develop ethical guidelines for Norwegian enterprises abroad and a set of instruments to promote their follow-up. Professional rights have not been specifically addressed in St. gemeld. No 21st Last@item: I'm sorry. The basic professional rights are important for the realization of human rights. It is appropriate to assess whether the professional rights are properly respected in Norwegian law. In the view of the SV, our allies deserve special attention for their practice of human rights. Two countries point out: the United States and Turkey. In its 2000 report, Amnesty reports serious cases of torture in Turkish prisons and a number of prisoners have died as a result of torture. Kurds are still oppressed socially and culturally in Turkey. Violations of freedom of expression occur to a large extent. SV believes that Norway should not be familiar with supplying arms to countries guilty of serious human rights violations. On the contrary, refusing to sell weapons is an appropriate method of sanctions. This is also recommended by Norwegian human rights organisations. SV is pleased that the Committee supports a strong criticism of the use of the death penalty by the United States. 1999 was a record year of 98 executions in the United States. The United States is one of six countries in the world that executes people convicted of crimes committed as children, that is. before reaching 18 years of age. It is important that Norway deals with different ways of influencing and using different channels. It is also important that one can reach the American opinion with information on how Norway and most other European countries view the death penalty. Just as we don't have to look through the human rights violations of our allies, we don't have to do it to neighbors either. Russia is guilty of serious human rights violations in Chechnya. There is evidence of widespread abuse against the civilian population. The fact that there should be a legitimate fight against terrorists in Chechnya is a very little acceptable and a little credible explanation. A number of countries receiving Norwegian aid systematically violate human rights. The turn towards more rights-based assistance is therefore important. In many countries receiving Norwegian aid, authorities could do much more for the population with greater respect for human rights. Norwegian assistance must not become a sleeping cushion for such authorities, so the right perspective is so important. In this context, it is important to stress that social and economic human rights must be equated with civil and political rights. Support for civil society and organisations to strengthen rights is strategically important in countries that do not fulfil human rights. Finally, I would like to address the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1083	The representative has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1086	Work to promote human rights in Norway as well as internationally is a very important part of the government’s policy. In presenting the action plan, Norway has followed up the decision of the 1993 UN Human Rights Conference in Vienna, which invited all countries to draw up national human rights action plans. Our national and international efforts must go hand in hand, so that Norwegian human rights policy is as comprehensive as possible. The action plan will make a concrete contribution to ensuring the best possible implementation of human rights also internationally. In order to further strengthen the position of human rights in Norway, the Government, following a thorough investigation, will propose the incorporation into Norwegian law of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, the UN Convention on Women and the UN Conventions on Torture and Racial Discrimination. Voluntary organisations play an important role in promoting respect for human rights. The government welcomes the dialogue with these organisations during the preparation of the action plan and wishes to continue this cooperation also during the implementation of the plan. The Government attaches great importance to the positive reception of the human rights action plan in the Foreign Affairs Committee. The Committee's main support for the action plan gives the plan a great deal of weight. With regard to national measures, I would point out that the Foreign Affairs Committee is largely satisfied with the actions undertaken and planned to strengthen research, information, education and training on human rights. The Committee also supports the idea of establishing a national institution for human rights and refers to the addition of this institution to the current Institute for Human Rights in Oslo. The Government will continue to work on organisational and financial conditions around this Institute with a view to establishing a national human rights institution in 2001. Furthermore, it is gratifying that the Committee on Foreign Affairs supports the efforts to strengthen the international rules for indigenous peoples. It is also very gratifying that the majority of the Committee agrees with the proposal to set up a centre of excellence for the rights of indigenous peoples in Norway. As an indigenous people, they stand together in a special position here to land. Several measures will continue to be undertaken by the Government to transfer powers from the Ministries to the Sameting. The Government will further present a major communication on national minorities, detailing the principles and objectives that should be the starting point for work in this important field. Norway must continue to be in the first place in the fight against racism. The UN has decided to hold a World Conference on Racism next year. A committee has already been set up to prepare for our participation in this conference. Within this Committee, the departments, institutions and non-governmental organisations concerned are well represented. The second conference requested by the representative Bondevik was held in October this year with active Norwegian participation. In order to strengthen human rights internationally, it is important that Norway supports the work of international organisations, such as the United Nations, the Council of Europe and the OSCE. We must also support efforts to maximise the impact of binding international human rights conventions. It is particularly important to contribute to the effectiveness of the activities of the monitoring mechanisms established under some of the Conventions. In international work, Norway places a decisive emphasis on the fight against capital punishment and torture. This is reflected, for example: in our work in the UN and other multilateral organisations. We have also addressed the use of the death penalty in bilateral talks with a number of other states, including the United States. However, experience has shown that it is necessary to combine a firm principle approach with a nuanced choice of instruments. Another strategy could easily lead to a weakening of international work against the death penalty. Norway also supports efforts to strengthen international criminal law. We have ratified the Rome Statutes on the establishment of the International Criminal Court. This Court of Justice shall, inter alia: have jurisdiction in genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. The Government is pleased that the majority of the Foreign Affairs Committee supports a turn towards the rights-focusing of assistance. By taking such a starting point, assistance can contribute more to the promotion of human rights. In addition, attention will be paid to human rights in the design of aid policy initiatives and programmes. For the Government, it is important that the increased involvement of business abroad is accompanied by an increased awareness of human rights. The Government is therefore committed to establishing a pilot project for the development of new reporting, monitoring and verification mechanisms for the role of business in relation to human rights. This will focus on voluntary schemes. The pilot project will need to be carried out in close cooperation with industry and business organisations. In addition, the Government aims to continue the work of the human rights consultative body and Norwegian economic engagement abroad – Compact – which is an important forum for dialogue on human rights issues with representatives of business. The human rights action plan contains a large number of actions, both nationally and internationally. It will therefore have to be the responsibility of each expert council to implement the plan in the respective areas of responsibility. As Minister of Foreign Affairs, I would like to have a special responsibility for following up the international part of the action plan. At the same time, I want to take responsibility for reporting on the national follow-up to the plan. I have noticed that the debate has commented on the Government's way of organising this work. We have chosen not to have our own Minister of Human Rights, but have invested the area under the Minister of Foreign Affairs. We believe it gives weight to the work that we are going to do and that we consider to be a very important part of foreign policy. This is what we have already done in practice, for example. in the work that we did in Yugoslavia, and in what we are now continuing in the Middle East. We will carry on with weight all that is stated in the action plan, which is particularly underlined by the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1125	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1128	It is gratifying that there is a broad consensus on the broad lines of our human rights work, both nationally and internationally. But it takes a very active follow-up to realize all of these approximately. 300 measures, and as far as follow-up is concerned, it is clear that the individual government itself has the sovereign right to organise this as it wishes, so I will not go into that on the Stortinget side. I take note that the Government has chosen to organise this differently from the previous government in terms of state authority. Following up 300 measures, many of which are also national, is a serious problem. It does not come about by itself, there is a need for coordination and enforcement, and this will have budgetary implications. I understand what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said now, so that, in addition to – of course, since he is assigned as the Council of State – to be responsible in the foreign policy area for human rights work by the Norwegian side, he will also have a coordination responsibility in relation to the reporting by the Councils of State on the national follow-up to the plan. It'll be a demanding task, and I just want to stress the importance of it being active. With regard to the international conferences on racism – it was the European Conference held in October this year, and next year it will be a world conference – it could be interesting, if not on another occasion, to hear from the Government both about the experience of the European Conference and about the preparations for the Great World Conference next year. Finally, I would like to hear whether the Minister of Foreign Affairs can respond to what has been done – or perhaps not so far – after the change of government in the pilot project that the Central Government wanted to launch for human rights and business, focusing on the development of voluntary mechanisms for monitoring and reporting on how businesses respect human rights, which we wanted to add to the Institute of Human Rights. Can anything be reported about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1137	I have nothing more to say about driving and coordination responsibilities. We are aware that it is a very great work, but after all, the most important thing here is the political pressure to be made, and the initiatives to be taken, and we feel that we are best protected in the way we have organized it. As far as the World Conference is concerned, I understood that Bondevik in his first post asked about two conferences, one was the European, which has already been held, and the other was the World Conference, which is to be held next year. There we have already set up a preparatory committee. At the conference that was held in October, we had an active interaction among others. with the voluntary organisations, and we will continue to do so in front of the World Conference, which we consider to be a very important conference in order to focus on racism and racial discrimination. We have also taken the initiative, in the party from which the Government is founded, that the various political parties sign a charter under which they undertake to work against racism and racial discrimination. Many European parties have signed – the great Christian-democratic parties in Europe have done so, the Conservative Party in the United Kingdom has done so – and this Charter also commits itself not to enter into binding cooperation with parties that whip up racism in their countries. We consider that to be a very important part of the work being done internationally now. With regard to the pilot project, I can only refer to what I said in the post. We will follow up the initiative that has been taken in a dialogue with the business community, and when we get this institute in place, we will of course evaluate the Christian People's Party's view on how this can be organized.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1146	The work against the death penalty has been identified as one of the Government's spheres of activity in the international human rights work, which the Minister of Foreign Affairs also stressed in his speech. Right-wing agree with this priority, and we believe that the use of the death penalty must be charged both bilaterally and multilaterally, also to countries in the OECD area and to the United States. In this regard, I have two questions for the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that a natural government strategy towards a close ally and partner like the United States is paying Norwegian NGOs to work against the death penalty in the United States, as a majority that includes his own party calls for? And is there so little authority contact with the United States that we cannot, in regular bilateral and multilateral contacts, assert our views to American authorities at several levels?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1153	Of course, bilateral contacts between the United States and Norway are very good. This applies not only at authority level but also at batch level. It is here in the debate that the Right has good contacts with the Republican Party and has raised this issue with them, and I assume that other political parties are dealing with this in contacts with political forces in the United States. It's very joyful. We also address this in bilateral contacts at authority level, but it cannot replace or justify the fact that Norwegian non-governmental organisations should not also be allowed to work against the death penalty in the United States. I assume that you stand firm in what is the majority's view, that the death penalty is to be combated, and that there is no one way to work on the basis of one country and a completely different way of working on the basis of other countries on this issue. I would appreciate working towards the death penalty in all countries, and that non-governmental organisations, authorities and political parties can work towards it, no matter what country it is. So I want to say that I support the majority voting that exists from the Foreign Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1160	I'm hardly the only one who was shocked by the behaviour of Social Minister Guri Ingebrichtsen in TV 2's "The State of the Kingdom" last Wednesday. Instead of making a value settlement with its past as a supporter of Pol Pot's regime of terror in Cambodia, which cost over 1.7 million Cambodians lives, we saw a council of states apologizing and excusing. Not in one word did she regret the failure of her own party and that of its ACP party against human dignity and human rights. [[m-l]] She chooses to hide behind sayings like'repent is not my style', 'afternoon is little apart', 'I was impressed, I thought they were so good at speaking for themselves', 'a child of my time, and there was no unusual thing to be in the ACP. [[m-l]] I have the greatest respect for the Secretary of State's personal commitment to these issues. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Is not his advice to the member of the Government that it should perhaps be possible to settle with the positions she has had at one time? And if there is no basis for that today, does not the Government and the Norwegian Labour Party have a significant problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1167	I didn't see that TV show, so I can't comment exactly on the content of it. But in general, I would say that there are many who are today important social actors in the press, politics and other areas, including business, who, in my opinion, judged not only history, but also what was going on in the present, in a totally crazy way. When the demonstration trains went here with pictures of Stalin and Lenin – I remember well – I was very shaken myself and wondered how this could happen, when one knew about what had actually happened during Stalin, when one knew about what had happened in Cambodia under Pol Pot. I was myself shaken over it, and I have written in a book about how this could happen at all. That's my comment on it. You can't put a line on this story, you shouldn't. At least I do not intend to contribute to that. But there were a lot of people in the press, politics and business, people who have positions in a broad community today, who unfortunately were unable to see what history had been, and what the contemporary had actually brought, at the time it was happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1174	I would like to address a special topic, namely Norwegian policy towards Turkey. When the Turkish Prime Minister was in Norway in the spring, he received praise from the Norwegian Government for the development of Turkey. The government's signals were that Turkey is on the right track. It is true that simple positive things have happened, but all the human rights violations that are still happening should indicate that Norway is promoting criticism and not just praise, and that we are maintaining a pressure by not exporting arms to Turkey. I recall that Turkish language is still banned in the public context of Turkey. Rough torture is documented. For example, the former head of the Turkish State Convention on Human Rights, Sema Piskinsut, revealed: soundproof torture cells with electrical torture equipment in Turkey. Turkish human rights organisations have documented 600 cases of torture in the last year; nine died. Most of the victims were Kurds. It's also only three months since Turkey bombed the village of Khnera in Northern Iraq and killed 40 innocent people. With praise from the Norwegian government, with access to arms exports from Norway, I would like to ask Jagland how the Government will maintain a pressure on and promote criticism of Turkey. I would also like to hear how the Government is working to get Turkey to recognise that Kurdish issues are a human rights issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1185	I would like to make it clear that when it was said from the Prime Minister during Bülent Ecevit's visit to this country that Turkey is on the right track, it does not mean that we are satisfied with Turkey, but we have taken some steps in the right direction. We will continue to put pressure on and have dialogue with Turkey on human rights issues, especially with regard to the treatment of the Kurds. Attempts to define the Kurds as a people with rights, including: right to language and culture, we've always distanced ourselves from, and we're constantly having a dialogue with Turkey about it. As regards the export of weapons, we do not sell weapons to Turkey that can be used in the internal conflict in Turkey. But Turkey is part of NATO, so it's about the weapons that relate to NATO's common defence. There is nothing else to talk about when it comes to arms exports to Turkey.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1194	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1197	I have just come from Stockholm and their MR-Days, where work on the Swedish National Action Plan on Human Rights was the focus. 600 participants were united and very interested in the work of the Norwegian action plan. It was also the Norwegian experience that helped the Swedish Government to ask the Swedish Government to draw up a Swedish action plan on human rights, in addition, of course, to take seriously the call made by the Vienna Conference in 1993, namely that all UN Member States should draw up national action plans on human rights. Norway was one of the first Western countries to launch its plan. The development following the submission of the plan has made it clear how important it is to ensure that it is followed up. New findings and new reports in several areas have shown that we have major human rights challenges in Norway. These have to be taken seriously. Since the presentation of the action plan, Centres against ethnic discrimination have produced new reports showing relatively wide discrimination based on skin colour and ethnicity in Norway. This is one of our greatest domestic human rights challenges. This makes the work of a new law against ethnic discrimination and the transposition of the Convention on Racial Discrimination even more justified. Since the presentation, we have also received more and more revelations that people with high education, doctors and civil engineers have to take laundry jobs – not just because foreigners have more difficulties in the labour market than the Nordics, no, they are not getting their education because Norwegian educational institutions will not approve the education from foreign universities and colleges. Education approved by Harvard University in the United States is not approved by the University of Oslo. This is unacceptable, and it is also one of the measures in the action plan to try to correct this. Since the presentation of the action plan, the problems associated with minor asylum seekers and children’s rights have only increased in scope and strength. And the situation is approaching the unacceptable. Because here it says about central human rights. In particular, the focus is on a reading and on poor reception apparatus. The duration of treatment for asylum matters as well as family reunification matters is beginning to break down dimensions that are based on our credibility. And the focus is on the legal certainty of asylum seekers in questions of personal presence in the context of the appeal mechanism. This definitely has to do with human rights. Still, coercive use in psychiatry and care services represents a human rights problem for Norway. The question of detection is an ever-increasing point from the monitoring of Norway by the international fora. And I therefore look forward with great anticipation to the Justice Committee's consideration of this matter after the debate that has taken place in the United Kingdom today, and I expect that we will then see a significant change in the positions of individual parties and a majority to do something about the unacceptable situation. Nevertheless, many national minorities are also allowed to vote in Norway, not because of deliberate discriminatory policies, but primarily because they do not have a defined and established policy in this area. Still, these environments are waiting for the big message to clearly anchor Norwegian policy in our human rights obligations. With the ratification of the Framework Convention, the Government will now have to lift this field by providing the notified notification. And I would like answers from the Council of State on when it comes. The test of this action plan is not included in the document and the reading today. The test will be in the follow-up, and then our ability, and the ability of the Government, to comply with the obligations and not least to follow up. I expect the annual report to be clearly reported on all elements of the action plan and to be systematically set up to report on the follow-up to the measures and to allow the Storing to measure the Government’s practice. Here, too, a national human rights institution will become an important watchdog. Such a national institution, an independent one, is going to be a vigilant that represents a kind of gnawing in relation to us all, telling us that here is not everything right, here it is about tightening up and trying to correct the conditions that hurt. This applies to the Government, and it applies to the Storting. But in the international field, the challenges may be greater. And there's my challenge to the Government that it is now making sure that it alerted the pilot project – as Jagland said he supported – for monitoring, reporting and verification of the respect of business for human rights is established and gets the adequate resources – not in a year, not in two years, but now. Secondly, I hope that the dialogue does not lead to an international human rights policy that is toothless, characterized by slippers rather than offensive action on behalf of human rights and human dignity, whether it is China, Turkey or Cuba, which are our dialogue partners, or also the United States and Russia, which have been at the heart of this debate. The focus is not on toothlessness and slippers. It must be to be bold advocates on behalf of human dignity and human rights, and I hope we have helped, through the treatment of the Action Plan by the Storting, to make the Government run more offensively than we have seen so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1233	I am pleased that the former Bondevik government followed up the Stortingen's call to present an overarching action plan for human rights work. The majority took the following decisions when proceedings for the incorporation of three central human rights conventions were under consideration in the spring of 1999: ‘The Government is invited to develop an overarching action plan for information, education and training in order to protect and promote human rights in Norway.’ I am pleased that the Stortinget meets the requirement that information, education, education and research must be started in these areas. In order to strengthen the position of individuals in Norwegian law and society, we are forced to have knowledge and competence at all levels of the social system. The strengthening of the role of the Institute for Human Rights in this area is important in order to achieve the desired result. But I'd like to stress, as the Foreign Affairs Committee's attitude says, there's a number of voluntary organizations that spend monthly work on these questions. It is therefore also important to engage as much as possible — from different backgrounds — in order to gain breadth and insight, knowledge and understanding of human rights. It is therefore obvious that the Foreign Affairs Committee proposes to establish important meeting places between organisations and the professional environment in this area. I am very pleased that one of these environments is Red Cross Nordic United World College in Fjaler. At this school, young people from all over the world meet to learn about democracy, the environment and human rights. This is a unique meeting place for such learning. Another environment is Falstad, national centre for training and documentation before the theme of war's prison history, humanitarian international law and human rights. In recent years, detention has been the subject of debate and criticism. The Supreme Court has assessed the terms of the Criminal Procedures Act on custody and has found in a judicial decision that these do not conflict with the European Court of Human Rights’ practice. However, Norway has met with criticism from the Council of Europe's torture monitoring committee for cases where the practice of the care institution is not satisfactory. We take this criticism seriously. Norwegian judicial authorities have seen and will take action to come to grips with the criticism of the torture monitoring committee. As I said, the Justice Committee has to deal with the use of custody prison. Here one discusses the other aspect of custody prison and prison people's rights. I am pleased that the majority in the Foreign Affairs Committee left to the Justice Committee to deal with the changes in criminal law and the penal code in this area. Human rights are universal. This means that the rights apply to all, without regard to the colour, culture, religion, citizenship, sex, economic position, education or other, and without regard to the regime or governing it. This is becoming more important and more important in our country too; we are on the way to being a multicultural society, and we must also be able to live up to these universal dishes. Our knowledge and competence must therefore spread to everyone, and work must start in kindergartens and elementary schools. This is where we lay the foundation that we, as citizens of our country, respect the individual human being, without regard for the background. We have to establish and understand that the individual's right is always in debt, in all situations. I am therefore pleased that the list is put high on these issues by the Government, when they stress that it is not enough to go as close as possible to the minimum requirements, but that the international role of Norway implies that the authorities in many ways have to provide more on the national level than that immediately followed by the international decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1257	I am pleased that there is a general consensus in the Chamber that it is an intolerable situation for Norway to be criticized by recognised organisations such as Amnesty International and the Torture Commission. For this reason, on several occasions, the Right has proposed concrete measures to reduce the duration of care, inter alia. it is not entirely immaterial in that case, namely to grant larger appropriations. But in that context, as usual in such matters, it has been worded by the majority of the Grand Duchy. I just have to state that the representative Bondevik did not answer my question in a reply to him, why the government of Bondevik did not make sure to proceed in these matters at the time he was sitting with the government, in other words why we experienced an accident from two government councils and in the message we are now dealing with. It becomes obvious that the patience of four weeks is not possible for the previous government parties. But as I said, this is what we're going to get back to in a thorough review in the Justice Committee. When Bondevik also used the words that there was no ‘critical problem’ that the case was also dealt with in the Justice Committee, there is a good way to express it. If the Foreign Affairs Committee wants to conduct justice policy, and we look at the volume of work and proceedings between the committees, it will hardly meet with great resistance in the Judicial Committee if it is put in place. I am pleased that the previous government parties have now found themselves able to join the wish to incorporate, among other things. The Children's Convention of Norwegian law. It's time, too. Otherwise, I want to stay a little bit by saying that we still seem to be somewhat selective when criticising human rights in some countries. It's a good Lutheran tradition to peck the closest one, and in that context, it's good that you also put, like almost always, the United States and Turkey on the agenda. But I must be allowed to remind you that this is a country that contributes significantly to Norway’s security. The United States is certainly unnecessary to tell us about the significance of, but that Turkey is absolutely crucial in securing NATO's southern flanks, maybe not everyone is thinking about it. And when it comes to suggesting that contributions be made to Norwegian organisations, Norwegian NGOs, to take an active part in the work against the death penalty in the United States, I was delighted when the Minister for Foreign Affairs just said he was against the death penalty in all countries. And then my call to the Minister for Foreign Affairs – it is not a concrete proposal for funding, but a call in the majority vote to spend money – is to look at the use of money also against countries that do not guarantee Norway’s security, but that, on the contrary, receive large contributions from Norway. In this context, it might be particularly natural to point to the human rights situation in the Palestinian areas of self-government, which receives considerable resources from Norway, where the human rights situation, including the use of the death penalty, is so serious that, if you feel that you have too much of it, you could probably need money to influence – including those who receive large amounts from the Norwegian State. The call is that we really put the dimension of human rights on the agenda in our development work. I had the pleasure of, if that's the word for it, being present at a great conference under the auspices of the OSCE on combating international crime. The conference found that perhaps one of the most important causes of human rights violations — and poverty in the world, which is often a consequence of the same — is the violation of international law and order. I am pleased with the international organisations that we have joined, including: Schengen cooperation, and that we are now gradually entering Europol, but we also need to actively influence those countries that we are making significant contributions to helping.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1275	In international human rights work, it is essential that there are common conventions on human rights and that there are common enforcement mechanisms. For more than 50 years, the Council of Europe has been the leading player in this field in our continent, primarily through the European Convention on Human Rights and the European Court of Human Rights. Among other things, we have seen the great value of this in what has happened in Europe after the iron carpet fell. In fact, most central and eastern European states that have abandoned totalitarian regimes have used the Council of Europe as an invading sport against democracy, against human rights and against inclusion in the important standards that now characterise most of our continent. Of course, there has also been a discussion in the Council of Europe about how far we have come and what requirements we need to set, but we have chosen an intermediary between encouragement and support for this important work and the maintenance of the necessary standards. This, I think, has been clearly positive for the development of these countries, and perhaps even more important: it has given the citizens of these countries an individual right of appeal to the European Court of Human Rights and thus strengthened their individual rights in relation to the work of human rights. In this context, I would like to remind you that here is the amount of work and the amount of work involved, and I am therefore pleased that it is also the Government's view that this work, and not least these institutions, needs to be further strengthened, because otherwise there may be vacations and austerity that is extremely dangerous for many countries during this transitional period. However, due to the important work done by the Court of Human Rights and by the European Convention on Human Rights, there has been some concern that a parallel standard should be established and, where appropriate, a parallel enforcement authority within the EU. It is unfailingly positive that the EU now places greater emphasis on human rights and that a separate charter is drawn up in this field. It will probably also be of great importance in the context of the enlargement process to the EU that more emphasis be placed on human rights vis-à-vis the candidate countries. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has replied to the Committee's questions dated 31 October. It underlines that the EU Charter is likely to be adopted as a non-legislative political declaration. This means that human rights in the EU will be strengthened, but there will be no conflict of competences or different standards between the broader Human Rights Convention and the EU Charter. Furthermore, there will be no conflict of competence between the law enforcement in the EU itself and the law enforcement to be carried out in the European Court of Human Rights. In addition, it is emphasised that the EU Charter should not be restrictive, but will follow up and possibly extend the obligations of the Member States under the European Convention on Human Rights. I see this as a clear strengthening of the common work on human rights in Europe, and it also means that for new Member States of the Council of Europe and new candidate countries to the EU, there will be no understanding of the human rights obligations other than those of the established Member States of the Council of Europe and of the European Union. Thus, we have avoided something that could have become a struggle of competence, and we have achieved a strengthening of the work on human rights throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1290	There are many examples of gross and serious violations of human rights around the world – so great that in that perspective, most of the problems in our own country seem small. However, that does not mean that those areas where Norway has something to learn or change should not also be addressed and focused on issues related to human rights. I want to focus on two things, which are also mentioned in the mindset. There are two things that I think have been more and more updated, and where I mean – in at least one of the areas – that several parties exercise a fairly large degree of double standards. That's the issue of negative freedom of organisation. I understand that it is difficult for a party like the Workers' Party, which has close links with all the organisations that have been involved in the issue of negative organisational freedom, to look at its own shirt clip and see that here it is a principle that is just as important as the principle that one has fought for in terms of professional rights, namely the principle of choosing who represents one, if any, does not choose to be represented. I am also amazed that, in a debate a year and a half ago, the middle parties clearly stated that they felt that this was already integrated into today's legislation, are not, in fact, willing to participate in a proposal to ensure it clearly and unambiguously through Norwegian law, when two courts have said that it is not integrated into today's legislation. I know you want to wait for the Supreme Court in that context, but the truth is that we have no U.S. Supreme Court in Norway. It is this hall that is the primary interpreter of the law. When two courts have said that there is ambiguity on this point, and when you think that the negative freedom of organisation is not permitted, this house should be what obliges the Government to make changes to the law to clarify that it is a right that we also perceive as a human right. There are many legal texts and this Treaty is linked to human rights. But for many people, there are also some prose texts that embody to a great extent what you mean and how you experience it if you don't have human rights. Franz Kafka has been one of the best writers in this field, not least through the book ‘The Process’, on how the judicial system does not work without the clear rights to have. But he has written another text that is quite relevant to today's situation in Norway, namely 'The Castle', a novel about the inviolable bureaucracy. Unfortunately, there are many in our society today who experience that we have created our own 'lock'. This applies to all those who, for some reason, wish to have a visit by a family member or a friend from another country that has a visa requirement for Norway. How UDI works today, with the process and timing we would call the old Eastern European, in order to say yes to just a visit to Norway, we have gradually built our own small castle in a café sense. It is therefore true that there are people today who are asking for a visit to Norway, people who applied for a family visit last summer in November, where they had to cancel the visit and cancel the tickets, because when June came, the UDI was not finished. There are examples of people who are in the opposite situation of the situation that I remember in Norwegian media 20 years ago, when the Russians would not give way to people who had married Norwegian citizens. They didn't get out of Russia. Then there was a major violation of human rights. Today, the situation is that many do not get into Norway, or it takes an incredibly long time. So that's the opposite situation. It's in many ways that we break them. But in this bureaucracy, there are particularly people affected, and it is the lonely asylum seekers, those who actually have special rights through, among other things. the law of law. However, as has been demonstrated over and over again: the union system that exists for single asylum seekers does not work. This means that no auxiliary workers are appointed, so that it takes even longer to have asylum interviews taken by lone minor asylum seekers than it does to deal with matters for other asylum seekers. This is a matter that we have addressed to various government councils. I was very surprised to see this year's government budget, which did not actually have a single strengthening measure relating to this scheme, while in fact waiting for a major review of the entire law enforcement system. I believe that action is needed immediately in relation to single asylum seekers, not only for outsourcing in the municipalities, but also for a functioning defence and support function that provides much closer contact and understanding of how our system works, what expectations they can have, and that gives them help in the Norwegian community, also helping with any recent abuses that the newspapers have documented. It's urgent to do something in this area. It would not be right if we were to get a new Kafka who wrote ‘UDI’ instead of ‘the Castle’.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1310	There is no doubt that it is very valuable and useful to have a broad discussion and review of human rights also in our country, to which the message goes. Very many of us have probably gone around believing that human rights issues are not a current issue in our country. This perception must not get stuck. Instead, we will focus on the need in Norway to strengthen the place of human rights, both in the judicial system and in society. Human rights are a set of obligations regarding the standards and standards to be observed at all times. It is the individual human being who has been granted the rights, and it is the state that has undertaken to fulfill and respect them. Human rights are enshrined in legally binding conventions that our country and a number of other countries are obliged to follow up. It is particularly important that the rights are linked to conventions which respect political, social, cultural and economic rights. The UN Committee on Human Rights has evaluated Norway’s implementation of obligations under the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights less than a year ago. In general, the Committee stated that Norway is keeping a high level of human rights assurance. However, there is no reason to reduce the accountability in this area. There is every reason to remember that the UN Committee on Human Rights also refers to conditions that it finds negative. It should be noted, inter alia, that: that, in some cases, the term of custody is very long, and the Committee also recommends that an assessment be made of the follow-up of the prosecution authorities in matters relating to infringements of the provisions of the criminal law. The Committee is also critical and has objections to allegations of guilt and further to the provision of the second paragraph of Section 2 of the Constitution, which the Committee claims to be contrary to the right to freedom of religion. With regard to the conditions under which goods are sold, there is also every reason to recall that the European Torture Monitoring Committee again, at the latest in its report of 10 March of this year, criticises Norway for matters relating to care. First of all, the conditions in the police arrests, or the so-called smooth cells. The second critical point concerns police interrogations carried out while the interviewer has letter and visit restrictions and is used as evidence in the subsequent criminal proceedings. The European Torture Monitoring Committee is very concrete in its criticism of the situation of care in our country. The first point, as I mentioned, is on the situation in the police arrests, i.e. the smooth cells. The second point goes on the length of stay in the police detention centre. These critical conditions should be very affordable to put an end to, if only the will is there. With regard to the criticism of the length of stay in police custody, there is a criticism that has been brought forward for years. These are also relationships that go more on the will to do something than the practical ability to do something about relationships. It's actually about the Government now deciding and showing the will to take the necessary steps to remove the basis for the ever-repeating international criticism of our credibility in incorporating human rights into our own legal system in such a way that the rights can be enforced in relation to international obligations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1333	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 444]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1347	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 444]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1361	It is an overall committee which notes that the Government has now transferred the administration of State ownership in Telenor from the Ministry of Transport to the Ministry of Industry, and, on that occasion, agrees to the transfer of the necessary powers. The right has repeatedly pointed out the unfortunate fact that both the ownership role and the regulatory role in Telenor have been maintained in the same department. With this transfer, the management of the State ownership of Telenor has been brought into line with the EEA Directive which states that State ownership of a telecommunications company is to be managed by a department other than that responsible for telecommunications management. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1372	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 444]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1386	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 445]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1400	At the request of the Finance Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Socialist Left 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and Mr Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose to allow for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the contributions of the main speakers from each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1407	Let me first ask the President and the Presidency to consider whether it is not in the beginning of such presentations, when it is in the committee, to be made aware of it to the Grand Duchy. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has tabled proposals to the Committee on Budgets on free time, no restrictions, and after I have been informed, it is also recorded. I think it would be natural for the Presidency to judge whether, in such cases, when the majority voting on speaking time is presented, it should be stated in the President's statement that it is a majority, i.e. there is a minority. The Progress Party maintains its position of the Financial Committee and I would like to propose that no speaking time limits be imposed, or allocated speaking time, but that the Rules of Procedure be followed as they stand. We will propose that the Rules of Procedure be complied with on speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1414	As Mr Hagen has explained, voting will be called.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1425	Carl I. Hagen has proposed that there should be free speaking time in the debate on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox Do you want Carl I. Hagen's word?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1431	The debate on this is closed. It was called to vote, so it's voting now, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1438	Dag Terje Andersen wishes the word for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1441	The summit has been discussed in the Financial Committee. It is true that the Progress Party had this, but on behalf of all the other parties in the Committee, I can say that we stand firm at the stage of the debate proposed by the Presidency, and encourage the other groups, including Steinar Bastesen, to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1448	We then turn to alternative voting between the President's proposals for a debate and Mr Hagen's suggestion that the Rules of Procedure be followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1459	It is a rather rare proposal we are discussing — or at least a special proposal — on the basis that it is a Document No. 8-proposals that were submitted on the day Stortinget started, with the wish – I had almost said – to spend more money as soon as possible. This Document No The 8 proposal is that the price of diesel and petrol should be lowered by reducing the charges. Document No 8:1 for 2000-2001 also contains a proposal to remove the deficit in county municipalities – must be – by DKK 2 billion for hospitals, and to establish a health care purchase system abroad – a system to be managed by an office with the most prestigious abbreviation SKKMOTU, hereinafter referred to as ‘skokokomutu’. In sum, these proposals shall amount to NOK 6 billion. It's also a little special because Document No. The 8 proposal was submitted by a party which recently proposed that one could not use the oil fund in the manner proposed here. It was actually a proposal to legislate it. So it's also like Document No. The 8 proposal is not adopted. It is agreed that the concrete proposals, as presented by the Progress Party, should be annexed to the Protocol. However, in connection with the same document No. The 8th proposal has been presented with other proposals. The first proposal, which is a minority proposal, is presented by the Progress Party, SV and the Bastesen representative, amounting to 500 million. kr. It contains a change in the system we have to support the purchase of equipment at the hospitals so that the counties – or the hospital owner – take 20 pst. by the responsibility and the State 80 pst. of responsibility. This is, therefore, a proposal for a new policy throughout the year, while a budget for the next year is being discussed in the Grand Duchy, with plenty of opportunities to promote this kind of change within a comprehensive framework. I think it is relatively unrealistic that the county councils or hospitals should have the opportunity to plan for the new legislation over the rest of the year, rather than to purchase equipment under the new legislation. That's also a minority setting. The majority, on the other hand, goes in to spend $1 billion, of which 975 million. SEK shall be used for the purchase of hospital services and treatment abroad, and SEK 25 million. to various arrangements necessary to make that system work. Document No The 8 proposal might look like it's supposed to help patients. But the reality is that it is proposed to grant that billion for the year 2000. And if you're going to be close to being able to spend such amounts over the rest of the year 2000, it's certainly not possible that there are only sick people who can be sent abroad, in which case many have to be sent. And it's totally unrealistic. I don't really think anyone at all thinks that this can get started during this year. And then we're really at the heart of the matter, that appropriations for this year are also going to be realistic to use this year. It is clear from the budgetary regulations that apply to us that the budget will cover all government expenditure and revenue in the budgetary area, as far as they can be foreseen when the budget is finally adopted. It is also stated as a special note – for this document No 8 refers to a comment that the amount can be transferred – that the transfer of an addendum grant does not mean that a person may deviate from the principle of realistic budgeting. However, the appropriations for each term shall not exceed what is presumed to be the actual payments for that term. And that's pointed out several times by the National Audit Office. It's also the case that all the parties have previously agreed on it. It has been commented on as late as in the position of the new age for 1997, in a note from the Labour Party, the Right and Tverr Politicians elected by the People's Party: ‘The majority point to the fact that the Government had had the opportunity to promote these proposals in the course of the Grand Duchy’s examination of the 1998 budget in the autumn. Then one could also consider possible containment. Alternatively, the Government could have made proposals for additional appropriations for the 1998 budget, with coverage instructions. ... The majority emphasises that the budget reform of the Grand Duchy presupposes that the 1998 adopted framework is not extended by the transferability and adoption of additional appropriations for 1997 which are clearly related to activities in 1998 under the framework decision of the Grand Duchy. The majority believe that part of the Government’s change intentions is contrary to this intention and ask the Government to intensify its practice.’ And then it was about significantly lower amounts than what we're talking about here. Yes, even the Progress Party was critical of the action of the then Bondevik government. They said in the same setting: ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party assume that the ageing process shall consist essentially of the necessary technical adjustments and changes consistent with the content of the State budget decision of the EEA Joint Committee.’;» That's what the Progress Party said in that note. In the same note, the Presidency was asked to take the initiative with a view to reviewing the relationship between new age, framework decisions and the following year's budget, including the use of transferable appropriations, which is also part of the mandate of the committee appointed to look at the experience of budgetary reform. Even clearer was the Progress Party of the representative Hagen in the control committee then one in Innst. S. No 89 for 1997-98 commented that there was money left in the allocation of aid. It says: ‘These members refer to the principle of realistic budgeting and expect the Government to propose, through the Revised National Budget or budget allocation proposals, expenditure reductions that bring greater budgetary consistency to the expected payment.’;» There is therefore a broad consensus that it should not be budgeted unrealistically in addition to the fact that it is an obliging part of the legislation we have laid down for ourselves. It is clear from the recommendation that there is no disagreement on the use of offers abroad, on a medical/professional basis and on the basis of evaluation, if it is desirable, either for long waiting periods or for other duly justified reasons. But it is that there are some things that should be clarified before it can be done. A lot of it's about safety. This relates to the possibility of having and having paid for the succession. It is simply as simple as agreeing with hospitals that may accept patients from Norway. Although foreign hospitals are as clean and as healthy as the ones we have, there may be concerns about some parts of the health service that can be provided because of other bacterial flora. It is simply not that you can only make a decision in the Storting to start sending out people, but there is no disagreement about the offer being made. The proposal submitted is obviously not intended to help patients. It's meant to buy voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1505	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1508	As the representative Andersen and most of the others in this room have probably registered, the truck industry is struggling. It wears so hard that it is beyond bankruptcy in the industry. More and more companies are breaking up. The background for this is, of course, on the one hand, the sky-high oil prices and, on the other hand, the strange diesel taxes that we have. Then it is amazing that the Workers' Party will not do anything about this at this time. When you see that bankruptcies occur in the industry, the Workers' Party suggests that you lower the fee only from 1 January and then from 1 July. Then it is clear that the Workers' Party is looking for a boosting of the industry, when they see that the industry is struggling, but they want to pull this out. I then have the following question: what makes the Workers' Party not going to help save the industry, and that as soon as possible, by voting in favour of a proposal from the Progress Party to lower the diesel tax from 15 November? Is it a goal to win the industry for everyone going bankrupt and we're free from a national transport industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1515	It is such that the Storting has adopted, against some votes, the charges applicable to diesel this year. With regard to the reality of the diesel tax in Norway, in 1998 and 1999, the Progress Party was with and adopted the budget that would apply to the country. They voted in favour of that budget. In 1998, charges went up, and in 1999 charges went up. But this year they went up very little, at least for the diesel that is actually being used, that is, the one that has less sulphur content than the old traditional diesel. If we compare the diesel tax a year ago on the diesel that was then delivered with a higher sulphur content, with the diesel tax today on the diesel that is being delivered with a lower sulphur content today, if I now do not remember faults, it is 1 penny in difference in diesel tax from last year to this year. For the first time in our history, we proposed to reduce the diesel tax. When I say the first time, it's because it's the first time it's been presented with a proposal of containment that has enabled the Stortinget to establish a majority to reduce the diesel tax. That is the reality of the charge. That's something we think we can be quite satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1520	I was not actually going to take a line on Dag Terje Andersen, but I was inspired when I heard the end of his article. What was said about the fact that those who voted in favour of this one proposal in the Chamber today, do it because one should buy votes and not patient treatment, was quite unsubstantiated. There was a rather provocative remark at the end of an otherwise quiet post from the committee leader. My question to Dag Terje Andersen is as follows: What about Minister of Health Tore Tønne's holding when he said he was positive about buying more patient treatment abroad? His play-out just at the time when we considered whether to go for or not to go for this proposal, actually agreed to lay the foundation for our attitude to say yes to the proposal – or at least the intention in it – that Carl I. Hagen had brought forward. Is Tore Tønne's yes to more purchases of patient treatment abroad more noblely motivated than our yes, we who actually want to buy patient treatment because people are in line and need treatment? What is the difference between his yes to the purchase of services in relation to a yes from all of us here in the hall – which therefore has base motives and only says yes because we are going to buy votes?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1527	In the case of my closing comment on Document No presented: The 8-proposal, in fact, states that the protocol is attached, which is also agreed by the Christian People's Party. However, the characteristics could have been used to a large extent in relation to the proportion of the majority voting in favour of money in 2000. That was the comment. Because we all know, in the light of the answers we have received from the Government, that it will not be possible to initiate this kind of action properly before the New Year. So in terms of health policy content, I commented briefly and pointed out that we actually believe that if you can establish sound solutions to use services abroad, we are for that. But my comment was to grant money for the year 2000 that one knows can't be used in the year 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1532	I was not inspired to hear the contributions of Dag Terje Andersen. I was actually provoked, because he said that this proposal by the proposers might look like it is for the benefit of patients. It's an insinuation. Of course – when we grant $1 billion to treat patients, it is actually meant for patients, and then you get to believe what else you want about the proposal. But I think we have argued quite well in the setting that Right’s vision – and other parties shared it at the time – on patients’ rights is not fulfilled. We also pointed out that there are capacity problems in the Norwegian health care system and in the Norwegian economy that buying services in the health sector abroad is currently a good solution. Then I think one should deal with it and relate to the health policy situation in the country, which is highly unsatisfactory, rather than insinuating that the opposition will now send patients to hospitals with a bacterial flora that makes it worse. In fact, I have such confidence in the health authorities of the country that this is not how they manage a big decision. I also think that the committee leader's discussion about the procedural rules is a bit side by side in this context. But I'm recording, and I'm taking note, that in a discussion about whether we're going to spend $1 billion to operate people abroad when there's no capacity in Norway, the Workers' Party's answer to that is: No, we can't discuss it now. This is contrary to Storting's allocation rules. That's way of being sour. There's a way to be angry because if you lose a debate. I agree that this is not at all the way we normally deal with matters. But another way to get the government to take seriously that we need to take care of the hospital capacity in Norway by buying services abroad, I have not yet found, and I therefore use this opportunity with a good conscience.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1543	I understand that the Right has an explanation problem, because it is precisely this type of budgeting as a previously responsible party that the Right has been very concerned that one should not get involved. There is broad consensus that when we can make good use of healthcare abroad on a professional and correct basis, we should do so. It's in the setting. That's not what this is about. At the time when the Committee was working on this matter, it was such that the Minister of Health, Mr. Tønne, was already considering that type of proposal. That's not what this is all about, it's a consensus. Of course, this type of action needs to be financed when one is ready to implement it. Nor am I suggesting that you get sick of being in a foreign hospital. On the contrary, I tried to be quite careful with the wording on it so that it could not be abused by anyone who wants to misunderstand posts from the pulpit. There is reason to have medical professionals analyse that very part of using such services. We want to put that in place first. What I've commented on is what I see as an attempt to trick the voters, namely that it's given the impression that one can give a billion dollars for use in the year 2000 that can benefit the patients. I have made that comment in the light of the fact that all parties in this Chamber have previously said that budgeting should be realistic. The health offer should be strengthened by using foreign offers. The government is already in the process of doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1554	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1557	The last day Terje Andersen said was, "The government is already in the process." Already – eight to ten years after we started this fight to get arrangements for buying operations abroad, and which we again, three years ago, proposed in a Document No. Eight proposals after the 1997 elections, when we had had to do it for years! And because Health Minister Tore Tønne, after this proposal was thoroughly published, notified and presented, finally got his finger out and started to do something about it, then Dag Terje Andersen has the habit of coming here and saying that this is already working on the government, and insinuating that we don't think about the patients. Has Dag Terje Andersen never received a letter from patients who have been rejected by the Rikstrygdeverket in respect of grants for operations abroad, after they have not received any help here? Has he never met people who are in an operating queue, who come with a bunch of papers where they have tried all kinds of options, and who have applied for operations abroad, but who, because the law to get approved operations abroad is so rigorous and difficult, almost never got it? And then he comes here and says, "The government is already doing it. It is almost like hearing Prime Minister Stoltenberg, who in recent days has said that they are doing so and that in order to strengthen the health system – strengthen the health system, strengthen the health system! The Labour Party has certainly ruled this country for most of the last 15-20 years! And then he tries to imagine something, after they haven't done anything special about this, other than that every single time they've been pressured, they've finally met. We have a terrible situation, as the letter from the health minister in the stand-up shows – 200,000 waiting for surgery, a significant number waiting, tens of thousands who don't get surgery within a six-month deadline. How long will the Workers' Party be able to trick the Norwegian people into believing that the Workers' Party is committed to strengthening the Health Service? And Dag Terje Andersen also refers to the setting, from which I will be allowed to quote from the Workers' Party's remark: ‘These members agree to allow patients to receive the necessary health care within a period of time related to sound medical judgement abroad. These members therefore believe that it would be natural for a significant increase in the volume of purchases of operations abroad to be linked to the ordinary treatment of the State budget by the Stortinge for 2001.’» There is not a word in the 2001 State Budget from the Government on funds for operations abroad. After this proposal was presented, there has begun to be movement in all parties, including the Government, who realize that they may have to start doing something. And so Tore Tønne, deserving enough, as a new minister of health, has begun to explore these possibilities, which all his predecessors have not done. But we actually have a little bit of faith in the government too, if they know they have money that they don't have in the budget. And there is no proposal from the Workers' Party on any pot for this in the 2001 budget. The money the Workers' Party in the Financial Committee refers to doesn't exist at all, it's the actual situation. But we believe that if they get money, you can’t be so hopeless organizers and administrators that you can’t get a lot started relatively quickly. Hospitals in Germany are ready. I'm sure hospitals in Sweden are ready, and in England. It is not so complicated if you have some action, to connect ordinary operations that you wait for here in Norway, to very good, sound medical hospitals in other countries. The whole argument of the Workers' Party is wretched, they're trying to dictate all sorts of reasons why this should be so difficult. Now at least the government gets through the decision that is made, some money they can spend, because Dag Terje Andersen again in a very sarcastic and cynical way forgets to say that this allocation is made transferable. We are fully aware that it is not possible to use all of this before the end of 2000, but then we have transferred funds to enable us to launch that device and to obtain a large-scale purchase of operating capacity abroad – which the Workers' Party will later be in favour of, but which they will do in practical policy to stop by not granting money. That's something I don't understand about the Workers' Party. With regard to the petrol tax and the diesel tax, it is possible that the Workers' Party believes that only a fee is paid, according to the reply from Kenneth Svendsen, but what you have to pay in the pumps is actually both a fee and a price. What happened was that the government of Bondevik, together with the Workers' Party, fixed a petrol tax that was intended to give a petrol price of NOK 8.90 in the year 2000. When the oil price went up and extraordinary billions rolled into the treasury, they wouldn't even use what was necessary to keep their own assumption of NOK 8.90 for gasoline. Because then the petrol charge could have been reduced, so that the pump price for both diesel and petrol was kept stable. No other country could do anything about it, because they don't have the big oil revenues we got. Why is it that the Workers' Party on Death and Life does what they can to ensure that people in Norway will not benefit from the fact that this country has become richer? I understand the many people who before the Workers' Party national meeting they said they did not understand why they could not use any of the revenues to at least keep the promises for a petrol price of NOK 8.90 that they gave in connection with the budget – and the equivalent for diesel. In fact, it seems as if the Labour Party sees it as an accident for the country that this year we will receive an extra 100 billion. And so we want the Norwegian people to benefit from this – in the sense that, according to what is documented, hospitals have large deficits that they have to cover in the next few years’ budgets, it should not be difficult to cover the deficits for all these hospitals. There is then no difficulty for chains that have well over 100 units, to have accounting systems so that you can supply the individual store, if that was about to do, deficit coverage. And why on earth can't we give the hospital a handshake that they could start in 2001 without guilt? There is nothing to do with demand and inflation at all. Why could you not give a handshake to those who work in hospitals – as we say in our proposal. Why in the world is the Minister of Health not now able to enter into negotiations with the Association of Nurses and the Auxiliary Care Association and say: We are prepared to assess a significant increase in the salary level if we are accepted for normal management management principles in our hospital community so that it becomes the management who determines the kind of qualifications to be offered in the individual position and that the trade unions do not sit as plugs in the system. The same government boasts that they've been doing it to the teachers, so that's where we don't have to talk about this anymore, as we've been doing for years. Why can't you do the same around the world to make the rigid health care systems more flexible? You have the full potential in the economy. And as the government party itself said when it came to the Gardermo, where 7 billion dollars were spent on debt: the activity has already taken place, so that's not why we spend 7 billion kroner on inflation. Would it have any kind of inflation effect if you were to erase the deficits for the activity that has already occurred? Of course not. I think it is gratifying, in conclusion, that the other parties in this case have at least had the ability to cut through and not let any rules prevent this accumulation from doing something that makes sense in itself, namely to provide funds for a dramatic decoration of the legislation for the purchase of operations abroad and a dramatic organisation of something that can remove – of course in the long term – the unworthy health cows that we unfortunately have in this country. And so I would like Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg to stop trying to imagine the Norwegian people that the Labour Party government is concerned about this, when they are talking in practice, but not making funds available. The Labour Party would have had a trustworthiness if, after this examination, they had made proposals in the 2001 budget at an equivalent amount that this majority would now transfer to 2001. Then there would have been a team in what the Workers' Party said, but it is not. I allow myself to include in the vote the proposals of the Advance Party and the proposals to which we are co-sponsors.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1598	Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1601	Document No 8:1 by Carl I. Hagen on changes in the state budget for 2000 contains several different proposals. Firstly, there are proposals for new tax rates on petrol and car diesel, so that the pump price in Norway comes down to approx. Six. Ninety-nine. This should take effect from 1 November 2000. Secondly, an additional two billion kroner for the current budget is proposed to cover deficits in the Norwegian hospitals. In addition, a certain amount of resources will be sufficient to ensure that there is no lack of money as a reason for not being able to make maximum use of the capacity for the operation and treatment of the sick. The third proposal seeks to create a «State Agency for the Purchase of Medical Operations and Services from the rest of the world». Actually, it's a little strange that the Progress Party is proposing to create a new government office, but now it's not. Such an office should have organised the purchase of treatment capacity from hospitals and treatment institutions in other countries. In total, this proposal is to be covered by NOK 6 billion – and there is not a small amount on the barrel of a year, I have to say that. These proposals, to the extent that all three go against the Christian People's Party. Of course, it should be possible for the Storting to change the budget in the middle of – or so far at the end of – a fiscal year when very serious consideration is given to it. But none of the first two proposals are of such a nature that we believe it is justified to change the budget for the current year in such a way. Such changes should, of course, be taken as far as possible, possibly in conjunction with the treatment of the revised national budget in June. So the Christian People's Party is moving towards lowering the fees on fuel. If we had these money at our disposal, I think there would have been many other unresolved tasks in the community I'd rather use them for. At the same time, we know that lowering prices on fuel as much as Carl I suggests. Hagen will have environmental policy implications that are absolutely not included in this accounting. We also oppose the deletion of the defects in our hospitals. When it comes to Carl I. Hagen's last proposal, the Christian People's Party supports part of its intention, but we oppose the proposal as it stands, so we would suggest that it be annexed to the Minutes. However, we would point out that the proposal addresses important aspects of the situation in the Norwegian health system. An increase in the volume of purchases of patient treatment abroad is necessary. A large number of patients waiting for treatment in Norway have to wait unnecessarily long. That is why we want to open up for patients to receive needed health care abroad, even in recent years. That's why we've been on promises of the current year's budget and making them transferable, so that what we don't spend this year can be used for next year. I wonder when it is so clearly said by the Labour Party that it is impossible to get this done in the current year. The last time today, there is a lookup in the Evening Post where information is obtained from hospitals in Germany. They say that they have even come so far that some clinics have already gotten Norwegian-speaking medical personnel to deal with these patients, and that they are ready to accept all kinds of operations at prices that are actually 50-90 pst. under the Norwegian Republic. This is probably just an example of many, and when everything is as good as possible – I have also realized that Minister of Health Tore Tøn is positive about using such services – I am surprised that we cannot start as fast as possible, and therefore in the current year. One should not be expected, it should be done immediately! Some of the treatments we want to buy abroad should be linked to specialised functions where the patient base in Norway is too small to allow us to establish a high-quality offer here in ourselves. Cooperation with foreign hospitals gives us good insight into different forms of operation, thereby also stimulating innovation in the organisation of the Norwegian hospitals. Another additional element that has weighed heavily for the Christian People's Party is that it is not easy to expand the capacity of Norwegian hospitals without strengthening the pressure in the Norwegian economy. Buying services abroad doesn't give the same pressure on the Norwegian economy, patients get good treatment, and they don't wait that long to get this treatment. There are arguments that have weighed heavily on us when we have submitted to the proposal for a vow. As I said initially, it is important that a stable framework also exists in budgetary work, and that any changes should actually be made in the context of the revised national budget. In spite of this, we see that the proposal deals with important aspects of the health situation in Norway today, both with deficits and with large debts. So this is our reason why we support the proposal and the permission of NOK 1 billion for the purchase of healthcare abroad. A code, which also Dag Terje Andersen has introduced us to in his article, must not bind us up so that we cannot do what we think is right, when the situation arises. It is also important for the Christian People's Party to stress that this is an instrument to address some of the health problems we have in the short term, and that this is not meant to solve their major health care challenges in the longer term. It is important to maintain the objective of a well-developed Norwegian healthcare system that is dimensioned to the real needs of our country. This measure does not destroy long-term planning, but it may help some of the patients who have been in line for a long time to get the treatment they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1622	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1625	In these days, we are discussing the 2001 budget in Stortinget. The representative, Valgerd Reply City Haugland, said in his statement that it is very important to have predictable framework conditions in a budgetary context. Of course, in a budget and the discussions around it, it is also important to keep a certain order, to have an overview, and to have confidence in each other in the work that is being carried out. In the budget agreement between the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party for the year 2000, we entered the following: ‘This Agreement shall apply to the 2000 budget. Any needs of any of the contracting parties for changes in the financial sizes covered by this Agreement must be discussed with the contracting parties.» Does the representative, Valgerd Reply City Haugland think that what is now being done is in line with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1637	I know well the agreement that Erik Dalheim refers to. I must say, it is not the first time that that appointment is not honoured. When the Government presented revised budgets in spring, it presented major changes, including: cut in the area we had been agreed on. I can, for example, mark 400 million. NOK in Norwegian aid. There was a proposed cut in the revised budget, and no one contacted the centre party then to discuss with us whether there were any changes that we could agree to. Treatment was provided in the Storting, such as other cases. And when the government chose to deal with the revised budget in such a way without discussing the big cut proposals, among other things. what I mentioned, with us, we actually felt freed from that agreement, because the government did not take seriously the agreement when it took over the government after the Bondevik government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1642	Vallerd Svarstad Haugland also spoke, as far as I was aware, about predictable framework conditions. It was not then a framework condition for the 2000 budget that the price of petrol should be about approx. $8.90 a.m. liters, and the equivalent for diesel? What all consumers, employees, were dealing with was, of course, the price of the pumps. Does it not appear then that Valgerd Replystad Haugland would be natural that when the oil price went up and you got extraordinary billions of revenues, some of it used to keep the framework condition that the petrol price and the diesel price were in the budget? That's my first question. The second is on the deficits in the hospitals. She won't accept that you should be able to do anything about it at the end of a year. My point is that a few years ago, Valgerd Svarstad Haugland and the Christian People's Party were also involved in removing 7 billion kroner in debt that the Gardermoban had. And instead of having a deposit, with which the Minister of Finance is so careful, that he had no chance of doing within his own regulations at the time, they made the final justification that this was the expenditure that had been incurred, for an activity that had been carried out, and therefore there was no pressure in the labour market and in the civil engineering sector if this debt was to be repaid at NOK 7 billion — to the extent that it was completely correct. But the same applies to hospitals, too, that the deficit they have now accumulated is for the activity that has been carried out, and the deficits must be covered in the next few years and will go beyond patient treatment. Why can't you also give up a debt for the hospitals when you could do it for the Gardermoban?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1651	First of all, petrol prices: now it's not like the taxes on petrol plar vary according to the oil goes up or down in price. That's right, as Carl I. Hagen said, there was an assumption about a certain price of petrol when we put in the budget. So the oil price has changed a lot afterwards. I see from Carl I. Hagen's suggestion that if we had adjusted them to the oil price, he'd lower the gas prices much more than what's most likely to happen. Enough about that. That's his priority of the public funds. We have chosen not to enter and adjust them in the course of the year, but we can imagine being on a payroll – as the Government has also proposed in relation to the next year. But to do that in the middle of the year, we haven't gone in for it. In the case of the Gardermoban, I'm not going to say so much about the lot that went for and what game went against building the Gardermoen or the Gardermoban. That's where the track is. The difference between erasing the debt and deleting the hospital debt is, of course, that the debt that hospitals have must be paid by the county council. And if we erase the debt that the county has when it comes to hospitals, the county can spend these money in other areas. Of course, it would have been inconceivable that we could have cleared the debt with a pen stroke at the end of the year. If the government comes back at the age of December and proposes it, I believe that there is a proposal that can be supported here in the hall. But the point is that if we just cash in more money, we also have to include how these money will affect the Norwegian economy in general. We have to have that as a pretext when we take our position, when we say yes or no to such a debt cancellation. This liability is different from the one that is owed as a eraser when it broke the Gardermoban.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1662	The representative of Svarstad Haugland used as a reason why the proposal for patient treatment abroad could be supported, that this was money spent abroad and therefore did not contribute to the pressure of the economy. Let's agree that the reason why we're doing this is that it's important for patients, and not for pressure in the economy. Of course, before this money is spent, a lot of them will contribute to domestic demand. There will be Norwegian charterers transporting patients out, and there will be Norwegian nurses following them – many Norwegian kroner are included. Anyway, that's right. In order to follow the reasoning that this can be done because it does not contribute to pressure in the Norwegian economy, Svarstad Haugland should have participated in the proposal that SV has promoted about SEK 1⁄2 billion for hospital equipment. This will mainly be equipment that would have been purchased abroad and will not contribute to pressure in the Norwegian economy. In general, it would be German, American or perhaps Japanese equipment, which will contribute to efficiency and higher quality in Norwegian hospitals. We see – like many others – that Norwegian hospitals now have a large debt, and that the distribution key between the state and the hospital owners for the purchase of hospital equipment, which is 40-60, causes under-use in this item, an under-use which is not due to need, but of course due to the fact that the self-payment for county municipalities is far too high. The 760 million. by the majority removed from the revised national budget, it is likely that it will not be able to achieve its objectives within the time limit given, simply because it has now become too excessive. Therefore, my challenge to the representative of Svarstad Haugland is this: Should not the representative have been involved? If you didn't want to take part in the purely material proposal on money, you should have been involved in a change in the distribution key between the hospital owners and the state to ensure that this kind of extraordinary measure that we are now giving money to, that is, the patient bridge to the rest of the world, might not be necessary in the future, because we are getting up on efficiency and quality by investing mainly in foreign equipment in Norwegian hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1675	Øystein Djupedal's interpretation or surrender of my article was a bit wrong. I'll repeat what I said: ‘Buying services abroad does not give rise to the same pressure on the Norwegian economy.’ This means that there is not so much pressure to increase the permissions of Norwegian hospitals as to buy patient treatment. I am quite aware that such a patient bride also affects the Norwegian economy so that money is also used in Norway, indirectly or directly. But it doesn't give the same pressure, and that's what was my point. I think Øystein Djupedal is a bit right that one could also have purchased more hospital equipment abroad and used it in Norwegian hospitals to fix some of the problems they have. In this round we in the Christian People's Party have chosen to support the proposal on the one billion, and then we will see in the future what we can do to make both an effective use of the purchase of equipment and to help hospitals. Now we also know that the National Meeting in the Labour Party has decided that the State should take over the ownership of hospitals. How the funding model will be for the Norwegian hospitals in the future, we do not know quite clearly yet. But when that matter is to be debated – regardless of which party is for and which party is against state ownership, for which there are probably multiples – it might also be interesting to address the issues that Øystein Djupedal mentions. Everything, both the purchase of equipment and the purchase of patient treatment, has an impact on the pressure in the Norwegian economy. We have chosen to take part in the one proposal. We have prioritised it because we want to help patients get treatment. Then everyone else gets good love that it could of course have been good for everyone in this room – including the Workers' Party – to be in, treated in connection with next year's government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1697	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1700	I'm not going to play up here for a discussion about who invented what, and which game was first out. It's a special exercise for the Advance Party that I'm going to lay down. I just want to remind you that there is nothing new in Norwegian policy that we send patients abroad both of the lack of capacity here at home and of the lack of professional offers. We had a heart bridge in the 1980s before we created enough and good enough offers in Norway, so it's seen as nothing new. This is an addition, it's not going to be a normal arrangement. Why not indebtedness? It is a good question that has been raised, because it is clear that there is no argument against indebtedness that it affects the pressure in the Norwegian economy, at least not directly, but my argument against indebtedness is that there is an inappropriate way to run financial management. I note that the Labour Party believes the same thing on the Stortinget, but not in the counties, where they are still dependent on the health institutions that are unable to keep the budget being honoured with indebtedness at the end of the year. I think that experience suggests a very bad form of financial management. There is quite a difference between our hospitals, not in terms of leverage and the ability to keep the budget, but in terms of actual costs per person. comparable services. So here I think you have to keep that as long as you have the ownership distribution that it's the states that own and have the operational responsibility for the health institutions, they also have to be responsible. Some kind of carte blanche debt restructuring, I think, is bad health economy. So far about it. What matters now is what is needed to be adopted – and I am very pleased to be adopted – namely that the Minister of Health is now not only allowed to wish for operations abroad, but now he is also getting money to carry them out. I am absolutely convinced that the Minister of Health has now received from the Stortinget what he has previously asked for from the Minister of Finance – that is what often happens in all governments, but it is not every day you get such Christmas gifts, at least not in November. Professionally well managed, this means that the Right’s view of patients’ rights is closer to fulfilment. We believe that in the current queue there are a significant number of patients who should have had surgery for the longest time. Then we say that it can be triggered in Norwegian hospitals. It's actually one interesting effect of this. I know a county council where decisions to buy healthcare abroad were met that the county hospital nevertheless intended to find the capacity to perform at least parts of them. It's an interesting effect, you can learn a part of it. Now I don't think it'll be the effect all over the country, but it's an effect, it's nothing better than that. In addition, we know that there are some hospitals in our neighbouring countries that have significant capacity available. I even read that some of these hospitals have Norwegian-speaking medical staff. I was about to say, it's more than you can say in part about some Norwegian hospitals. It wasn't quite meant to be a generalization, but it's a problem that we're dealing with both here and there. So I think you should have less fear of using capacity in our neighbouring countries when they have it available, and just want to make it clear: Norway is not in the situation that we stand out from other countries in the direction of having completely different quality requirements in our healthcare institutions. We are highly comparable to countries that are both close to us and sometimes very distant from us in Europe. So here I think you can safely go into professional cooperation. I think, just to conclude, that the Labour Party in this case could have acted a little more cautiously. There are two points there: first, to characterize the right as a previously responsible party I think you should be careful with. There may be discussions in this Chamber later where it may just be Right who must defend the government's budgetary balance. So I'll warn against a little too strong vocabulary there. In this context, when we have chosen to say that the purchase of services abroad is what at least creates pressure in the Norwegian economy and can be taken at the expense of the balance sheet, I will defend it. On the other hand, I do not agree with many other creative proposals that come forward to go beyond the balance. But in this context, I think it's extremely sound. I also want to warn the Workers' Party against a kind of unilateral formalist argument in the direction of concealing the fact that here it is a political disagreement about whether it is right to use an extra DKK 1 billion to buy patient capacity, operating capacity, abroad or one. The rules governing the allocation of appropriations have rarely prevented a political majority from realizing a wish for a professionally sound approach of this kind.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1718	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1721	Since Per-Kristian Foss has warned in advance against both strong vocabulary and formalism, one should probably be a little cautious, but it must be allowed to wonder. In general, the right has been tidy in the budgetary procedure. That is why the Right was also involved in the reform work we have done on the budgetary procedure in the Storting and which has created more tidyness. But one prerequisite for such cleanliness is that we grant within the terms we have to grant to adjust revenue and expenditure. And this is a budget of nearly $1 billion for the purchase of patient services abroad for the rest of 2000. I think everyone understands that it's completely unrealistic budgeting – for 2000. The fact that the term ‘transferability’ is attached does not lead to any change in the allocation of appropriations in relation to the deadlines. It is not that, at the end of the year, expenditure or revenue on the State budget can be increased as a kind of fund-building in relation to future needs. Among other things, it will make Storting's control of the Government and the Riksrevision's control of the Government different much more difficult than it is today. There are a number of ways of responding to current needs in 2001, as the Storting is in the middle of the budgetary process. This is, of course, a form of political signaling which may even require that the rules on appropriations be abolished.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1726	No, this is not a political signaling of the desire to change the allocation regulation on some general basis, and I can well say, since the representative also concerned the budgetary reform, that there is no particular desire to change it either. If I could get a corresponding statement from the Workers' Party in the Chamber, that would be very interesting. We actually stand by this, more than I have the impression that the Workers' Party is currently doing. So it's not supposed to be on it. When it comes to the control of the Riksrevision, I think it might also be a good idea here to dampen the use of words. If you read today's newspapers and the report from the National Audit Office on some investments on Norwegian continental shelf, I think there are examples that the Riksaudition has bigger problems than controlling exactly what we're talking about right now. And then I have to say: Had the Labour Party in the committee work and in preparation for this matter met this with other than polemics, met this with other than formalism, I would say that yes, we agree that there is a need for a raise here beyond what the Government has proposed. And there is no lack of will today to do anything but what the Government has proposed! I have the impression that it has gone about. 10 billion a week, the last couple-three weeks at least, in relation to changing the government's budget. But if at this point one had shown the will to do something that had lifted this and said that yes, we can break with a billion, or half even, in addition to the balance sheet because we buy abroad, several might have agreed – more than the majority that now actually agrees despite the fact that we are not so often – to do something that was within normal appropriations. I agree. However, the Workers' Party is not even willing to grant jobs on the current annual budget – they have been sitting completely on their backs. Then we could get a collaboration that had involved part of the appropriations now, and some next year. So the Workers' Party has not shown any willingness under any part of this case, and that's why you have now also sat in the fur corner. We are not discussing health policy, but we are discussing furting that the majority will do something the Workers' Party has not proposed. So I understand that the Minister of Health is thinking about operating abroad, while we want to do something about it. And that's the difference. At least the Minister of Health should be happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1741	Per-Kristian Foss said something at the very beginning of his post that I hope I misunderstood, but I would like to have clarified, namely that a grant to purchase operating capacity abroad was a one-off operation. I hope that this will be a permanent arrangement, at least as long as we need to buy operating capacity or processing capacity abroad because our own is too small. And even in a situation that's normal, it would probably be an advantage that a country that especially Per-Christian Foss claims has a shortage of labour and has pressure in the economy, actually tries to find new ways of importing goods and services as long as they're perfectly sound and as long as our own foreign economy permits. So I would like to ask Per-Kristian Foss to clarify whether one should continue with this at least until we have an acceptable situation in Health-Norway, with much shorter waiting time, or rather, no particular waiting time at all, and that this must continue until the need may be met. And so far, you can keep doing it if it's the case that we have a good foreign economy situation and pressure in the domestic economy. So to my second question, right is on a note where it says: ‘Increased health spending through the purchase of healthcare abroad will not create pressure in the Norwegian economy.’ Will, sir. Foss then agree that our current budgetary system, and the allocation regulations, which do not distinguish between purchases of goods and services in the home country, which create pressures in the economy, and purchases of goods and services abroad, which do not, actually contribute to creating obstacles to something that would otherwise make sense that the Norwegian State and the Stortinget did, and that we should perhaps look at this system on a slightly wider basis?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1758	I can calm down, sir. Hagen. He misunderstood, or I expressed myself perhaps unclear – or somewhere in the middle. I believe that it is normal for us to be able to have enough hospital capacity in the country to meet our own needs. Whether it's a one-time operation over a few years or one, I'm not going to take a stand until now, but let me say that the heart bridge was at least more than a budget year. And I think we need to be able to do this in our own country by reorganizing our own health care system. I don't believe in the method of pushing wages up at all costs, but I actually think we have to look at the figures here – both for jobs and for the economy in health care – in relation to other countries. So other countries get more out of it. So to the study of France: I understand the government has very commendably started a cooperation with France to see what they do that we don't get. It's very interesting, and I think it's a lot to pick up there. Finally, on the budgetary regulation or the way in which the effects of the State budget are calculated: it has been dealt with in the past. I don't think the models we have to calculate the press effects or the way we make the state budget prevent us from doing anything reasonable. Now we're doing something reasonable. So it's a question of political will or not. I don't think there's anything in the calculation system or in the calculation system for the use of public funds in Norway that prevents us from doing what we're doing now, because we're actually doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1769	It's not so rare that Per-Kristian Foss and I agree on the difference between the formal and the formalist, but not today. I also notice that in his loving, polemic way he refers to the budgetary discussions and the other budgetary work that is going on in the Grand Duchy these days. So there is work to be done on what the 2001 budget will look like and how, in general, it will be possible to reconcile the revenue and expenditure of the Storting properly within that period. That debate comes back to us in the context of the 2001 financial debate. It is also true that when a grant can be transferred within the system we have today, it is because there is sometimes a real uncertainty as to how quickly and in what ways some projects can be realised. But here you put the label on a grant that you know you can't realize in the 2000 budget. Then, as I said in a previous post, it becomes a form of fund-building, and it deprives the Stortinget of controlling the reconciliation of government revenue and expenditure, and it deprives the Stortinget of a reasonable control that the Government does what the Storingen requires the Government to do within the year 2000. And that's true no matter how good the purpose might be.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1781	This is actually a discussion of how good the purpose is, because I note that the two reasons for buying out capacity, both that it does not increase the pressure in the Norwegian economy, that is, that we have a lack of capacity at home, and that it is right for health policy, are not arguments Workers' parties use in their 2001 budget. We can discuss the formal – and I stress the formal – but when the formal becomes a pure parody to hide a real disagreement, and I actually think the Workers' Party is doing it in this discussion, then I use the term formalistic. It is possible that there is a shade that we do not agree on, but that is where my little shade lies. If, as I said, we had been willing to enter into a debate about getting this done, we could have done so, but the Labour Party has just put its foot down during the treatment, and – to say it more directly than usual – the Labour Party had not expected this majority to occur. They never imagined terror. They drove on to autopilot. And if you're in a new terrain, it happens that you just don't hit it completely, to put it like that. I think that's where it really was. But now the majority is secure. I'm very happy about that. I expect that the health minister's plans can now be realized more quickly and to a greater extent than originally foreseen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-14.ana.ud2059e1788	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is late. The President will propose that the meeting be suspended and that a new meeting be set at 9 p.m. 18 for further consideration of case No. 6 on today's map. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
