ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e62	The representatives Anne Enger Lahnstein and Bjørn Hernæs, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. The appointed alternate of Oslo, Anders C. Sjaastad, has taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the leave of the representative Erik Dalheim on 7 March in order to attend the thematic conference on education in the direction of the Nordic Council in Copenhagen and on 8 and 9 March in order to take part as the Nordic Council representative in the Arctic Committee's meetings in Washington from the representative May Britt Vihovde on welfare leave in the days 7 and 8 March On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For the County of Buskerud: Frank Willy LarsenFor the county of Hordaland: Thorbjørn Merkesdal3. Frank Willy Larsen and Thorbjørn Merkesdal are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives Erik Dalheim and May Britt Vihovde.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e115	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today as well as for the Stortinge meeting next week – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e120	I suggest Per Ove Width.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e125	Per Ove Width is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Per Ove Width is unanimously elected as chairman of the Stortinget meeting today and the Stortinget meetings next week. The representative, Karin Andersen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e130	I would like to make proposals to increase the country's expenditure on municipal expenditure on the settlement of refugees and the change in the rules that allow the labour market legislature to use resources for training and training for people who have to wait a long time to settle their asylum application.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e135	The representative Rolf Rikvam will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e138	On behalf of Karin Andersen, Øystein Djupedal and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the creation of training offices for the preservation of the old crafts and industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e144	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 4 is dealt with as a whole, and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e187	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each group of parties and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e198	Let me start with a wish that we don't use this debate to blackmail and reinforce the negative situation that we have in school. However, there are several symptoms that suggest that the state of public schools, in primary and secondary schools, is becoming serious. I have to point to a number of areas. First of all, it's spreading a pessimism and a dissatisfaction in many of the teachers' groups. Secondly, applications for general teacher training and pre-school teacher training have fallen dramatically. At last autumn's intake, it was hardly possible to fill the places with applicants who had teacher training as their first priority. This does something about the motivation of those who are going to be teachers in our school. Thirdly, several teachers choose to leave school to start in other professions. This proportion has increased well in recent years. Fourthly, the municipalities cut out the expenses of the school. According to a new report, nine out of ten municipalities belong to the school budgets. This is not an expression that municipal politicians are negative to education, it is an expression of public poverty and a earmarking of funds to other sectors. Fifth, the differences between municipalities in hours of education are increasing. Several municipalities now use so little that it is hardly possible to share the class in the teaching of swimming. There are schools where each class has 0.6 hours for group division, and that's serious. Sixth, there is a growing dissatisfaction among students, especially in youth. And for the seventh, we see that the proportion of non-accredited teachers has increased in recent years. To a long time in the 1990s, it was 2-3 pst. by the teachers who lacked approved education. Today it's up between 6 and 7 pst, and it's a dramatic increase. Something might be explained by Reform 97, but it is clear that the proportion of teachers without approved education has increased. This is a development that we have to turn around, and it's the Storting that has the primary responsibility for getting it done. I hope that the setting we are about to process can make an important contribution to such a reverse operation. I would also like to congratulate the Committee on the work that has been done. There has been a real commitment to the school in this work. In the vote, there is a different majority, and I expect that the various groupings will explain their positions during the debate. What's the danger of the kind of attitude that we're now presenting is that it embraces so far, and it becomes easily non-obligatory. In addition, when we add up to such a wide approach angle, the focus may be blurred and also moved from important areas to more peripheral parts of the setting. There is also a danger that we will spend too much time in areas where there are other authorities with the primary responsibility. This has gradually become a common technique of Norwegian policy, where the different political levels are related. We must avoid that in this situation, because the situation is too serious for it. All political levels share a shared responsibility. I am pleased that an overall committee agrees with the analysis in the setting. Unlike the message, the setting is clear that if a real grip is not done, we are faced with a situation where we will have a great shortage of teachers in the years to come. Point by point, the Committee points to areas where the communication is too optimistic and too critical. This applies to the annual work effort of those who are in school. We see that we have an increasing proportion of women, and that affects the annual work effort. We know that. There's the government for optimism. We also see that the proportion of older teachers is increasing. With older teachers, we mean them from 50 years up. It may be wrong to call them older, but, at least, the proportion is increasing 50 years and up. It will mean a great departure in the next few years. We have also pointed out that competence reform will have implications for the demand for teachers. That's why there's reason to look at the situation with concern if we can't do the right thing. I'm going to point out three key areas, which, in my opinion, are the most important in the coming years. Two of the areas are supported by a majority. It goes on hourly resources to each school, and it goes on an embellishment of our centralistic system – the work distribution system. The third area is pay. A majority now asks the Government to come back with proposals for a minimum number of hours to each school. This is an old, good SV proposal that we have raised over and over again, at the latest in the budget for the current year. I'm glad that a majority of the committee, consisting of the Workers' Party and the government parties, is now ready that we need to get a minimum number of hours to ensure the equivalent education offer – and now I'm not talking about the single school, I'm talking about the equivalent education offer. Differences are so large that the Storting has to introduce a minimum number of hours to ensure the equivalent training offer. In the setup that we see for ourselves, we're going to get a minimum of hours for each school, and it's going to have to be based on class numbers, student numbers, and resources are going to have to be spent on development work in the individual school. Our response to teachers and schools when we demand greater local freedom, new teaching methods and progress in using the local freedom contained in the curricula is that we must guarantee a minimum of one hour, either by law or by regulations. Secondly, the majority are aware that each school must have greater freedom to organise training locally. We have a school that's centralized in the way you define working time. There's a need to soften up in this. The majority are clear that these are agreements, and we're not going to interfere in agreements, but we're going to give clear signals to the parties to the agreement that something has to be done here to get the local creativity, the local commitment, that can develop the school. And when we guarantee a minimum hourly resource, either through law or regulations, it must be open to teachers to accept the challenge of greater local freedom to organize education. And then maybe the most important thing, what goes on pay. We know – and this doesn't have to be a social economist to know – that there's a link between pay and recruitment. The Research Report of the Institute for Societal Research has shown that wages are important for those who are trained teachers and who are in an option situation – whether they should choose to enter school or whether to choose other professions. We also know that pay affects the young people who are faced with a choice: Should we choose teacher training, or should we choose something else? And if we want to influence this, and we want to get more into school, pay is the most effective tool that will work both in the short and long term. This has taken the consequences away from SV and Right. We have made a concrete proposal saying that the relative wage level needs to be raised. In other words, it simply means that, in the years to come, teachers must have a higher wage growth than that of other groups. This is not an expression that we feel sorry for the teachers, that the teachers are particularly hurt, but this is a result of the fact that we have to get more teachers into school, and we have to get more young people to choose the teaching profession. The majority didn't want to be involved in this. They have a formulation that the pay of teachers must be competitive. Yesterday we had a discussion about the difference between comments and proposals for decisions. It is clear that this should have been implemented, it should have been in the form of decisions. This is not to interfere in wage negotiations, it is to take responsibility and give clear signals in an area that is completely central. Finally, I'm sorry that a majority now goes in to remove the rule that there should be two first-class educators when there are more than 18 students. This was an important provision that we got into the training law two years ago, and now the majority chooses to remove it. I'm sorry, and I'm asking those who are about to make this decision, mind their own business. I address the joint proposal from the SV and the Right and the proposals on which the SV and the Workers' Party stand together.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e256	The representative Rikvam has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e263	The rapporteur stated that there were two areas that were very important. One was a work schedule and the other was a salary, as I perceived it. In both cases, he stressed that the parties to the agreement were responsible and would also handle this. In the course of today's debate, we will probably have more articles that relate to both the principles of the freedom of negotiation and the leadership of the Stortinget, but the rapporteur stressed that the SV and the Right now come up with concrete proposals relating to competitive pay. But I must allow myself to ask what is contained in the specific proposal, when some lines in front of the proposal say the following: ‘These members do not take a position in this way on annual or subsequent years’ wage negotiations or the ways in which they are required to ensure that teachers are paid competitively.’ That is an interesting comment, and I would like to hear the representative, Mr Requam, clarify what he is putting into the concrete proposal that has now been put forward by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e273	Let me make it clear that there were three - not just two - areas that I underlined as central: it was wages, it was the smallest hourly resource, and that was what goes on more freedom locally to organize education. I see this in a close context, and I should like to see it done in the future negotiations. I recognise that this is a matter for the social partners, i.e. what goes on pay, what goes on working time regulations, reading obligations, etc. The main responsibility for this lies with the social partners. But that must not prevent us, when we are now discussing teacher recruitment, from expressing clear and strong views on what is necessary to ensure enough teachers for school in the years to come. It is our responsibility – it is we who adopt the plans. We are adopting the curricula, and we are laying down the framework for the education sector. Then we also have to watch and help get enough people in, so that we are able to realize these plans. What we say about competitive pay means simply that in the years to come, teachers – without defining it for the year’s tariff settlement, for the next year’s tariff settlement, or possibly other ways in which this has to happen – have to get a higher wage increase than other groups. And as I said, it's not because we see particular sin on the teachers, but it's simply because this is the most effective way we have to get enough teachers into school. We know the roles, who is responsible for the different parts, but we give the clear signal to the payroll negotiators for the state sector that they have to work out the payroll so that we can achieve this goal: to secure enough teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e285	As the President knows, there are many skilled teachers in the Norwegian school, but there are too many poor too. There is a strong need for new rules that can make it possible to get rid of the worst teachers in school. The Progress Party will therefore present today proposals for a strong liberalisation of the protection against dismissal of teachers, which can be read in the setting. We believe that the teaching profession is so important to society and the growing family that you have to make especially strict demands on the teachers. Today, however, the opposite is the case in Norway. Teachers are one of the few professional groups that are almost unassessed in job relationships and that it is almost impossible to kick if they do a bad job. Although serious complaints are often made to some teachers, the result is almost never that teachers have to stop. As a rule, the bad teachers continue as before, or they are moved to other schools. Some improvements have been made with regard to the teachers employed since 1 August last year, but still the importance of the teaching profession is not reflected in the legislation. I am amazed that the rapporteur has not chosen to put this issue on the agenda in connection with the handling of this communication. The party wants more stringent requirements for teachers. These should be followed up with the introduction of mandatory teacher evaluation by parents, school management and pupils — when they become old enough to participate in an evaluation. In addition, an independent school inspectorate system and more general measures should be put in place to address the professional level of each school and class, for example. publication of grades. My question to the President-in-Office is: How long does he think it is reasonable that the school should have special treatment in the field of evaluation and an employment protection that puts the teachers in front of the students?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e300	Teachers shall have no employment security other than that of other groups — nor do they have it. In general, they follow the provisions of the Working Environment Act. It is those who regulate working life in general, including in the case of teacher groups. This line from Ulf Erik Knudsen shows that he is poorly informed about what is going on in Norwegian school — and it is allowed to express it from this pulpit. We know there's a lot of school-based assessment going on around the schools. Many schools have systematicised this evaluation work, with different partners in the school community involved and carrying out this assessment. It's about parents, it's about teachers, and it's about students. And we in SV want this to develop further. That's a good way to evaluate the learning work. But it's obvious that the Advance Party and SV disagree here. We are committed to looking at the learning process and the learning work itself, while the Progress Party is committed to looking at the character and publication of characters. Characterisation is a poor way of assessing the work done, and it is particularly bad in relation to the curricula that we have developed. The character system is a poor indicator of the value of the work that has taken place. We want to develop a new character system with a new way of assessing it, and we want to develop what is going on in school-based assessment. Also among the teachers there are people who are not good enough, but we don't believe in general opening up to make it easier to get rid of them. We don't think that's the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e311	In the debate on teacher recruitment, the Socialist Left has contributed to making pay central. The representative, Rikvam, gave a slightly broader presentation of the recruitment challenge in his article, and I am pleased about that. I agree with all three points mentioned by Mr Rikvam – both in terms of resources, in terms of job distribution and employment agreements, and in relation to the importance of wages for recruitment to the profession. I am also pleased that the rapporteur is with the government parties when he points out that the overall working situation will have a major impact on recruitment. Experimental activities with different models of allocation of resources to school are desirable, but it is, in our opinion, a little too early to conclude on what these trials will result, and which models will be most appropriate to ensure adequate resources in primary school. I think the case rapporteur has done a good job in the committee and in relation to creating the majority necessary to get more action to improve the recruitment situation. But when the SV in the debate has so far made pay to the centre and promotes a proposal here, I actually feel that they are directly intervening in wage negotiations, by instructing one party. But the remark, as the representative Kristiansen pointed out in his reply to Rolf Reikvam, is a little unclear. I do not think the representative Rikvam answered Kristiansen's question: what does the proposal to SV mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e318	The instruction of the Government has gradually become common on the part of the Storting. And next week, at least we have two major issues where the government is to be instructed – we have the IT Fornebu case, and we have the gas power plant. I believe that neither the Workers' Party nor the other parties have any problem in instructing the Government to take specific action in the specific matters. But when we get to what's going on with teacher recruitment and teacher pay, all of a sudden it's going to be very hard. We're not going to instruct the Government, but we're going to give a clear and unambiguous signal to the Government that in the coming tariff negotiations, that is. to the spring, possibly in other ways if necessary, to facilitate a run so that we ensure the teacher's recruitment to the school in the years to come. It is quite clear if one reads this proposal, that competitive pay means that teachers must have a stronger wage growth than other groups. And it's simply the simple realization that we don't get enough teachers, and we know that this is the best-functioning tool. As I said, we don't want to instruct, but we want to give a clear lead to those who are going to negotiate pay on behalf of the state. This is also a very important signal to the teachers' groups to create motivation and enthusiasm, to the effect that we in the Stortinget take our responsibility seriously, that politicians take their responsibility seriously and that this is the most effective tool we have to get enough teachers at school. And for the third time, this isn't because the teachers are particularly hurt, but it's because the school is getting particularly bad because you don't get enough teachers there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e328	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e331	For the Workers' Party, this is one day with a certain joy – I say a certain joy, because we have not completed everything on all points. But I hope the setting we are finishing today will ensure new recruitment to the school and ensure the teachers who are in Norwegian school today, conditions that make them continue there. For the Workers' Party, it has been very important to go beyond what has been related to the media debate, which has been largely limited to pay issues. I'll get into that later. But there are a number of other measures that are necessary to ensure what we are looking for from the Labour Party, namely a strong public unit school. There is no doubt that the educational society we are facing is making specific demands on how to further develop Norwegian school and also ensure the school as an attractive job, because the teacher is crucial to whether it is a fully-fledged and good school offer. We now have a time behind us with a significant focus on school and education issues. In the election campaign, the big thing that all parties tried to get the most out of – if I can use that expression – was schooled, and afterwards, I have also registered that a number of teachers at both primary and secondary schools have gone into spontaneous protests against school conditions. I think it's important to stress that what's happening outside this hall is also important things and that characterize both the debate and our settings. I have said that the public school is in a special position in Norway, and that over the last ten years we have had major reform periods with great commitment – let me stress it. It can be manufactured as if there has been no use of money in Norwegian school, but a lot of money has been spent throughout the education system, from kindergarten to university. As elsewhere, the school needs to develop, and tomorrow’s school will focus on both individual skills and ability to cooperate. This is why the Workers' Party will have a further development of a school system that accommodates everyone and where everyone is taught to fit their skills and needs. In a society where knowledge and skills are becoming increasingly important to individuals and to the opportunities of business, education is becoming a key issue when we lay the economic foundation of the welfare state. That's the main part of the Workers' Party's commitment to school. I think it is important and right to stress that, in the context of the vote, the Labour Party presented an action plan which has largely been endorsed by the majority of the Committee. It goes on the resource section, as underlined by the rapporteur. Here we are with SV – so it's about taking the pleasure that we have a majority. We put forward proposals for a framework for newly-trained teachers, who have been given a majority. Unfortunately, upgrading the workplace of teachers did not result in majority voting, nor in the whole school construction situation. On the other hand, we were given a majority to study a sabbatical year for teachers, and the majority emphasise the importance of teachers being given a course of training that has to be distinguished in many ways from that of other groups of occupations. That is the broad consensus. Furthermore, there is also agreement on the need to update teacher training. Perhaps the most important thing we wanted from the Workers' Party was a separate development pot that the schools were to dispose of. It hasn't been the majority for that. But we've been promoting the proposal now, we're going to promote it side by side, and we hope that at some point we'll get in touch with it. Last week a debate – and not least yesterday – on the municipal economy and the role of municipalities in relation to school has been held. On the part of the Labour Party, we have underlined the importance of the partnership between state and municipality, and I must say that after a four-year period in the municipal committee, the debate is still going on again, as if the municipality and state are two very different organisational systems – in many contexts at least. I had hoped that we had managed to get a stronger partnership model, it would have strong positive effects on the school. We have no faith that neither the municipalities nor the state place the resources in a sensible way if it is not done together. Then I'm going to go to what the media debate has been about, and that's pay. I feel that it is important to stress and stick to principles. We have free organisation rights in Norway. We have free negotiating rights in Norway. At the moment when a big deal would intervene and have opinions on the formation of wages that are determined between the parties, I think – not only believe, but I am convinced – that it is of such a nature that the right to negotiate can be jeopardized. The Labour Party has clearly underlined in its position, and for which we have received a majority, the importance of pay for recruitment. We have stressed that there must be a competitive wage if the school is to have access to labour and also maintain the labour force that it has. But it would be a dramatic step – at the moment we put forward a concrete proposal on what the Government is going to do, it was a concrete proposal – to instruct the Government in relation to the forthcoming wage settlement. And I would also expect the Council of State to have some considerations around later today. But at the same time, I am convinced that those who negotiate, on both sides of the table, have taken inward the debate that has preceded the debate that is going on here today, and also what is said in the vote. The majority provide a clear declaration of willingness in relation to the level of wages and their importance for the future. It is with some concern that I hear what the rapporteur says in a line change – if we were to have a majority, he says, that means that teachers have to get more than other professional groups year after year. If it is not a direct lead in relation to the free trial right, then I have probably not got what is in the concept of ‘free trial right’ in Norway. I record that SV and Right agree on this, but the right goes considerably beyond what SV does – it should also be said. When you read the comments on the Right, you see that they are prepared to take the contract work from the teachers and design it in the Right's ideological view. There is at least no doubt about it when you read the setting. As I have underlined, we have seen pay as very important, but we have also proposed a number of other measures in the setting, which will be discussed later today, and which we look at in the long term as well as as so important for having at all a public school that is able to meet the requirements and tasks it is going to solve.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e362	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e365	As I see it, it may not be that all teachers deserve an increase in pay, but the good teachers should get their pay up sharply. In England, skilled teachers pay up to half a million dollars a year, which is 200,000 dollars above the normal maximum wage that you can hope to achieve in Norway. There is a flexible pay system for the school system, and further flexibility awaits. I feel sure that the lack of individual wage fixing is one of the main reasons for the school's recruitment problems. An MMI survey — presented in the Week of Business and Social Affairs on 26 November 1999, which I am in the hands of here — shows that more than half of the workers aged 25–39 are clear opponents of the pay system at school. They themselves want to have a decisive influence on their wage development. When more than half of the population initially excludes a profession because of the pay system, it is obvious that recruitment problems are encountered. I therefore ask why not the Workers' Party, as its sister parties in other countries, among other things. England, can help reward teachers for their efforts, initiatives, educational creativity and quality of their work. I hope the answer won't be that it's impossible to distinguish between skilled and less skilled teachers, because it's obviously wrong. Teacher competence can be established if we choose to upgrade the systems available for evaluation — through school management evaluation, through parental and student evaluation and through independent inspectorial schemes, and we can look at the results shown by the individual classes. If you look at these relationships in the context, you'll get a clear picture of what the individual teacher's qualities are.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e380	If the representative Knudsen had had some insight into the agreement of the teachers, much of this question could have been answered – if he had read it. Because there are clear opportunities in a development that has taken place in recent years, precisely on local wage formation, which the parties themselves can handle. What I've been trying to say, and I'm going to go on with it all day the times I have the word, is that the principles relating to wage formation will not make sense to the Workers' Party, either in sum or in relation to the contract work, but we register and have enough knowledge to know that the flexibility that many are looking for, it is already there. It is presented as having about two sentences in which everything is centrally determined. This is not the case, and it is also important to stress in relation to the debate that some people are trying to raise, namely to pulverize the works of agreement further than the representative, Mr Knudsen, may have said in this reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e387	The representative of Kristiansen referred to the Workers' Party's proposal in the wording as an action plan. He must then have relatively brief requirements for what an action plan is. And it must be said that the level of ambition has become fairly moderate when even the proposal to centralise father schemes at each school is presented as an action plan. At least it is not an action plan to reduce the central management of the Norwegian school system, when raising such questions at national level. I noticed that the representative of Kristiansen referred to the Right's comments on salary as if you wanted to put the contractual system out of action. The representative Kristiansen made no attempt to justify that claim, and it was certainly wise of him – it cannot be justified. It's amazing that you've got the formalities so high in the majority's consciousness when it comes to arguing why in the mention of pay policy as an instrument, you've decided to talk with your mouth closed instead of opening it. That's rarely going to be particularly clear talk of. It must therefore be interesting to get the representative of Kristiansen to explain what he thinks in his view when he says that it is a prerequisite for recruiting the school that the teaching profession receives a competitive salary. I assume that it cannot mean that the majority believe that the teaching profession should be put down in wages, relative to the groups you say it is natural to compare with. Logically, it can only mean one thing: what SV and Right say in plain text in their proposal, that the relative pay of teachers needs to be improved. But why can't you say it straight out instead of mumbling with a closed mouth?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e396	The majority's view that appears in the setting related to pay, I don't think I've been perceived as muttering by those who have taken hold of it outside this hall. The views of the Labour Party and the majority on the pay question against the teacher recruitment message have had a broad media coverage. If the Right has difficulty understanding what we mean, I think it's going to be a problem that stays in the Right. We have clearly stated that we have put forward a declaration of will, and underlined the points that are on a competitive salary, which are on a reputation for the profession, and which are also on the verge of gaining an attractive profession in the long term. If that's not clear enough, I don't know. But at least I am convinced that the negotiating parties will know what we have meant when we have emphasised – both in writing and orally – what the majority stands for. And I might be surprised if the minority doesn't join the majority in voting during the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e401	On the first page of the Evening Post on February 23, the day before the suspension, it says that the Workers' Party will give the teachers billions. Within the article, this is nuanced – to cover several aspects of the school. On the same day, the new parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party, Jens Stoltenberg, from this chair, says that the Workers' Party goes much further than the centre parties in the position of teachers' recruitment. This must be due to a misunderstanding, I thought when I heard it. For there is only one proposal that does not coincide with the Workers' Party and the Centre, namely the proposal asking for an overview of how the Labour Inspectorate's indoor climate regulations have been followed up. Such an overview does not cost more than the work required by such forms! I would like to stress that the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties are in fact united on the proposals that will require increased resources for municipalities. And we have to establish that it is the municipal economy that is crucial for an equivalent training offer to all students, as it was also problematic in St.meld. No 28 for 1998-99. In the ‘Political Quarter’ yesterday, the director of the Committee Grete Knudsen, on questions about whether the Workers' Party will be in favour of ear marking, said that the Stortinget is in favour of a minimum standard for each class. This isn't exactly right. In the proposal we are to adopt today, the Stortinget Government is asking, in the context of experiments conducted with different allocation models, to make proposals for hourly resources for each school. This is to give the necessary freedom to each school. So to the question. There have been very different signals about what the Workers' Party believes about ear-marked products. While KS, led by Halvdan Skard from the Workers' Party, and several – very many – rapporteurs from the Workers' Party, want less earring, the Workers' Party in the Committee, together with LO leader and central board member Yngve Hågensen, has gone a long way in wanting to be heard by the school, cf. newspaper reports of the meeting held with the Committee some time ago. What does the Workers' Party even mean? And what does the representative Rune Kristiansen think about this? Is the Workers' Party concerned that increased bonds of funds can suffocate local self-government and thus pose a threat to local democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e412	I registered during the hearing and in the hearing opinion of the Norwegian Teachers' Team and the Landsorganisation that they asked the Committee to consider the re-introduction of the designation. From the Labour Party we have said that it is not appropriate to reintroduce earmarks, as it was before 1986 if I am not completely wrong. But in my view, however, we have to take over what is now happening in Municipality-Norway in relation to what they want from Stortinget. It's not just about spending more money in the municipal economy, but I think it actually also requires a much stronger interaction between the municipalities and the state, and that's what we in the Workers' Party have meant in our position when we talk about a partnership arrangement between the municipalities and the state. The fact that minimum standards can then also be introduced that will lead to a minimum of governance from the Storting side is not unnatural in that context. But here we have the processing of a message, and we ask the government to develop and evaluate new models to ensure exactly what we want. It's nothing but what the Workers' Party has done in this context, but in our view, it's important principles that we draw up. We believe that we will ensure the school a stronger predictability and strengthen the school overall if we find new models that ensure the schools as we wish. What we're experiencing now is that the school is in many ways the loser in the municipal budget context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e417	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e420	The Progress Party is very committed to ensuring that Norway has well-qualified teachers in the short and longer term to care for the education of children and young people. We are deeply concerned about the developments you have seen, with declining search for the profession and an ever-negative focus around the school in the social debate. It appears that the time is ripe for profound and fundamental changes in both organisation, content, pay and personnel policies and the physical working environment in schools. However, these profound changes are absent with regard to the comments and proposals of the majority. You choose instead as the ostrich to stick your head in the sand and flick on the system you have, without taking the consequences of the negative developments. The point of view of the Progress Party is that the most important thing to do for the school is to change the funding system. We want a school funded by a state prize or a school system, where the schools in a free market can compete for the students. This would obviously lead to a general quality improvement across the school sector. However, we note that today primary and secondary schools are financed from municipal and county budgets, and that the priority of the school is therefore mainly up to local politicians. If they choose to spend money on municipal cultural actions, on cultural houses, on building new town halls or on other municipal performance projects, there will necessarily be less money for the school. Local politicians therefore have a central responsibility in prioritising school. The party of progress sees the school and the teachers as one of the most important, perhaps the most important, occupations in society. Working with children and young people directly affects the development of society and our future. We must therefore make particularly strict demands both on those who are going to take this education and on their effectiveness in school. In this setting, the Progress Party has therefore called for a stricter evaluation of school activities and for a strong liberalisation of the protection against dismissal for those who show that they do not master at school. This should be a matter of course, and it has been introduced in many other countries, but not in Norway, due to the majority of the population, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Parties. Much of the debate on the teacher recruitment message has been about salary. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the general salary level and the salary level are in relation to other occupational groups that the social partners should take care of. However, we will call for a thorough reform of the pay system at school. We believe it is necessary to facilitate a pay system that motivates competent people to apply for the teaching profession and to remain in this profession. A study that I referred to earlier today, carried out by the Market and Media Institute, the MMI, shows that a majority of today's youth are negative to enter professions where individual performance and capacity are not premiered. It is therefore necessary to have a flexible pay system that rewards extra effort and knowledge. This may include, inter alia: in the case of more flexible schemes and in the case of local wage determinations. Of course, in addition to pay policy, we need to focus on the working environment of teachers. It is necessary to focus on the follow-up of newly educated and on continuing education and training, in particular in ICT. But the school as a workplace is not just about physical work environment and wages. It's also about school content. The Progress Party believes that a free and flexible school with positive competition will increase the attractiveness of the school as a workplace. In addition, necessary corrections must be made so that we ensure calmness and order at school and reintroduce what the teachers seem to have lost in the form of authority. Clearly, school should be a place for children and young people to learn. These were some of the more general assessments of the Progress Party on the issue we are discussing today. I want to use the rest of my post to focus on some other single themes in this setting. As will be seen in the suspension, the Progress Party and the Right agree on both comments and proposals in raising the admission requirements for general teacher training. We know that the teacher's competence has an impact on the quality of education. The Progress Party is also concerned that a greater proportion of teachers should be able to take training abroad. This is particularly true in relation to subjects such as mathematics, ICT, physics and foreign languages. There is also a special advantage to education abroad, namely to acquire knowledge of the language and culture of each country. I would like to refer here to the comments and suggestions we have on this in the vote. A problem arising from the equal pay system currently operating in school is that the pay benefits of teachers in relation to the costs of living, housing, etc. are very different geographically. In some counties, especially in the districts, teacher pay may be almost acceptable as a result of low housing costs, while in high housing prices, wages are very low. This is also a problem that can be solved with more flexible pay systems and local negotiations. We also have a proposal in this context in terms of greater geographical differentiation of teacher pay. Now it is not just a big message about teacher recruitment that is on the agenda of today's debate. There are also a number of Document Nos. Eight proposals on related issues. Some brief comments on these: In the case of Innst. S. No 119, on equivalent school offers, my party colleague Ursula Evje will take this into account in his post, but I would particularly like to highlight our proposal for independent school supervision in this matter. In the case of Innst. S. No 118, on the improvement of funding for further education in education, we will underline the professional level represented by teachers with a main course of study. It is very important to ensure that these see the school as an attractive workplace. However, we are uncertain whether the proposal that the Right addresses in this context is the way to go. We have more faith in a general regulatory framework. In the case of Innst. S. No 115, on measures to strengthen primary education, our assessment is that the proposal being promoted in this context is sensible, and we have therefore endorsed the Right proposal in this context. I would like to address the suggestions made by the Progress Party in the voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e456	Ulf Erik Knudsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e461	The representative, Knudsen, said in his speech that the most important measure of getting a better school is to change the way the school is financed. The promotion party wants a state-owned price system or a school-based system in a free market, i.e. that each student, or in practice each parent or parent, is provided with a check on a certain amount. Then you can go shopping in different schools, and if you're rich, you can put extra money in those schools for which there's a lot of searching. But just changing the funding system won't lead to more money for school, if you don't add up to very large checks, so I can't understand how such a system can lead to more resources for school, and I can't understand how it can lead to a better school. In addition, the Progress Party believes that it is very important to achieve a strong liberalisation of the protection against denunciation. I don't quite understand the logic that there's going to be more teachers that you should be able to tell them off. It needs to be much better to invest in continuing training, building skills and ensuring that the school is an attractive job. There must be much better measures to recruit teachers. The party wants a school with more control. They say they want more freedom, but what they really want is more control, more exams, the same exams all over the country, so that the students are measured after exactly the same tests, they want more grades, more punishment and more rehab. I have to say that I can't understand how the Progress Party can think that there's going to be a better school out of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e468	The representative claims that with the Party's school system, people who are rich will be able to buy for a better education. That's actually the result of the school policy we've had under the Workers' Party. Now we have a funding scheme where private schools get covered 65-85 pst. of their public expenditure, and those with extra money, may go to private schools as long as they have the money to pay the fee. The Progress Party put forward before Christmas a proposal in the Stortinget, which the Labour Party voted against, to get equal treatment between private and public schools so that there would be no difference between those who have a good economy and those who have a bad economy. The fact that it's going to be easier to quit teachers will lead to fewer teachers, yes, but those teachers who are so bad that we need to quit them, I don't think we need to go to school. In addition, when it's hard to quit teachers, we send out a signal to people that this is a profession that anyone can get started in, and where anyone can stay as long as you like, because you don't get fired. If learning becomes difficult, the status of the teacher profession will increase. It's quite obvious!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e475	The representative Knudsen stated that the Progress Party wants a completely different funding model for Norwegian school. I perceive both the comment and the posts clearly so that the Progress Party wants a market-based school. They want freed schools, free choice of schools and competition between schools, and believe that it will automatically and itself trigger creativity, innovation and educational development, and also point out that unit-price financing will contribute to providing the necessary funding and resources for the school. The Christian People's Party does not share that view, because such a priced financing does not necessarily provide a resource allocation that benefits those students who need it the most, because the need for resources is known to be different between students. A financial instrument is needed to take this into account, and a financial instrument is also needed to ensure that there are different costs associated with schooling in our country. The second part of Progress is that they want to reward good teachers, and that's why they are also in favour of individual wages. The same idea is linked to the market-based school. In the note, the Progress Party says that: ‘if ‘small’ individual remuneration will have a beneficial effect — ‘much’ individual remuneration will have a very beneficial effect’. I agree that within certain frameworks negotiated between the parties it should be possible to create a little more dynamism in the pay negotiation system. But how can the Progress Party claim that ‘much’ individual remuneration will have a beneficial effect on recruitment? I think the recruitment problem is due to things other than the very lack of individual remuneration.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e493	It could have been tempting to make a longer statement on the excellence of competition. It's not a direct unknown principle, at least not in economic theory, and that Lyngstad should know, that competition tends to get people to tighten up, to increase quality. Lack of competition is likely to have the opposite effect. In relation to the school-checking model of the Progress Party, I have explained a number of times earlier from this pulpit, even when the representative Lyngstad has been present, that in such a model, it is obvious that special, weak groups and the special regional trends that may prove to be extra costly have to be taken into account. With regard to the reason why we are calling for a flexible pay system and that this will affect recruitment, it should be quite clear from the MMI survey that I referred to was presented in Business Week on 26 November 1999 and that more than half of the employees in the 25-39 age group are clear opponents of the pay system that exists in the Norwegian school today. They themselves want to have a decisive influence on what they get in pay. And it's not exactly that it's quite unusual in Norway with individual pay. In approx. 80-90 pst. business is the way it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e502	The representative Knudsen takes on the ostrich's rather special way of being when he doesn't want to see the problems. I notice that the Progress Party does not want to be involved and take the consequences of what we all know, that pay is the most important recruitment tool. Let's just leave it, because the fronts are pretty clear. But I thought that the Progress Party and the Knudsen also in two other central areas were somewhat similar to the bird I had previously shown, and I am thinking about this with quality and central control in the Norwegian school. When it comes to quality, the Right has the consequence of it in one of the proposals that is before us today. Healthy public health and scientific research, including: from the representative Knudsen’s home country, it is clear that there is a clear link between the skills of the teachers and the learning outcomes of the students. For example, several lecturers give a better result. said from the High Sphere in Buskerud. When the representative Knudsen and the Progress Party do not want to be on the right's proposal to do something concrete about this, but instead they say that they have more faith in 'general legislation', as he said in his post, I understand very little. When it comes to central government, Norway is the most central government school country in the world. Here, the bulk of the population, including the Progress Party, will now come with a new central government, which Right of course goes against. It is not a human being who is in doubt that good fathering is important in order for new teachers to easily enter a system. But how in all days should a person interpret it when it is said that ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate fathering arrangements’? So, if you want one in law, should one in regulation, should one with central control impose what many schools do of their own free will?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e511	It's great that a number of schools do this of their own free will. We want as many schools as possible to do that, and preferably all of them, and that is why we have been involved in the proposal for a decision here. We think that a father's arrangement can be a good follow-up for the newly educated, and that was one of the things I focused on in my post. With regard to our view on Right Document No. Eight proposals on this special scheme for the financing of studies for supplementary education, I presented them in my main report, and will refer to it. Then to the Progress Party's view of pay. When we're not on the Right's proposal in this area, it's because we don't want to mix the roles in the way that Right wants. We have an understanding that pay problems are something we have to deal with, and of course we have personal opinions about the general level of pay and the level of pay compared to other occupational groups, but these are matters that the social partners should take care of. What we want to focus on is reforming the pay system, which we think is timely for the Storting to have an opinion on. And we also believe that there should be provision for a pay system that motivates competent people to apply for and remain in the teaching profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e520	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e523	The role of teachers is changing, more because of the reverse school policy thinking of experimentation and development in individual schools than from top-down reforms. This is a positive recruitment potential if we are able to disseminate opportunities for young people seeking education, while at the same time providing established teachers with better development opportunities. We are pleased that the Stortinge today says that the possibility of introducing a ‘sabbath year’ for teachers should be investigated. The means of continuing training for teachers will be further increased in the years to come, which has been the highest on the list of teachers' wishes for many years. The Christian People's Party believes that the measures proposed by the Government to recruit teachers to school will work positively, and the Stortinget has joined all proposals. We have many teachers without approved education. Many of these are well qualified, but lack practical education. The Ministry may now work on improving the regional distribution of such training and curtailment schemes. With many older teachers, the school may be in need of teachers if recruitment measures do not work. And we have to follow this closely. A situation with far more female than male teachers may seem unfortunate, both at the recruitment and at the students who are not getting valuable contact with teachers of both sexes. The government will also put in place measures here, and also to recruit schoolleaders. Norwegian Teachers’ Student Team and the National Association of Students held a conference in January this year called ‘I want to become a teacher’. The report lists more than 20 positive responses to why participants chose to take teacher training, ten-to-twelve different occupations or workplaces where they would like to use their education, and more than ten suggestions on what can be done to get young people to learn. They have many good suggestions to get the best possible teacher education, and they say, 'We must turn it negative to the positive, and we will have a change of attitude. Teachers have faces in society, you politicians have to show us that we are attractive." It will be Christian People's Party and do it. Therefore, we believe that wages are an important factor in recruiting the profession and maintaining teachers in the profession. At the same time, we respect the fact that the social partners are negotiating wage agreements. We want teacher training to be in line with developments in primary school and to qualify for the job to be done, and want the department to assess the education and come back to Stortinget with the case. Now we want to give opportunities to try out different ways to organise the educational years. We will let the universities take responsibility for the follow-up of trained teachers, and that it will facilitate fathering schemes for new teachers. The Christian People's Party will give teachers greater room for action and simplify the contract, so that there is more room for creativity in each school. The school of today also needs skills other than pedagogical skills and needs to open up different occupational groups to give students a comprehensive offer. The Christian People's Party will therefore also release the requirement for two first-class educators when there are more than 18 students in the class, so that the school itself can assess which skills, as well as a pedagogist, will be the best. We want to keep resources in step, but we see that in some cases an opening in the law can be more appropriate and also increase the adult density. The most important thing is that students’ needs come first. The central parties have constantly been confronted with the purpose of the Adult Declaration to lower the maximum number of pupils in the secondary schools to 28. The Christian People's Party is pleased that there is instead an experiment with other models for allocating hours to high school. We believe that the school is better served to find new models for the allocation of hours and resources. In the setting we say that the tests should be extended. This will increase teacher density and provide greater opportunities for teaching in groups and individuals where the needs of schools and students are greatest. We do not want to now lock a model for the allocation of hours or fixed minimum standards, but a fairer system for the allocation of resources between the students and the schools. The teaching profession is one of the most important professions in our society. The teacher is extremely important to the students when acquiring knowledge, skills and attitudes. Complaints by teacher organisations and black-painting in the media do not have a positive effect on education-seeking young people. Respect for, and positive mention of, those who are in — and choose to enter — the teaching profession is important to increase the status of the teaching profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e558	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e561	The Labour Party and Government Parties agree on most of the issues of school policy, including in this setting here. I wish we could be equally united in the case of gas power plants. [[muttering in the hall]] But at one point, we don't quite agree, and it goes on using resources in school. Here are major problems, and both through the Teachers' Team's studies, and now the Department's, we have been confirmed that the municipalities have greatly reduced their resources to the school in recent years. We've discussed earmarked grants to correct this, but we're not in favour of that, nor is the Working Party, but we might want a combination model. We want to assess a system where each school receives a development pot to stimulate development and skills development to make the school more attractive. We also want the state to contribute to the upgrading of school buildings, the physical conditions in school, through a partnership. The municipalities do not do this alone, they must have help in a transitional period, at least, to do that job. That is why it is very regrettable, I think, that the centre parties could not be involved in the proposal where we are asking the Government to submit proposals on this. I think it's just that way that we can do something in the foreseeable future to improve the working situation of both teachers and students at school and to renovate all the school buildings that are due today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e569	Yes, we would like to welcome a consensus on the gas power issue, which would have been very nice. So to pot for development work in the schools. We in the Christian People's Party have not wanted to support such an arrangement, but refer to the development funds put on the table in budgetary terms, and that we have said that we will continue to increase the funds for development work. In the case of school buildings, this is primarily the responsibility of the municipality, and we are in that context more concerned with the content of the school and by giving teachers good opportunities for education and being creative in their work. We do not agree with the partnership arrangement between the State and the municipality to which the Workers' Party is now adding.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e578	I am actually a little relieved that the representative Stråtveit did not agree, unconditionally at least, that the state would go in and do the municipality's job. Her reason for not agreeing is a completely different matter. But when school buildings fall due to poor priorities of local politicians in the municipality, the state should not simply go in and say that this is good, you get money to do both. What I was going to raise a question about is a little bit based on what the representative Lyngstad from the Christian People's Party said about market-based schools. I thought that the market for schools was the users -- real influence for parents on behalf of their children, based on the law we have actually established here in the house. When I look at what he has said and done over time – and I assume that he is speaking on behalf of the Christian People's Party – I am wondering what he is saying in the Trønder-Avisa on 26 February. It says that he is concerned about the suture of the teachers, that he wants a more flexible local pay system, and that the great problem of the teachers is that they have a pay system completely without dynamics. Dynamics is like something that belongs to the market, and I hope that the Christian People's Party will leave a little behind. I would ask the representative of the Christian People's Party to answer just how they can ask for dynamics and differentiated flexible system, and then vote it down when the Progress Party proposes it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e585	The President has some doubts as to whether this reply was addressed to the representative of Lyngstad or the representative of Stråtveit, but as the change of line is to the representative of Stråtveit, he is given a reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e588	The reply was addressed to the representative of Stråtvei.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e593	Yes, I'll try to answer that a little bit. Dynamics in relation to teacher pay are something we are concerned about, and we are pleased with the core tariff agreement that was adopted in May 1999 and which provides the parties with more tools both to improve pay levels and to recruit teachers and to keep them in school, and we will follow it and see what the effect of it can be. We have also said something about this by simplifying the contract work, which is to give a greater space for action and more creativity in school. I don't know if I'm going to say so much more, but we see an opportunity here and a room in relation to the teachers, also in terms of working time relative to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e602	We appreciate from the Right part of the priorities for which the government parties are now in favour, among other things. to strengthen the commitment to continuing training and leave arrangements. In particular, it is gratifying in the light of the budgetary agreement reached by the Government Parties with the Workers' Party a few months ago, which gave a completely different priority to spending 100 million. kr on the school holiday scheme and 100 million. kr on a textbook loan scheme in secondary school. It is good to have a better idea of what is important to give priority to the future of the school. The representative of Stråtveit said that it is important to speak well about the teaching profession and the school. Yeah, I'm sure it is. But it is still likely that "not a thousand Words/sig prints like a Making Track". One of the studies presented in the Committee is a study conducted by Opinion on young people's views on the profession of teachers and their assessment of their future careers, and the speech of these figures is very clear. There are very few young people in the current age who are considering investing in the teaching profession at all. But there is one number that is particularly dramatic and that stands out: it concerns young people from families where one or both of the parents are teachers – there is virtually no one who can even imagine the possibility of going into school. How does the representative of Stråtvei interpret it? Is there not reason to believe that the crisis is significantly greater than what the Government has taken into account in its big message? And let me end by asking the same question as I asked the representative of Kristiansen: How does the representative of Kristiansen interpret the term «competitive pay» in the teaching profession?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e611	I almost want to be a little bit personal, because we're two sisters who produce seven or eight teachers, so that nobody wants it, I can't understand. In the case of continuing training, I cannot quite understand what the representative on the pay side says. There is an absolute commitment to continuing education in the budget this year, so what he says, I can't say is right. Nor can I fully understand what the Right says that they will raise the income requirement for the apprenticeship. That they're going to get the status, I can kind of understand, but to recruit teachers they're going to use it in the situation we're in right now, and as it looks like we're going to be for a few years, I can't quite understand that. In terms of pay and competitive pay, it is clear that in the Christian People's Party we also understand and understand that pay means something both when you are in a profession and when you are going to apply for a profession. We understand that, and that's why we say something about it, but still we insist that the social partners are negotiating wage agreements. Wages are happy to talk in pictures. I almost want to use the image that he has used many times even in terms of salary. He's been criticizing the center games because they're in for a bet, but not a jump. I have a feeling that the wage has taken the bet and he has jumped, but he has not landed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e622	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e625	We've got a lot of input from different parts of society in connection with the teacher recruitment message. One of the strongest impressions on both me and the rest of the Right is a performance by all the political youth organisations in Finnmark who have the title "We don't want to get stupider". They pointed to the fact that these are too many unskilled. Several teachers in Finnmark have a level that is at the level of further education or lower, and children and young people in Finnmark have, as a result, both lower school motivation and poorer results than the rest of the country. The situation in Finnmark is so bad that it has been found to break the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. In Finnmark it is bad, and the Right will therefore promote a concrete proposal for improvements as pure emergency aid to this area. But in addition, and that's the most central thing today, we're afraid that what we see now in Finnmark, what we can experience in the rest of the country as well, is that a major recruitment crisis is on its way into the Norwegian school. Here are several things we have to do to solve the problems, and the Right already suggested when the Storting decided that a teacher recruitment message should be submitted, to focus on pay. We were dissented then, but everyone who has followed the debate knows that this is the most central issue. The majority will not take the consequences of this, but have chosen to make this debate a general school debate. Here's the one-off ball, the inclusive school, and the public and private offerings. All of this is an interesting school policy topic, but it's a little vague and influential from the majority's point of view when what comes out of this debate in the areas that matter to recruitment is very little binding. We are debating four different issues today, and the Right has concrete suggestions in all these matters. Then the question is what we actually want and can do with the problems that are raised here. Everyone says that there is a problem with teacher recruitment, everyone says that pay is important for recruitment, but it is only Right and SV who take the consequence of this by saying something concrete about getting better, then we have to get a relatively higher salary level. Everyone has said, both here and in other contexts, that youth is the most problematic step in the Norwegian elementary school. A lot of elephants think of the youth as being cohesive, where there is little motivation and thus little effect of what is happening. On the right, concrete proposals for the reorganization of the youth stage of the document under consideration today to give students greater freedom of choice and greater chance of professional deepening. We know that especially when we get into our youth, we have a lot of strong theoretical interests, and they should be able to develop them further. Others have interests that go more in a practical direction, and these, too, need to be able to deepen these in adolescence. In addition, all such deepening must be included when recording for further training — this will make it even more meaningful. We have also asked for more expertise for those who teach theory in the youth sphere. We know that this will improve teaching, and good teaching is one of the most motivating for the students who are at this stage. Everyone notes, however, that there is a problem with getting enough lecturers in school. In other words, it has been found by everyone that several lecturers, i.e. several with general and pedagogical supplementary education, give better results, that we have a huge problem with the teachers getting out of Norwegian school, and that there is bad recruitment, especially in the field of real science, but also a lot of other areas are the framework of this. But what happens next? Well, when the Right puts forward concrete proposals for improvement in study funding to get more people with major subjects to go into school, which is all important, what happens then? Yes, the proposal will be annexed to the Minutes. So one won't make a decision. They are not in favour of our proposals, which are aimed at improving student funding, but no one has come up with other measures to improve the situation that everyone sees as serious. Especially interesting in this debate has it been to follow the Labour Party's curvatures back and forth in the time we've worked on the cause. In the election campaign in September the party went its leader, Thorbjørn Jagland, and said, "We want more lecturers in school". When it comes to concrete measures, the same Jagland, who had to work on this, said that he would like to address these issues: ‘and would like to ask questions just before the wage-fixing process,’ he said to the School Focus in September. I thought this was nice, but now that the Labour Party has the chance, and we're just before the paycheck, they won't take the consequences. I don't know where it's been in this debate by Jagland, but I hope some of his people in the hall will be able to answer that. In the same way, the Labour Party went its representative, Rune Kristiansen, out in the Evening Post on February 23rd and promised, among others. concrete money for Norwegian school. It was said here: «Ap. measures include SEK 1.5 billion each year for five years for, inter alia, professional development and post-training.» I thought, "Plots," and I jumped into the chair of joy when I saw the poster in the evening post, and I expect the same Kristiansen or his party traps to come up with concrete suggestions on this in connection with the teacher recruitment message. And I've been waiting, and I've waited with great patience, but not one concrete action, not one concrete ear is coming. It's really nice, even though we're talking about teacher recruitment, or should talk about it, that the Labour Party will now be investing in Norwegian school, but why couldn't this happen all the time in connection with the budget when Right invited to a battle effort, etc. in the case of continuing training. No, then there were other things that were more important for the Workers' Party to come with. So I want to ask for the concrete SEK 1.5 billion, and I look forward to working together in the 2001 budget to give the school a real boost, but unfortunately I'm not too optimistic in that area. I agree with what the spokesperson for the case, the representative Rikvam, said introductory terms: we do not have to measure the situation in Norwegian school. There's a lot of good going on here, there's a lot of teachers doing a lot of hard work here, there's a lot of elephants learning a lot, but there's also a lot of danger here that we're forced to take seriously. That's why this is one of the most important things we can do about recruitment and teacher pay, because the teacher's quality is the only factor that someone has been able to demonstrate works on the level of learning that students have. I also think that we're forced to go in for more differentiated pay systems than we have today. Teacher organisations themselves may have a good share of the debt for the low wage level, as they have not previously been willing to go for a stronger differentiation. One has to differentiate geographically, in subjects, in special people, and then we get the argument against us that there is no possibility of individual pay. We as politicians and elephants, teachers, teachers' organizations and parents know that there are a lot of teachers who make a huge effort towards the students in and outside of school, and who students think with joy for the rest of their lives because they gave them a lot and made a lot of effort. Should we not have the ability to appreciate these teachers, these fires in Norwegian school, in a proper way, a little beyond the smooth crowd that does a good job – I don't understand that. I would otherwise like to present the proposals that Right have on our own, or that we share with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e658	Petter Løvik has drawn up the suggestions he himself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e663	I want to start by addressing the suggestions that I did not include in my main post. This concerns the proposal of the Workers' Party at the Innst. S. No 120 and the proposal distributed in the Chamber. The right has earlier said to me in a line change that they have not provided any opinions that interfere with the contract work for the teachers in Norwegian school, at least what Inge Wohnung said. And now, when I hear the representative, Løvik, explain how one from the right is helping to design what the pay and work agreements for teachers should be, I hardly get it to vote in relation to what appeared in a line change earlier today. Let me be a little bit more specific. A proposal is made to transfer the negotiating responsibility of the teaching staff from the State to the county/municipality of the Progress Party and the Right. Is it true that the Right believes that there is no significant change in the contract work? That's the one question. And the second is: is the Right now in favour of – if you had been given a majority – lifting the acquired professional rights through political decisions here in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e675	The representative, Kristiansen, specifically deals with wages and salaries. And we could also read in the newspaper – in the same post that I quoted from before, as far as I think – that he wants to help make it a plurality for a paylift for the teachers. Then the question that others have been asking is, How do we always interpret the Workers' Party's statement? The Labour Party says that pay is important and that teachers must have a competitive wage. And then I thought, when one has made the premise in this way, that there's only one logical way to do this, simply to say what must be a logical consequence, that in plain text it means that there has to be a relative increase in pay for pedagogical groups in Norwegian school. I want to know a little bit about the difference between these decisions. It's made like there's a big difference, and that's that we take the consequences and say it in plain text. Then ask the representative Kristiansen if it is not an intervention in the contract agency to transfer the negotiating responsibility from the state to the county and municipality. Yeah, it's clear that there's a change that we've been wanting for very many years, that those who are going to pay the teachers are also going to be responsible for negotiating with them. And that there should be something wrong with taking a political decision in that direction and giving them the signals, I am unable to understand with my best will. So to the question of whether we want to intervene in our teachers' professional courses. No, I can't interpret it so it happens by signaling that we want to raise this group. And, as the representative Rikvam also said, we're not doing it because we felt sorry for the teachers, but because we need more skilled, qualified teachers, and then we have to raise the salary. And that there should be an intervention in professional trials, I am too little schooled to understand!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e689	I want to arrest Right Document No. 8 proposals for specific measures to increase the number of main courses of practical education. We know today that of 783 graduates, it is actually only 44 who are applying for practical education. And when it comes to the recording, you only find 22 of these there. This is a pretty scary everyday, and we have to look it in the eye. It is not just special student funding schemes that will help with this. It must be a will to, for example, lecturers, who have the most thorough, longest and most specialised education of all teachers in the school system, get a wage earner who is their own and who reflects the quality and competence they really have. If we can go into a debate with the Right on this basis, we'll do it. Such specific measures – packages for different parts of the country, packages for different occupational groups – often prove to be blows in the air, and have a poor impact on other aspects of this network. And we can't really be involved in it. The action packages for North Norway, for Finnmark/Troms, for six municipalities in Inner Namdalen become part of the same thing, and this is not possible. But if at any time the Right comes up with concrete suggestions to make the teaching profession more attractive to these people, suggestions for clear improvements in pay, etc., then we'd like to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e696	For the right, not only are teacher recruitment questions about quantity, we're going to be missing so many teachers, but there's also a question of quality. This is why we have a proposal, some of which may consider it to be somewhat alarming, to raise the input requirements of the teacher's marbles. We think that those who have barely passed the test of general study competence are not fit to teach in Norwegian school. In the same way, we have taken the consequences of lecturers being, as everyone knows, one of the most important occupational groups among the pedagogical members of the Norwegian school, and we are making proposals for concrete actions in this context. When the Progress Party doesn't want to be involved, but the representative Ursula Evje now comes and says that if we propose wage increases for these groups, they will be with and discuss it, then I don't understand the total logic of the Progress Party this time either. Because if you don't want to talk about pay in general, it's even harder to talk about pay for a small group in Norwegian school. We know that there is a shortage of people with a main course of practical education. Our Document No. Eight proposals are a feasible proposal, and they have been seen in similar actions in several other cases, including: the write-down of loans for those with long-term education. So there's nothing fundamentally new in this. But we are, unlike the rest of the Stortinget, willing to use these tools, because we see that Norwegian school needs the lecturers, who are now going to disappear from Norwegian school, which has a strong professional basis, and who are also willing to use a year more to go into Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e707	The representative Petter Løvik was quite inaccurate when he was going to make his history. The facts are that the right has not even voted in favour of the proposals we have made in the context of tariff settlements. We have taken this into account in interviews both before the settlement in 1998 and before the settlement in 1999, and then the Right vote for the proposals could not, because it was interfering with the settlement of tariffs. We in SV are not trying to express that we have prophetic abilities, but what is our strength is that we can read numbers. We saw the developments that were about to happen, and therefore we promoted the proposals that were not on the right at the time. But I am happy that the Right now agrees with the proposal that goes on pay, which SV and Right agree on. When it comes to funding for studies, which he now draws out, to get more lecturers into school, I think this is a wrong way to go. If there have been problems with the teacher group, we have solved them with selective measures. Now it's about lecturers, now we have to do something for them, we have to make some special arrangements, etc. – and I don’t think that’s the way to go. The only way to go is to get a general pay gap, so that these groups are treated as other employee groups, thus ensuring recruitment, not constantly seeking such alternative solutions. Then I have two questions for Petter Løvik. The first concerns raising the entry requirements for teacher training. The problem today is that we do not get enough applicants, and it does not mean to raise the demand for admission. My question is: Should there be special admission requirements – in addition to the general requirement of study competence – to be admitted to teacher training, and should one then distinguish between that type of education and other types of education? And then to this with hourly resources -- a minimum standard, as I call it. The right is concerned with individualised training. They've talked about those who are theoretically good, and those who are practically good, that they should be facilitated. In order to achieve this, why does not the Right proposal from the SV and the majority to ensure a minimum hourly resource, which is to be used for individualised training?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e718	The representative of Rikvam opposes the use of study funding, full scholarships and partial scholarships, of the additional pedagogical training. And that would be a good point of view if there were other solutions to the problem we have. The representative Rikvam outlines that if we had received generally higher salaries and, as I may have thought, what he was saying was more differentiated salaries for these groups, this problem would be solved. And then we must not seek alternative solutions, the representative performs to say. But that's exactly what Right does. Because when we see that we don't get an impact on our view, which goes on a higher salary level for teaching staff, a higher salary level for some of the people we especially need, then we're real politicians, then we go into solutions that are the second best. We're not so Catholic that we're just sitting with our hands in jail and our furrows about not getting it the way we wanted to. So it's this thing with the input to the teacher's balls. It might seem like a paradox that, in a situation where the search engine number drops, we're going to raise the input requirement. But that's what we want, we want demands in addition to general study competence. In order to be able to raise the status of the teacher's profession, the salary of the teacher's profession and the quality of Norwegian school, it doesn't work with teachers like let them sketched in Finnmark at the further level, some at the elementary school level, who might be thinking about looking at the teacher's balls. We have to get them the best motivated to go in, it's in retrospect, and so the Right disagrees with SV in this area as well. So to minimum standards. It's possible that it might have its effects, but there won't be any more money from it. This will lead to a redistribution in Norwegian schools, and unlike SV, the Right has the confidence to Norwegian local politicians that they will get the resources, they will be better able to distribute them than we are at Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e727	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e730	First I have to fix a mistake I came to do instead. I would say that the centre parties and the Workers' Party disagree with two majority proposals – I said one – and that we also do not support the minority proposal from the Workers' Party and the SV. So it's also fixed up, I hope. It is serious if young people do not find it interesting to learn. The situation is not unique to Norway. Other countries face the same problem, and this at a time when competence should be our main competitive factor. One has to ask whether it is a trend in time that young people do not want to work with people. It's not a simple answer to this challenge. The recruitment of teachers depends on both sociological, psychological and economic aspects. Of course, the feeling about the status of the teacher affects how attractive the teaching profession is to young people. With falling youth, there will also be competition for labour for schools. St.meld. No 12 has highlighted a number of issues and proposed measures that have an impact on teacher recruitment. Unfortunately, this has not been mentioned in the media, and I do not exaggerate when I say that the professional organisations involved have completely ignored this. The message bases we've received are a good proof of that, different demonstrations the same. It's pay that's been in focus. The media attention has been significant, and I quote from the head of Oppland Arbeiderblad on 26 February this year: ‘As usual, the parties which are at least at risk of fulfilling the promises promise the most. This time it applies to the Right and SV. The teachers who would have expected a responsible majority to give more firmer pay increases than is currently available must have misjudged the teaching of social skills at the teacher's college.» The centre party has respect for the right to negotiate. We therefore do not support the proposals of the minority, which will instruct the Government. In a recent report from the Conference on Teacher Recruitment organised by the Norwegian Teacher Student Team and the National Association of Students, the following is answered: "Why do we think people won't be teachers? \t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t The students come out in practice. The teachers are negative, many students stop. many follow what is ‘in time’. Now it's IT. improve the quality of higher education, and more people will be inspired to become teachers. the lack of information related to the profession, including training. teachers constantly complain about pay teachers complain too much in the media about how bad it is to be a teacher [[school violence]] So far the students at that conference. The report is attached to the mailing list of the Church, Education and Research Committee per 28 February 2000. For the sake of order, let me add that the teacher students also believe that pay is important for recruitment, as is actually stated in the notice. This is enhanced in the setting. There is some disagreement about the exact need for teachers in the future. It is natural, because it is not possible to predict all possibleities in the labour market. In particular, the consequences of the reform of continuing training will have an impact on the need for teachers at different levels. The center party believes that it is now done too little for teachers who have been in teaching for a long time. It is high time to develop a senior policy where you can take advantage of the competences of older teachers, while at the same time giving individual teachers the feeling of contributing positively to school development. It is good that the message says that the current trials in this area should be further developed in cooperation with teacher organisations. It is worrying that very many teachers are not in the job of retirement. I think the school reforms can be some reason. Understandably, many older teachers find it difficult to deal with the new school day. The Committee, like the Ministry, has highlighted the problem of so few real-time students entering the teaching profession. Here a force must be applied, as the message goes in front of. It is positive that the main tariff agreement of 1 May 1999 provides for employers to be able to pay their staff better than before under certain conditions. This should have an impact on recruitment. Major efforts in continuing training with the possibility of longer leave arrangements are positive measures fully endorsed by the Ministry. The Committee will also investigate the possibility of sabbatical years for teachers. That's good. It is particularly important that teachers master ICT, not least as the educational tool it is. This is one of the areas of activity of the Government's school package, for which the Workers' Party supported during the last harvest of the budget agreement. Testing of years of practice after the third year of study, as proposed in the Communication, is also an exciting step towards making the study more flexible and practical. The Committee would like to see a framework for the provision of guidance for newly-trained teachers. It is also a positive measure. In our multicultural society, the school needs special skills in different native languages. Therefore, the work of schooling teachers for such training, in addition to Norwegian as a second language, needs to be intensified. Few will be headmasters today. This is serious, because the role of the head of the school is central to the educational development of each school, including staff development. The centre party is pleased that a working group should be set up to look at the working conditions of school leaders. The working environment for pupils and teachers is an important factor in school well-being. Here I'm not just thinking about the physical environment, at least as important is the psychosocial work environment. The Centre Party supports the Ministry, which, together with the KS, will carry out a broad survey of the working environment of teachers in the next life-cycle survey in 2001. I am the case rapporteur for Document No. 8:71 for 1998–99 on equivalent school services, among others. special education, teaching timepieces and sharing hours. This was promoted by representatives Sylvia Brustad and Grete Knudsen just before the end of the previous session. I stress that there are curricula and regulations that describe minimum hours for subjects at the different class stages. In this way, there is already a form of national minimum standards. In addition, we know that special pedagogical measures such as support hours etc. and other hours are needed. There's a big difference between how many hours are used for this. Councillor Lilletun and the Government have opened up alternative use of the hour resources where the class-sharing hour may fall away. The aim is to increase the adult density of the large classes, not least in the youth. The size has decided that this can be tested in the youth. The Central Party supports the Government's desire to gain experience before going to permanent changes. The Committee agrees. It is presented in proposals for decisions in Roman Number VI, where the Government is asked to return to the Stortinget with proposals for hourly resources for each school. This should be based, inter alia, on: The trials, as I said. Int. S.119. The Workers' Party and SV consider that there is no need for testing, but fortunately the same lots are held together with the Centre Parties in the Innst. S clause.120. The centre party believes that one needs to increase the resources of the municipalities so that we can ensure a good public school where it is possible to provide each individual student with appropriate training based on their own assumptions. I point out that both Prime Minister Bondevik and Minister for Local and Regional Affairs and Regional Affairs, Mr Enoxen, have stated that resources for the municipal sector should be increased. On my own account, I would like to stress the importance of the municipalities having a school-based management that understands the daily challenges of the school and that has the development perspective in its thinking. I am afraid that is not the case in all municipalities today. The centre party does not support the Right proposal in the Innst. S. No 115 on the reorganisation of youth, which may lead to level differentiation. I think it needs to be facilitated for better differentiation of the subject matter, so that all students can use their skills based on their assumptions. The legislation does not prevent it today, but one must dry out to try out new training models. Here I think a lot of schools, especially in the early stages, have stagnated in an old pattern. Therefore, there is a need for both more continuing training for educational staff, more resources for school and more freer use of these. The teacher recruitment message also opens up the possibility for other groups of professionals to work at school to relieve teachers in work that is not directly related to the educational system. Here it must be stressed that there is a pedagogue to manage the training, while others can take care of other support functions in a school where there is room for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e803	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e806	It is possible that I heard errors, and it is also possible that there is a rash of statistical randomness, but as far as I got along, the representative Tingelstad did not mention the term ‘one-stop school’ once in his post. In this setting, the Central Party will not use that term once. It disappoints me if there is any content in it that they do not use it, because it has been a concept that the Workers' Party and the Centre have been united, and that has been an overall goal for the Norwegian school. At best, it's festive, at least it's interesting, to follow developments in the Central Party's education policy over the last few years. It's been a glide flight. We remember the last period, when the Center Party was the dominant party among the center parties. It's slipping a little bit. Then they were a pusher in school policy; a pusher with unlimited means. At that time, former prime minister Sigurd Manneråk was in charge of the students' indoor climate and proposed work environment laws and argued forcefully to improve school buildings, school buildings which, according to the Center Party, were in a disastrous state. Now they will not be involved when the Workers' Party and SV will intensify their efforts to do something about the indoor climate in the school. Is the situation in the school or the situation in the Central Party changing? In the last period, we also had former Pedagogue Rita Roaldsen, who stood on and fought for it to be two pedagogues for the 6-year-olds. She had tough negotiations with the Workers' Party and insisted that there should be two pedagogues. Now the Center Party will go away from this. Are there 6-year-olds in the year 2000 different from 6-year-olds in 1997, or is the Centre Party in 2000 different from the Centre Party in 1997?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e815	It's always fun to get a line from the representative Tomas Norvoll, because he has an engagement that only a 30-year-old and not a 60-year-old can have. But I appreciate it. These are the kind of representatives we need in the future, who are really on. I'll try to do my best, too, despite being twice as old as the representative Norvoll. With regard to the ‘unitary school’, I have to say to the representative Norvoll that it was probably just a mistake, because one can go into our programme from 1997, and it says so. I have foreshadowed it in all respects, and the representative Norvoll knows that very well. But he has to deal with something – I am aware of that. This was a mere glitch. Then it was that I was now almost involved in school policy. There have been some changes in the role here, I have to remind the representative Norvoll. I am now in position, the representative Norvoll is in opposition, and it probably also affects the power used from the pulpit at different times. I remember that it was the representative Manneråk who took the initiative to get a big message about the working environment. That would not be the case with the government at that time, so it became a completely different matter. Now it is the health, environmental and safety regulations that are being tested, and that this government has been working on. You haven't finished it, and I can tell you that the work has gone too late. But we're very concerned about the working environment at school. And when we're not involved in the comment submitted by the Workers' Party and SV, it's because we see it as unnecessary, because we have another way of doing it. When it comes to the requirement of two pedagogues falling away, I'm going to admit that there's something I'm not happy about, but one has to give and take here in the world, and I've fought for us to have two pedagogues. I'm honest enough to say that. But I'm also so honest that I say there's different views in different parts of this. We believe that the best possible use of pedagogical resources is the most important. We're going to have enough adult density, and we're not going to have less resources for the first class, anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e827	In the case of employment and negotiations on wages and salaries, teachers are a profession in a special position in the Nordic region. As far as I am concerned, there are no other professional groups where the right to negotiate and pay/daily activities are shared. In fact, some modifications of the pay system are in progress, but mainly it will continue to be the responsibility of the State to negotiate with the teachers. One thing is that this scheme has been met with considerable resistance in municipalities and counties, among others. represented at the Central Association of Municipalities, but there are also many other reasons for bringing together responsibility for the working conditions of teachers: We need to ask ourselves whether the collective bargaining system is suitable as an instrument for applying for national school governance. Nor should we, as big-scale politicians, govern through laws, regulations, etc.? Of course, it is also logical that negotiation responsibility should be consistent with the daily financial responsibility. From my point of view, it is also about local democracy, the possibility of regional and local adaptations and flexibility. The centre party is, of course, a party that claims to be occupied by local self-government, local democracy, etc. I find it amazing that you are a member of the centralization and over-management of the municipalities that are in today's system. I have previously tried to get an explanation of this from the Center Party, without becoming much wiser. What about principles? Is it okay to have them as long as you don't put them into practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e841	I record that there will be some repetition exercises also in this debate, because these are themes that have been up to several times before. It is right, as the representative Knudsen says, that employment and negotiating rights are a problematic area, because it is natural that it should be at the same level. I can support the representative in saying that this should be the goal in the long term. But I believe that when there is so little trust between the different parties, it would be totally wrong to go into such a process now. Trust between the parties must be built if we believe that the municipalities should become the right negotiator, cf. Our visit to Sweden. There was a year to come up with a change in negotiating responsibility. That being said, the Center Party has been very concerned with the precisely school of unity, and that we are going to have equivalent relationships for teachers and for students in the country, wherever they live. It has been very important for us, and therefore we have not been a driver for making changes in this area. But I'm saying it's a process. I am aware that we have Members – both rapporteurs and others – who have voted in favour of this. We'll register it. But we're assuming that there has to be a process that's going on here, and then we'll see what it's going to be. I don't have the overall goal of getting to this with the first. It has to be done much better.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e850	I am interested to note that the figures both for the government parties and for the Workers' Party are hypersensitive today in terms of the relationship between accumulation and government and the Stortingen's possible instruction in relation to the Government. It is very interesting to note that on Tuesday the Stortinget will deal with the Fornebu case for the ninth time, and the Workers' Party will, together with its majority partner, the Advance Party, instruct the Government for the ninth time in one case. This time even instructions are to be given as to who will represent the state in future in cooperation with Peace. Olsen. What is meant by today’s debate must be said to be a relatively situational form of sensitivity in terms of instructions from the Government. The representative of Tingelstad was also concerned on behalf of the government that has allowed himself to instruct for the time being eight times in that matter. Now the representative, together with the Workers' Party and the other representatives of the government parties, says in the opinion of the Committee: ‘Recruitment of teachers requires, in the majority’s view, that the school is also economically competitive in relation to other professions, with which it is reasonable to compare the teaching profession. The level of pay affects the attractiveness of the teaching profession and the general reputation of teachers in society.» That's very well said. But once again, I have to ask the question, what is the meaning of that? If it's going to make any sense at all to talk about competitive pay compared to groups you compare with, that's the relative pay level you're talking about. Why can't you admit that's what you're talking about? Either these sentences have the meaning of the proposal from the SV and the Right, or they have no meaning at all. Can the representative Tingelstad explain to me what she thinks about competitive pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e862	I'm sensitive, I am. But that I'm hypersensitive, I'm not sure. I think I have a pretty healthy relationship with my emotional life. That's going to be the first answer. In terms of how much we should feel and be hypersensitive to instruction, it remains to be seen. I understand that the representatives from the Right want to upset us a little bit about this, because they are not part of the government, so the only thing they have the opportunity to do is to grieve – until one day changes happen. Then we might be in some other places each. So it's the recurring question: what is a competitive salary?, which the representative has now asked several of us who belong to the majority. Then I have to say that I have confidence that it understands the partners. Should I say what I think about competitive pay, it is that there can be attractive pay at school, so that we get more people to apply for it – neither worse nor better than that. But for us in the Central Party, it is very important to have the right to negotiate. We believe that employees and employers can handle this, and I think it is a strength not least for the Norwegian price and salary development that we have this system, and that one should not fly to Stortinget every time it is a problem, and ask for more pay. I would have seen what it would have been like if the Right had been in the Departments and got a big decision to instruct in this way. I know that wages in the media have said that this has happened before. Yes, it's happened before, in connection with the judges. But then it actually happened that it was the department that addressed the problem, and thus a committee responded positively to it. There is something quite different than the fact that a majority of people take the initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e873	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e876	When we're going to debate four things in a round, it has to be a strict priority for those who only have five minutes at their disposal, so I focus my article on what's essentially, how to recruit and keep teachers in school. This is also, in my opinion, the most important case in the case of Norwegian school. And to quote the educational policy programme of the Left: ‘The key to achieving the goal of a better school is that the teachers to do the job are motivated and competent. In order to recruit more and keep the good teachers, the teaching profession must be made more attractive.» This is what this message is about. In the left's opinion, we only get teachers who want to develop the school, by giving room for that. We have long been concerned that the teacher should be reduced to some kind of competence bureaucrat, and that is this development we are now turning around. I believe that more people will choose the school as a workplace if this becomes exciting and developing. The commitment to development and experimentation is therefore important. At the same time, the ability of each school to carry out professional and educational development depends on greater local freedom to organise and dispose of the school's overall resources, as requested by the majority. Current detailed and centralised working time arrangements prevent local creativity and development. Several minimum standards will also be going in the wrong direction. School depends on local involvement. More detailed instructions from the State and more designation will, in the view of the Left, directly affect such developments. Equally important in order to ensure that the school has qualified and motivated teachers is that teachers, in line with other professionals in the knowledge society, receive continuous professional replenishment. For too long, continuing training for teachers has meant a three-day course to be updated from the department. With the new leave arrangements, teachers will have a real opportunity to re-train themselves or to host business. I am also very pleased that it is the majority to work out a Sabbath arrangement for teachers. This is also the program point of the left. Teacher organisations have been mildly most concerned with one of the tools for recruiting and retaining teachers, i.e. wages. It is up to them to fight for better pay for their members. On the other hand, it is not the Storting's job to conduct wage negotiations for a single group. The left considers that recruitment to the teaching profession depends on the school being able to offer a competitive salary level, as expressed in the comments, and we believe that it is an objective that individual teachers should have more opportunity to influence their own career and wage development without having to leave education as their primary task. This must, in the view of the Left, mean more local wage formation and better possibility for individual assessment of the salaries of teachers on the basis of given criteria. But the left stresses that the social partners are negotiating a wage agreement. That is why I am very pleased that the parties have just agreed on an agreement that allows for greater freedom in terms of the pay placement of teachers. Municipalities now have the opportunity to provide local pay supplements to recruit and retain teachers in disciplines or geographical areas where the situation is difficult. I hope the negative development many teachers have felt on the body by the fact that the school has become a tougher job, can be turned. The left wants to open school to other trade and profession groups and is pleased that this will now be given a majority. The school needs professionals who can support teachers in their psychosocial work, but also other professionals who can provide the school with something new. At the same time, it is important that new models of allocation of resources to schools provide increased opportunities for new forms of education and increasing adulthood. In this context, I would like to point out that the minority, here, the Workers' Party and SV, have, in my opinion, misunderstood the intentions of the proposal to lift the requirement of two first-class pedagogues. The left stresses that the resource effort for this class step should be the same, but that it must be up to the individual school to assess the kind of extra professional competence that each class needs. In our opinion, it is an example that some of us actually implement it almost everyone uses fine words to say: greater local space for action and greater trust in the management of each school. Finally, I would like to stress that the Norwegian school — both primary and secondary — has a great many skilled teachers who are satisfied and do a very good job, despite many changes in recent years and despite the lack of resources in many places. Just because the good teachers are the foundation of the community of competences, we need to ensure that the motivated and qualified young people continue to choose the teaching profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e896	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e899	I'm glad that the working party and the center part of almost all of the areas are together in this setting. It shows that we have a lot in common when it comes to Norwegian education policies and responses to the problem of recruiting teachers. I have a specific question for the representative. There is a note on which the Left is associated with a multiple, all the non-participating members of the Labour Party, where they point out that there is too much detailed management and centralized working time arrangements in today's school. This is perceived by the Labour Party as the Left and the Multiples intervene directly in the contract work, while the Left and the Labour Party agree that when it concerns the pay question, which is of course part of the contract work, one does not want to interfere in the contract work. I would like the representative to deepen it. Furthermore, this plural says that they ‘sees therefore a different organisation of the school day, the school week and the school year as important and necessary in making the school more attractive as a job’. This possibility actually exists today. Today there is very great freedom with regard to organizing the school, the school's leadership, the school's everyday life. When Stortinget deals with training laws, open the Stortinget – quite liberally – at that point, about freedom to organise school life. I would like the representative Falch Fladmark to deepen it a little further.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e913	As the representative Uppebøen Hansen said, the centre parties and the Workers' Party agree on a number of issues regarding school policy. At the same time, there are some areas where we separate teams, and I see as one of these areas this with the will to realize local freedom of action in terms of school – that's what I was in my post. This case Uppøen Hansen draws up, is an example of where we separate layers. For us, it is an important prerequisite for local freedom of action to ensure that the centralized directives of the school are no longer there. How to do that, of course, is up to the social partners. It shall be the organisations together with the counterparty that shall determine how this will be organised in the future. This is exactly what you're doing, and that's what the bulk of the population is responding to, because the government's view of this was presented in the message, and the majority of the population is giving a positive response. So I don't see this as meddling in pay negotiations in the same way that a minority does in another case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e918	I will try to be concrete to get concrete answers back. Left, among other things, says that teachers must have a competitive wage. It must mean that being a teacher is attractive. And then my question is, is wages generally competitive today? If the answer is yes, the Right disagrees. If the answer is no, will this in practice say that the Left Inner supports the Right and SV's proposal? Secondly, as far as I know, does the Left want a stronger differentiation of wages than that in the contract work today? Point 3: Is it a problem that there are too few lecturers in Norwegian school today? And if one says yes to it at the same time as one goes against the proposal put forward by the Right – i.e. on better study funding – and at the same time goes against saying something concrete about the level of pay, what action will the Left try to take to improve this situation? Or: Will one just let it scour, and say that it's sad with these lecturers who aren't here, but we don't intend to do anything concrete about it – because it doesn't have much to say anyway? And finally, with central control. All members of the international debate know that Norwegian schools are more centralised than schools in most other countries. And now the big crowd, all unbegotten Right, will once again go in and impose on the schools a paternal arrangement, and stimulate for this. These paternal arrangements, which we have in Norwegian school today, work very well in those places where the schools have found it useful to go into them. But are we now going to instruct Norwegian schools by decision-making to introduce ramifications? If this is to be done by decision-making, should it be allowed to do so, should there be a regulation on this, should there be an appeal, or is there only a declaration of will out in the open air about something that the Norwegian school is already doing today of pure, free will?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e929	To take the last one first: the right has obviously hung itself up in this system of fathers, and sees this almost as a Stalinist dictatorship from the Stortinget. The left, and I think the other centre parties, too, agree that this decision should not be perceived in this way. It is precisely by stimulating that the state can further develop the school. And that's how we see this proposal – as an incentive and an opportunity the state has to get a good deal of action. That is why we are in favour of this proposal. As for the other points that Løvik raised, I would like to say that I have the feeling that it's just the center parties that have a perfectly consistent and tidy relationship to what's going to be the Big One's tasks in these days. We're the only parties that are actually consistent and principleal here. And we believe that it should not be the Storting's job to conduct wage negotiations. That is precisely why we do not go into proposals, as the Right does. As regards the differentiation of pay and more local pay rates, I explained that in my post, and I said that it is up to the parties to find out the agreements that can work best. We have a view that this may make sense, but we should not use the Stortinget to adopt negotiating solutions for the parties. What I think is a neat way of dealing with it, and that's how the Storting should work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e939	Helene Falch Fladmark believed that we had misunderstood the proposal of the government parties and the Right and the Advance Party in this respect with two first-class educators. I don't think we have. I think we understand very well what's going on there, because we were there two years ago and made the legal text that you want to change today. We understand that the goal is not to remove resources. We understand that for the most part. However, the objective is clearly to change a system that allows schools to use, instead of possibly a pedagogue, another adult person to teach in the first class when there are over 18 students. And we don't want to. We believe that this is such an important educational work, and that the work in the class when there are over 18 students is so difficult and heavy for those who are going to work with these six-year-olds – we are talking about six-year-olds, we are not talking about seven- or eight-year-olds – that people who have vocational training are needed. So I think we understand what this is about. We believe that it is a very bad proposal – a really bad proposal – to change the provision that has been allowed to live for two years. So to my question. It's going to be something of the same thing that Sigvald Uppøen Hansen brought up. I am pleased that the Left is in favour of trying to give leadership, try to instruct in terms of the contract work. We can't change that. The size can't change that. But we can give leadership to those who are going to negotiate on behalf of the state. And I think you can do that in this case. But when it comes to pay, you obviously can't give that kind of leadership. What is the difference between trying to give leadership in terms of negotiations concerning employment contracts and what to do with pay? Both parts are tariff fixed, so there should be no principle in this. What is the difference for the Left that makes them unable to agree with the proposal that the Right and SV agree on when it comes to giving leadership also on pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e946	Now I have said up to several times here from the pulpit that the Left and the other centre parties agree that it is not the task of the Stortingen to conduct wage negotiations. And that's what we're standing by. That's what's behind us not going in and instructing one of the parties in the forthcoming pay negotiations. There's different opinions about this, but that's our view. In the case of the other case, the centre parties, as I said before, together with everyone outside the Workers' Party respond to a proposal contained in the Storing Message, and that is a completely different matter, so those matters cannot be compared. As for the second SV, I think it is a little problematic to understand what is actually SV's line in this case, because SV has been very concerned about increasing local freedom and increasing flexibility in the individual school, and that is exactly what is in the proposal to remove the legal wording that goes on pedagogues in the first class. We want to use the same resources to ensure that students get the best possible adult presence in the class, but it has to be up to each school to figure out how to get the individual class to do this. So here SV is a little inconsistent with my assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e955	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e958	I will first show that the teacher recruitment message is a direct result of an interpellation Sigvald Uppøen Hansen from the Workers' Party had in Stortinget exactly two years ago. It might be missing a couple-three days. The working party was concerned about the situation at school and especially about recruiting for the teaching profession. That's why that interpellation was taken up. With the proposals and comments made by the majority in this position, I believe that there is reason to be optimistic about further progress in this matter. There is a broad consensus, regardless of how we say it, that wages and not least employment are important for recruitment. So it's pay and employment that are the most important means of recruiting people for the teaching profession. It is the youth that is the most neglected part of the education system. That's where the dissatisfaction among the students is greatest, and that's also where it's most difficult to get teachers. Nevertheless, I will bring out all the teachers of all the schools where an excellent job is done, where with simple means and in worn-out school buildings they are able to get to student activity, a new organization of school life, get to work and activity. Among other things, I would like to mention Ski Secondary School in Akershus, which certainly does not have much resources, but which nevertheless creates an exciting school. We know that high school had more resources before, when they had a minimum hours per. class. Since it fell away, the resources of secondary school have also fallen. We know that there are considerable differences between municipalities in resources for schools. This is a threat to an equivalent school offer and a threat to the single school. So how are we going to achieve an equivalent school offer? It can be achieved in several ways. Of course, we can go back to the designation system, that the state funds are distributed through designation to the education sector. But we think this is a little bit of a good way, because it further enhances government governance. Another option is to define certain minimum standards, for which SV has made a strong voice in particular and for which the Workers' Party also agrees. The curriculum for primary school sets standards for professional content and the learning environment. These include: clarification that the students should be entitled to individual and adapted training. We believe that such standards need to be developed if we are to defend and further develop the single school. One consequence of this is that an assessment of the resource effort required for schools to achieve the objective set by society needs to be made. We can't make demands on teachers and students without they also having the certainty that they have resources, and then I'm thinking in this game of a minimum of hours. We have agreed to introduce national standards for the use of resources in terms of minimum hours for each class, so that it can provide room for division and individual arrangements. I'm glad that there is now a majority in the UK for the proposal on hourly resources for each school, although the proposal in this round is that we ask the Government to come back to the Stortningen with such a proposal. But we've come a long way. This is a way of strengthening resource use in primary school, which leads to higher adulthood in school, which is particularly important both in primary and secondary schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e977	In this setting, the Church, Education and Research Committee has formulated a perspective on the developments in the basic school and the further training that will provide inspiration and strength for the work of the new millennium. The setting provides a basis for further developing a good, up-to-date, and diverse public school for all. In the central area, it follows up and highlights the School Policy Directions option that the Government, in cooperation with the Storting, has provided the basis for its work. There is reason to commend the case-speaker, Rolf Rikvam, and the committee for this. I record that there is essentially good consistency between the ministry and the committee in their assessments of the teacher situation at school as he is today, and how he can be in the future. The statement of the teacher’s need is based on uncertain statements. If there are any changes to the statements, the result may be different. Therefore, it is important to follow developments closely. The terms and conditions of employment are one of several factors affecting the recruitment of the teacher profession. A more flexible contract work, customizing local conditions, can make school a more attractive job. I note that the Government and the Committee are some at this important point. The level of pay affects the attractiveness of the profession of learning, and the general reputation that teachers want in society. In order to obtain qualified applicants for the teaching profession and to help ensure that already outreach teachers continue in school, it is important that the salary level is seen as satisfactory. The school must be competitive on wages, but it is the social partners who negotiate wage agreements. The Ministry of Labour and Administration negotiates on behalf of the State in respect of the pay of teachers. I am pleased that the Committee has so clearly underlined the need to change the works of agreement in order to create greater flexibility and local freedom. The main tariff agreement from 1 May 1999 already provides more means of improving pay conditions for the parties. The central association of local authorities has been informed that around ten municipalities have taken part in the project. I want to continue the work of making arrangements that provide room for local wage formation, adapting the local needs of the school. To meet the challenges today and in the future, schooling at all levels should be constantly evolving. I would like to encourage that development work and experiments are being carried out in order to gain more knowledge about what has to be said for the quality of learning. It's those who experience the challenges of everyday life, which are closest to finding the best solutions. I challenge this for increased effort, innovation and innovation locally. If arrangements and measures are intended to be tested, they cannot be implemented within the framework of the legislation, according to the provisions of § 1-4 of the Training Act, it is possible to apply for deviations from the laws and regulations. The role of teachers in a school for the future must be seen in the context of this development perspective. The ball must provide room for local customisation and choice, at the same time as a hold on a common national knowledge and value base. The ball must provide space for action to demonstrate confidence in the professional pedagogue and the active student. The individual school is the primary area for educational development, but the country must be responsible for stimulating and renting development work in central and new areas. A national learning and development centre will be the coordinating link when it comes to basic development and further training. Some newly-educated teachers show that they experience challenges and problems that they are not adequately offered when they get out of work. Recent professional and pedagogical changes in general teacher education have been made in order to better adapt to tomorrow’s challenges. A new schedule with content adapted to the new student and teacher roles in the school is in use in the second year. A priority objective is to give students a solid basis for meeting and mastering the tasks of a school of continuous change and renewal. This maintained good contact between educational institutions and schoolwork, which I have arranged for, among other things. through the letters of allocation to the sector. I see it as important to continue the work done by the Ministry in order to strengthen the quality and relevance of teacher training, and I would like, among other things. on the basis of the selection of the Mjøs selection and the Innst. S. No 120 in an appropriate way come to the Stortinget with the necessary assessment of teacher training. The school owner is responsible for making it possible for newly-educated teachers to develop in the teacher's role. I agree with the Committee that current teachers have valuable skills and should be able to have a role as instructors for newly-exploited staff. I will, in cooperation with other local authorities’ Central Associations, the teacher’s organisations and the teacher’s student organisations, assess how we may be able to facilitate the development of father schemes for newly-trained teachers. The costs of such schemes will be part of these assessments. Continuing training for teachers is important, both in order to enhance the professional competence of the college of teachers and to satisfy the individual's desire for further qualification. Municipalities and county councils are the principal responsible for the training of the staff in the school, and shall facilitate a holistic effort where development of competence, development work and any trials are central tools. State participates in continuing education and training. The government has led municipalities and county councils to follow up the state extra effort. In the context of reform 94 and reform 97, extensive training has been carried out. The government has launched a greater commitment to quality development in the basic school and the further training for the period 2000-2003, focusing on the use of information and communication technologies in the training. In order to ensure the best possible coordination of government and municipal resources, the Ministry has allocated resources to the municipalities for the quality development of the primary school. According to state guidelines, municipalities have the responsibility to facilitate a holistic effort in the basic sphere, where development of competences, development work and experimentation are central tools. In the further training, a major project has been undertaken with a view to improving the differentiation and organisation of training for the individual student. It's gonna be a lot of stuff. focussed on further development and adaptation of organisational aspects, such as: worksharing, working time, schedule and physical space solutions. The initiative is directed towards all the elephants in all the further education schools. For 2000, the Ministry allocated 150 million to the municipalities. The Ministry, in cooperation with universities and higher education institutions, has developed plans for the development of competences which provide the basis for part-time study, decentralised and modularised provision. In the future organisation of continuing training and development of skills for basic and continuing training personnel, greater emphasis shall be placed on local anchoring. This requires, among other things: targeted work based on school- and company-based assessment. I want to facilitate such a development. Competence development actions for schoolleaders, teachers, instructors and test subjects are key elements in a holistic quality development of the training. This is how I want to stimulate good and decent local solutions. In 2000, the Ministry allocated 50 million. to the municipalities of leave schemes with a view to allowing especially young people to deepen their skills in the fields and fields where the school needs competence. Teachers with advisory tasks and responsibility for youth entrepreneurship shall be able to host local employment and business. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee, I will take the initiative to determine whether it is possible to establish leave arrangements and sabbatical years for teachers, including the costs of such schemes. Development work related to the individual school or to groups of schools is an important contribution to good, up-to-date and adapted training for pupils. Thus, those working at the individual school must be stimulated and inspired to do such development work. However, many experience that the current working time contract is detailed and centralized, and that it can hinder the development of local creativity. The responsibility of the individual school for professional and educational development has led to greater local freedom to organise and dispose of the overall competence of the school. Work on simplifying the contract work will be continued. I'll see if it's possible to get more flexible working time arrangements. In addition, I would like to encourage the local testing of alternative forms of organisation in the training, including: in line with the new Test Agreement concluded between the Parties on 1 February of this year. As stated by St.meld. No 28 for 1998-1999, the Ministry has proposed to test an alternative resource standard directly linked to the number of pupils at each class stage in each school, in order to provide a basis for any legislative change that may both provide greater flexibility in training and provide a better link between the time of sharing and the number of pupils. The budget for 2000 has raised 14 million. to such a test at the early stage of youth in the ground. I am pleased that the Committee addresses the issue of resource allocation criteria for each school, so that the school will be able to provide the appropriate means to organise the training. I will return to Stortinget as soon as possible with the results of the tests. As you know, there is now an evaluation of the practice in the municipalities of the regulation of 1 December 1995 No. 928 on the protection of health in kindergartens and schools etc. On the basis of this evaluation, it will be assessed which measures should be taken to ensure that, if possible, progress is made in improving the indoor climate of the schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1036	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1039	Today we are dealing with a plan that has taken a long time, in my opinion too long, and that would end up in an action plan. And there are many of us who think that we have received a message without so many suggestions for action. Several speakers before me have mentioned the report that KUF has now received, which shows that the school sector in 160 of 180 municipalities surveyed receives an ever smaller proportion of the municipal budget. Of course, this is related to the total municipal economy. This difficult situation will not be taken into account by the Government in the current fiscal year, and I refer to what the Prime Minister answers in question yesterday, and what the Minister of Municipal Affairs says in today's issue of the Municipal Report. Therefore, it is my hope that the Storting now at least joins the Labour Party's proposal, which is distributed. My question is, what will the Council of State do with the precarious situation? Will he take any action in the revised budget that we are about to receive? In today's Business of 28 February, the Council of State states that teachers need to spend more time on students and less on meetings, and thus release funds that can be used to raise teachers' salaries. This is an eye-catching statement. First, the Council of State says that the teachers do not do their job, and second, it signals that the teachers will receive a relatively higher salary – that is, as the Right and SV propose today. Thirdly, the Council of State is attacking the works of agreement to finance a small peanut from a pay supplement. I want the Council of State to elaborate on this, what he puts in these statements, and how to interpret them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1048	First, I feel a great need to completely distance myself from the interpretation of what I've said, that the teachers didn't have a full year of work. All the investigations have shown that they have. Therefore, I cannot interpret that wording with me in today's business as I would like to stress. But I travel quite a lot to Norwegian schools. And one thing that a long time ago meets is that working time agreements are structured in a way that makes you feel that you don't get enough freedom to organize your everyday life in relation to educational work. In addition, I'll mention that 11 pst. of the payroll mass in the 190-hour frame. I am convinced that there are possibilities here both for more flexibility and for taking out a portion that can be used in a way that I believe teachers would be largely satisfied with. Then it also highlights something in relation to the interview with me. The example of my intervention in the right to negotiate is not correct, so I make it quite clear: this is a question of negotiation that is to be addressed between the parties, but I give a point of view. It is not unusual for the other party to give an idea of what will happen in such negotiations, so I feel free to do as well. Then to the local economy. Why is the report shown here today some times? Well, it does exist because the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research took an initiative beyond the usual reporting back to see what happens when we carry out two other important major reforms — which also require ownership — in a desperate economic situation. For this reason, the initiative to obtain material has been taken from me. It needs to be processed more, but the reason I've got it is that I want to do exactly what the Workers' Party says in its proposal, to inform about the situation in the municipal economic proposition. That's the reason why I have the information.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1059	The councils began their speeches by saying that he wanted a good, timely and diverse school for everyone. Then the council speaks, I think, from the heart. But he also speaks for the only imaginable school model, the public sphere. And then, as long as one is not willing to accept that diversity lies in the diversity of organisational solutions and diversity of forms of operation, one is still trapped in its own trap, when it comes to wages, when it comes to special agreements, and when it comes to quality relevance in teacher training. Because it becomes quality relevance only in relation to one type of school and not in relation to diversity, etc. The government's play, which has obviously irritated the Workers' Party, that teachers should be able to spend their working time mainly on student-oriented activity, supports the Progress Party, because we thought they were there just because of the students. But I get a little problem when we're going to involve a whole new group of professionals in school, because that will mean increased meeting activity, that will mean coordination, coordination, etc. I wish the Council of State could elaborate a little bit more on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1066	First of all, with new occupational groups in the school. We are currently training quite a number of child and youth workers in secondary schools, we have some social educational professions in relation to child protection education and so on. I think that part of the school's work on social education will benefit groups other than educators. They are primarily out of the question of knowledge dissemination, and I believe that we can organize this without having to create a bigger bureaucracy. When individual schools feel that they have to take surveillance, via camera in use in free minutes, I think that a better way to do it is to set up social educational groups, such as. child and youth workers, etc. to be there in free minutes, and also to be there in long minutes, etc. So let's do that with the unit ball. Now, quite rightly, the representative Ursula Evje said the ‘union ball’. It was a good attempt, I believe, to approach the Council of State's target use. It didn't quite reach, but there was a good will in it, and I appreciate it. I think it's possible to combine, have two thoughts in your head at once, and it's that we're going to have a school for most, the unicorn, which in content is so common that he captures the needs of most parents they feel for their children, and then we're also going to have the right to private schools. But my wish is that we can make such an exciting public school, often but equally, that there's good to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1075	I have noticed that the Council of State has previously stated that one of the main reasons why we have under-covered fully educated teachers in today's Norwegian school is the 6-year-old reform, and that is probably a correct diagnosis. I have now registered in Bergen’s Official Journal yesterday that the head of the big business committee has suggested that the school age should be reduced to 3 years. It might be tempting to ask how the Council of State looks at the future, if he expects to be sitting as the Council of State for a few years to come, in terms of the possibilities to meet the needs of teachers in school in such a way. When I listened to the articles of the Council of State, it ran into my mind a quote from a book that we both know quite well. It says: «Marta, Marta! You worry about a lot of things. But one is necessary’. It may not surprise the Council of State that I want to ask him a question about one necessary. The Council of State, with agreement, quoted what has been said by both the majority and the minority in the Committee, namely that it is important that the level of pay in the educational professions be seen as satisfactory. - Yes, by whom? It must be assumed that the most important thing is that it is perceived as satisfactory by young people who consider whether to invest in it as a professional future and, secondly, that it is considered satisfactory by those who work and do a job at school today. My question to the Council of State is, does he have the impression that it is such that it is perceived as satisfactory? And if he had a suspicion of the opposite – that is in that case a well-founded suspicion – what does he intend to do with it as the Council of State? To put it even a little more concrete: would the Council of State be happy if the proposal from SV and Right got a majority in Stortinget today?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1090	I thought it was a lot to enjoy in the line from the representative's salary, he took care of the council's future, and he wanted me to be happy. Of course, I appreciate both parts. I should first like to comment on the small business he had at the head of the committee – I have only seen an excerpt from that interview. For my part, I think that one made a mistake when a six-year-old reform was implemented at the pace you did; one had not adequately analysed the teacher situation. Furthermore, I think the kindergarten is the pedagogical offer we need in relation to the 3-5 years olds, so I'm probably not in favour of lowering the school age, and I don't want to comment on it any more. So it's interesting to right that the representative on the pay side is talking about pay as the ‘necessary’. I'm not sure my evaluation of the keyword he used here is exactly the same as the representative of the payroll. I'd like to see that word in a broader context. I actually found the setting asking for quite a few areas to make a necessary effort on. On the other hand, I share the definition of satisfactory pay by the representative that it must be that both those seeking vocational training and those who are in the profession should experience a reasonable and proper valuation. I don't want to go in and make any more concrete statements. I think both pay and I'll get a little hurt at most of the budget lines if a paycheck runs smoothly, so I have a lot of respect for the parties. But there are two ways: the one through the pay line [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1101	Governments are hesitating to talk about wages, and you can understand that. But I don't think he gets away without another round. Now Inge Wohnning has described SV and Right's proposal as a success pill to the Council of State. I guess it's not exactly that that pill of luck is adopted here today, but what's interesting is to know what the Council of State thinks is in the position of the majority, of the Workers' Party and the government parties. As the Council of State was involved in its statement, the Ministry of Labour and Administration is responsible for the compensation of employees in the State. Therefore, neither government nor gamble can simply say that this is a matter for the parties to the wage settlement. In fact, the Government, as a political authority, has overall responsibility for the conduct of the state in the context of wage settlements. The state is a party, and thus the Government and Stortinget are indirectly also a party, even though the minister does not sit directly at the table. The majority’s observations on page 8 of the vote read as follows: ‘Recruitment of teachers requires, in the majority’s view, that the school is also economically competitive in relation to other professions, with which it is reasonable to compare the teaching profession with that of teachers.’ How does the Council of State perceive these comments from the majority? Does this mean that the Council of State reads them so that the relative salary levels of the teachers need to be raised?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1117	I cannot simply agree with the representative, Kristin Halvorsen, that I believed so much to talk about pay that I did not. I actually had a proper section about it in my post and in the comment to the representative of the payroll. So the representative asked me to analyze the plural comment. It is clear that when a person goes in as heavily from the Stortinget's side as one here does, it indicates first of all that they agree with what is stated in the message, that pay has something to say about recruitment. Secondly, it's obvious that one person here has a certain degree of austerity in relation to some other groups, and I've analyzed what's there in relation to it. So to this with the parties, for whom the representative Kristin Halvorsen – and also the representative Wohnning – thought the Council of State had too much respect. No, I'm not sure. Because it's easy that if we don't organize paychecks so that we can repeat it successfully stated last year – where we actually got control of the price rise and the payroll, and where we got a situation where the paycheck went down again – both teachers and others will lose out on it. If the Storting was to order the Government something here, and the Government said it would favor a group, I'm afraid it could be the consequence. I notice what the plural says. I have in two articles given an experimental analysis of it, and I take this into account in the government discussions when the government is going to put up its work on the wage settlement. And then I've shown another way, which I'll also try to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1126	In the area of pay, the majority has given a very strong declaration of will that wages should be both attractive and competitive, and I would ask that the Council of State here confirms that he has understood. In the case of indoor climate and structural upgrading, government parties do not support either upgrading or even complying with the Labour Inspectorate's orders. I ask that the Council of State also here confirm that he follows up what a majority now says. So to the situation in the individual class, where a majority is now asking for the Government of the Council of State to develop a system of increasing teacher density. But when one asks, and wants to join, to increase the number of teachers, why should one go in at the same time to take away a teacher from the 6's when you get into the classes in a student's number of over 18? Does the Council of State think it's too much to have two teachers for the 6-year-olds when there are more than 18 students? Who, then, is going to thank unskilled workers in that class? Traditionally, we know who it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1135	It was okay that I got the opportunity to come back, because there was one thing in the post that I didn't have time for. These are the following: The government will also obtain an overview of how the directives from the Labour Inspectorate on the improvement of the indoor climate have been followed up, and will come back to Stortinget for more information. I have previously also promised that the Government will notify the Storting during the spring about how we should follow up the investigation into the HMS regulation that has been carried out. For this once again with pay: I think I have said three times that I have noticed what the committee has said, and I can read quite well. I think that what has been said is actually well said, and of course I will take that into account in the work that the Government is going to do in connection with the pay decision. Then I have also shown another way – to take it up again once again – to get something done with pay. So to this with two pedagogues. It has been clarified from the Government, and since the majority, that it is not a matter of a smaller resource allocation. On the contrary, this proposal may increase the vigilance of the 6-year-old group, for a child and youth worker will be more reasonable than a pedagogue, and it may well be possible to put in a higher degree of vigilance than that of the current scheme. There are still 18 elephants that are bordered, while 28 elephants are bordered when one has gone up one step. Thus, there is still a much better situation for 6-year-olds than for older people. That's the way it should be. So I want some more flexibility, and I want to keep the resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1144	: The chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1149	It is something that strikes me in this debate, and it is that teachers find us everywhere in local politics, in county politics, even in a large number of this debate in this Chamber and in the audience. It also strikes me that such representation and influence are not many other groups in this country that have. It is even more strange that, through trade unions, through political influence, participation in almost all forums, you are not able to solve your own pay problem in an earlier and better way. I've become a little familiar with talking football in this room, along with the representative Wohnning, and it's called when the judge in a football game is clearly involved and puts his mark on the game: Get out with the judge and in with the cow! Now I don't want to claim that this is the case here, but someone feels that this is true, they just get to take it. We have also heard that the Workers' Party will not enter the pay negotiations for the teachers. No well, but that they've never done it before, is hardly true, we've all heard of and someone's been on the famous Kleppe packages. In the case of quality improvement measures at school, the Progress Party and the Right have largely agreed and are also in the context of this Communication. What characterizes the Progress Party is that we think a little bit longer than the Right, which our proposals clearly show in many things that have been put forward. At the same time, the progressing party will show that we are continuously dealing with a wide range of issues that all have elements of pay, management, hours, in other words matters that are largely organisational – quality is much less. Teachers who are not good enough should probably not be kicked, it came as a kind of recognition from SV – a strange argument from Reikvam. I don't want to claim that he shows a weak insight into the problem area, but he's very system-faithful and he's probably living after Thore Skogman's show of "medicine right away". For Rekvam, medicine for a sick school is synonymous with the money gallop. In the eyes of the Progress Party, this is a little constructive. The application for teacher training shows a major failure. It is worrying that the Progress Party also acknowledges it. But the same concern is justified in relation to a wide range of other professions, where the public seems to have a monopoly on services. I can briefly mention nurses, they move on again, too, not to talk about help nurses and other professional groups that are absolutely necessary to make the society we have chosen work. What characterises all of these is very small personal job development opportunities, poor pay and very difficult working conditions, and what they have in common is the employer. They all have the same employer in principle. Maybe it should make someone and anyone wake up. Different pay may occur within today's school. A relatively long step has already been taken to achieve this in tariff negotiations now in 1999. The problem is that something strange happened there. The teachers actually got some kind of veto right. If they didn't like what happened in each municipality, they could say no, and that has happened in some cases. But taking it inward and going into new discussions hope I'm possible, but I see that this can be difficult. When talking about pay, about competitive pay, the question has to be: is the competitive wage a relationship between teachers in this extreme diversity that exists in the Norwegian'reinforcement ball', or is there a relationship between teachers in private schools and teachers in the'reinforce ball'? In this case, there is no high degree of competitiveness either, because the private school law makes it quite clear that private schools are not allowed to be wage-payers in this context. They're going to stick to the same pay. Then you're left with what to compare competitiveness pay-as-you-go. Does it have anything to do with the work done by the individual teacher, or does it have something to do with the educational background independent of professional pursuit? You can imagine that a skilled teacher can become a very well-recognized stockbroker and have a salary of a few million a year. Will it be competitive? This is not at all affected by those who have written comments in this case. But it should be extremely interesting for most people if they think anything about their comments, to go into this particular issue. So to the father system, which in our opinion is right because it will provide newly educated people with security and security that they very often lack today. I've been told, quite a lot of places, that when you choose what to do in a new school year, what classes to have, what tasks to have, etc., this is based on a seniority order, that is. that teachers of long service, often with very good additional skills, choose what is simple and easy to use, and the graduates must take what is left. In some cases, graduates come into the situation that they are set to serve the problem classes, which they may not have all the world's prerequisites to do anything about. Honor be the newly educated – but this really has something to do with recruitment and getting people to stay in the profession. Then the Workers' Party is concerned about the situation at school, mainly as far as teachers are concerned, not much about the children. You have made a proposal, Document No. 8:71, which we also treat today as Innst. S. No 119, where they are talking about special education, teaching metals and partitioning metals. All education must be organized, individually taught. That's what the law says. The number of hours of instruction is determined each year for each age step. You can use the dividing times in two ways. The ministry allocates a pot of hours that can be used in grey zone waters, but what is clear is that this pot will trigger the need for an additional teacher for a few hours. You could also use the dividing hours to divide the class, where, for example, One half starts with religion, and the other half, which may be Muslims, is exempted from this and gets something else at the end. Different time to start, different time to finish - it can also be used for sharing hours. But again, this has to do with framework measures, and very little documented quality. And I think we have to admit that the myth that all the Northmen are equal belongs to a time that is past.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1178	In these days it is quite exactly two years since the Storting debated the interpellation about recruiting for the teaching profession. At that time, I stressed that we were in a serious crisis when there was a crazy recruitment in our education system. This crisis was definitely not of a new date, nor has it improved in recent years – rather on the contrary. This challenge should probably have taken us a long time before. We know that about half of today's teachers will reach retirement age in 10-15 years. We know that many outbound educators disappear into private business, and we know that fewer and fewer young people are looking for today's teacher training. When we also know that there has been a huge development at all levels in the knowledge society, this will, of course, create an even greater demand for the knowledge worker. The statistics in the last few years show us that every year there have been more and more unskilled students in Norwegian schools. The simple answers to this challenge do not exist. Even if the pay question is important, this is not a decision on the recruitment issue alone. Well-being at work, well up-to-date educational equipment and a good physical and mental work environment where the working day becomes challenging are probably so important. Nor do I overlook the fact that the crisis maximisation of the school as a workplace that we have witnessed recently has also contributed to poor recruitment. When the youth hears how miserable it is to work in school and is told that there are miserable pay terms and poor work environment, yes, then it is hardly strange that they choose another profession. The teacher’s class, and not least the Teachers’ Association, must take part in the debt for the situation we are in. Although in some municipalities there is a reality that there are bad jobs, it is not that this is similar across the country. Even if wages can be perceived as bad in Oslo and in the larger cities, it is not that one experiences the wages that are bad all over the country. The public will always come to a short payroll in the competition for who pays the most. We saw this clearly in the 1980s – in the so-called jappa era – when good and skilled educators failed the school and took on good jobs in the private business. I'm going to admit that pay is an important factor, and that this question is of great value to recruit and keep teachers in school. In the municipality of Tinn, it is suggested to increase the starting salary by approx. NOK 12000 per year. year, which has resulted in that the municipality now has twice as many seekers to the vacancy this spring as at the same time last year. If the reason is the starter's salary, I don't know, but a lot could indicate that. What I know is that such measures do not create more educators, they only help to increase competition between municipalities. This also applies to other areas of the public where there is a lack of so-called professional personnel. For all things, this matter should not only be about wage and salary struggles. In the Labour Party we believe that the overall situation in the school must be improved. Therefore, in many ways, I am satisfied that we have been able to get a pass on a number of our proposals to strengthen the school and to improve the teacher's working conditions. It is a proposal to improve the indoor climate, to increase the focus on continuing education and to distribute a sabbatical year for teachers. In addition, a few people need to strengthen the hourly resources of each school so that they can increase the teacher's density, evaluate the teacher's training and put in place a father's system for newly-trained teachers. I can promise the representative Løvik that this will be followed up in the budget later. The current situation cannot continue. Now we have to get optimism back. We need to get teachers to look at school work as a challenge. That is why we must recreate creativity, innovation and reorganization. In today's school there are no obstacles to getting this done. Only take advantage of the possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1195	There has been a tradition in Norwegian terminology of distinguishing between the screened and competitive activities, and we have been used to calculating the school as a branch of the protected sector. What is the current situation is clear that the school has become and, to an increasing extent in the years to come, will be exposed to competition in terms of access to motivated and skilled labour. The recruitment problem we are facing is not only a quantitative problem — it can be seen from the statistics in the communication — but it is also increasingly a qualitative problem. And that's a qualitative problem in two ways. On the one hand, studies show that there is an increasing proportion of those working at school who repent of their professional choices, and there is an experience that is a poor starting point for making a full, wholehearted and good effort to experience that they have actually chosen the wrong approach. The second concern is that statistics also show that the quality of teachers’ training, both general and teacher’s training based on university examinations and pedagogical seminars, falls dramatically. There is also much, as shown by the number of applicants in recent years, to suggest that an increasing proportion of those entering teacher training do not have it as their first choice, but perhaps as their second, third or fourth choice in terms of study. All of these things together mean that we're facing a pretty formidable task, which it'll take several years to solve. On the right, we have pointed out some concrete measures of a qualitative nature to which we find with some disappointment that the majority has not been willing to join. First of all, we have pointed out that Norway is soon the only country back in Europe that does not impose minimum professional requirements on those who are going to teach at youth level. It's becoming an unsustainable situation. There is a great deal to say that a future-oriented recruitment to the teaching profession must ensure that general teacher training is differentiated to a higher degree than today, and that young people must be invited to decide to specialise either in childhood, middle or youth education. With regard to the Right’s proposal to strengthen access to lecturers in secondary school, all available data also show that it is high time that selective measures were put in place to resolve the problem that the level of competence of teachers recruited at the beginning of their career in higher education today is significantly lower than the level of competence of those who fall below the age limit and become retired. It is a situation in which high school will not be able to live very long before the professional breakdown becomes apparent. For me, it is quite incomprehensible that the majority rejects this proposal for the sole reason that there is no support for selective measures, because this problem is far more dramatic in terms of precisely this group and this level than the general recruitment problem documented in the communication. The age profile of this group is even more skeptical than the age profile of the Norwegian teacher population in general, the rate of departure is even higher in the years to come, and the only majority have to say this is: we are not a follower of selective measures. However, if a special scheme relating to the funding of studies for one-year pedagogical education is not found as a dangerous path, it should at least be expected that other measures could have the same effect, but one at a time. It's with respect to report too badly. You record that the problem is there, and that it is over-mature for a solution, but you still say that you don't want to do anything about the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1212	One of the biggest challenges in Norwegian society is to create greater openness to democracy. In the last municipal election, in many municipalities, only half of those who had voting rights were allowed to use their voting rights. There's a lot of reasons for that. One of the reasons I think is that people feel that we politicians spend a lot of time and energy acting as more disagreeable than what we are. And that is unfortunately a little bit of it in the debate that we have today. This is especially the case with pay. All the parties today say that pay is important. We in the Workers' Party really believe that we politicians should not interfere with pay issues and wage settlements. And yet we're going with the government, and we're going to say, among other things. that in order for schools to qualify applicants for the teaching profession, it is ‘important that the level of pay in the educational professions is considered satisfactory’. This is an important signal. But what do representatives of the Right and SV say? Indeed, since we do not vote in favour of their proposal, a proposal that has been put forward, subject to the fact that they do not take a position in this way on wage-settings and wage negotiations – that is a very important reservation – they say that we are actually against increasing pay for teachers. There is no need to strengthen the case of teachers, and the basis for a rather hopeless debate has been laid in a way. But I underline: it is a majority – a broad majority, with the government in it – that gives a clear and important signal that teachers should get better pay. We are not completely hopeless politicians, and I would like to stress that with the decisions we are making today, the basis for a strong increase in school spending is laid. What is perhaps the most important decision today is that we have got the government parties to say that the government will come back with a concrete proposal for an hourly resource for each school. And if we're going to meet the intentions of that decision, it's clear that it's going to cost money. In addition to that, we in the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party believe that we should grant money for a development pot for each school, and not least – which was also the subject of the State Council’s contribution – that we need to do something about the indoor climate in the school soon. The council said you should get ahead of this now, and it's really high time. It is four years since the Grand Government asked the Government to draw up legislation to protect the physical working environment of pupils in line with the provisions applicable to ordinary workers. The council has had this case lying on its table since he joined two and a half years ago. When we in the Workers' Party last raised the matter in the oral question procedure on 12 January, the Council of State postponed the matter after the report, which was due to evaluate it, had been submitted in time for environmental health protection in schools and kindergartens. That report came right after, it came a month ago, and it shows that only 5 pst. of the schools comply with the requirements of this Regulation. Although many schools and many municipalities are in progress, according to the government's own evaluation, it will take 10-15 years to meet the requirements if you do not grant extra money. Now there can no longer be any excuse to wait. The conclusion of the report is clear. The main single reason for non-compliance is the lack of an economy to remedy the situation. In fact, the report recommends that a cost overview be made. It is a proposal that we in the Workers' Party have made in the past, and we also promote it in this debate, a proposal that the Government submits an overview of the costs of upgrading schools to meet the requirements of this regulation, and that we assume that the State and the Municipality enter into a partnership and agree on both the organisation and funding to meet these obligations. The council promised that he would do something with the follow-up of the regulation, but I hope he does not limit himself to it. I hope he also takes the decision that was made four years ago, that we want students to be legally entitled to a good working environment. These things should now come into place as soon as possible. For the time being, there is not a majority in favour of the proposal that the Workers' Party and SV have promoted together, but towards the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party, I would like to stress that it will never be too late to turn around in this matter, and a good opportunity for the Government will be when it presents the municipal economic proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1229	I would like to be allowed to congratulate the Minister of Education on the day and on a document that I believe is important now in order to be able to contribute concrete instruments in terms of the goal of ensuring the school's adequately skilled workforce. Unfortunately, we are not there today. We can see that. Unfortunately, the statistics provided by the Ministry show a worrying levelling in relation to the level of qualified teaching skills in the school. It goes especially across the districts, and it's regrettable. Now all the experience in predictions shows that you have to be careful to trust them. Forecasts have been submitted in the past, and it has been shown that they have failed completely. So we have to constantly be prepared to update such forecasts in relation to the reality that the school is in. We see, for example: that there is an increasing number today who are applying for teacher training, because they find this study both varied and professionally interesting, a study that provides a wide range of competence. But then they choose another profession. There's a lot of positive moves about this. It provides recruitment to professions in social and work life that ensure a wider range of competences — one might say — than the more narrow vocational education and training courses. Human and cultural competence is becoming increasingly important in order to master life and gain insight into all the complex processes of a social life. This is not least reflected in working life. Therefore, in order to give the next generation this important ability to enter and take leadership responsibility in an increasingly complex society where ethical, social and cultural perspectives are also important, it is also important that this be reflected in the training given to our leaders. There is an interesting alternative to teacher training. We also see that business is increasingly aware of that. It is not the case that companies simply turn to the colleges of commerce and the faculties of law to collect them with the best characteristics when choosing their managers. No, they go to, among others. teacher training, they go to the socio-retraining – they go to people who have a set of values, a capacity for reflection, human qualities that are important to absorb the much more complex responsibilities that a business manager has to deal with today. All of this is positive. But of course, there is also something that is negative, because we see that the flight from the teaching profession is being reinforced, not only because there are other tempting and challenging alternatives for those who have teacher training, but also because they experience the school as less meaningful to bet on. It's worrying, and we have to do something about it. We need to present the workplace, the schoolwork, as an alternative that both work and professional is meaningful. It is in this situation that I see that the department has taken on important, concrete measures. There's been a lot of focus on teacher pay. I agree with those who have claimed that there has been a disproportionate focus on teacher pay, but pay is important for recruitment. I think it has been clearly expressed from all parties in this setting, and I have little sense that we should run in a competition for the best formulations if there is agreement on the realities. There are two aspects in this setting that I am so far able to underline, but which I want to raise. First of all, it's the special need I think it is to improve the conditions of those who teach at school. Both professional and pedagogical, I believe that this teaching poses particular major challenges. Here, I believe that we as employers – if we can call ourselves that – have a great responsibility to help our youth teachers, so that they can also fill their skills, and that they can also be supplemented with other professional staff, to contribute in different areas where educational education does not simply meet the need. The second relationship I'll briefly mention is the competence of the teachers. This is particularly true of the real subjects. I'm sorry that I, as a trained lecturer, speak a little bit for my ill mother, but I'm seriously concerned about the development of the real subjects, not only for the education that children get, but also for what it means for the recruitment, for example. to technical professions and to the standard universities and colleges, where young people apply for these higher education courses.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1245	From a pretty close past when we had our fears about technological development, I remember a certain kind of joke. They were about to depict the desperate teachers who discovered that they were being replaced by electronics. Since then, technology has been developing, but no one else believes that the teacher is being replaced by technology. Instead, I would say that we have recognised that the teacher and the teacher role are more important than many have thought. In the systematic work we now need to address in terms of learning processes and work environment problems, we will produce a lot of good material that clearly points towards one conclusion: Good schools, good educational institutions, which provide opportunities for all children, depend on good teachers. In our efforts to create a high-quality unit school, we will increasingly be interested in the teaching function and the role of school leaders in the education system. In other words, we need to see time for content, adapted training for all, a good working environment and indoor climate as important also for the overall educational development work. We who are responsible for education policy, whether in general, in government or in local authorities, must clearly see to what extent we can solve such problems through political decisions and actions alone. We can pass laws, we can force new structures and reforms and secure financial resources, but most of what we want needs to be implemented in school every day. It requires skill, strength and also a desire to be in a leadership position for many children's learning. That is why the many proposals and attitudes that are in today's position, including wages, also mean that we need to be interested in the role of teachers, ensure the status of working at school, make the school attractive as a job. About the teacher's less cute life, we've heard a lot lately. It is often a rather gloomy picture of the teacher’s everyday life that comes to light when teachers and their organisations portray this everyday life in a job that is poorly paid, with dissatisfaction, with large and increasing workload and without the necessary work at their own workplace. I would like to stress that we take these signals very seriously. There are too many knowledgeable teachers who support their situation in everyday life so well that it is unwise to ignore them. For this it can and should not be in Norwegian school. Now, on behalf of the Council of State, the education directors also come up with a new survey confirming the restless picture. And we in the Labour Party have also made a proposal today that this matter must be discussed separately in the Stortinget. When we think that the role of teachers is becoming more important in the coming years, the teaching profession must and should be attractive and stable. I want to get into part of the challenges. The stability of the teaching profession is not as it was. Several graduates do not start school, several older teachers make more and more use of contractual pensions, and teachers who are currently using a small part of continuing education need to increase their use, together with the fact that not least women need to become far more pay-sensitive than before — especially for young people in an educational situation. So a lot of this is pointing away from school. The Committee has otherwise highlighted the lessons to be learned in a classroom with many different children, all of whom have the right to be met on the basis of their own assumptions. That job doesn't do one person alone. That's why the majority also advocates that the Government should investigate a system for a basic resource and a student resource for each class, in line with the system proposed by the Norwegian Teacher Team, i.e. teachers in teamwork. We go into a time when the few of us can expect to stay in the same profession all their life out. This also needs to be taken into consideration by teacher training. There must be more pathways to the teaching profession, and the student in education must receive guidance from experienced teachers for longer periods of practice than today, and as new teachers receive the help of a so-called father, an experienced teacher. In our country, we have a good tradition of being able to prepare the general teacher for almost all important subjects through basic education. This may have been right in a more static society. Today, it is almost banal to note that changes in trade and society radically increase the need to stay up-to-date throughout the professional career. Then we're on the subject of continuing education, where the majority of the committee is also in favour of discussing the issue of a Sabbath year. Being able to feel safe, professional and human is a prerequisite for well-being. At that time, work environment problems have an obvious and independent weight, which must not come into the background. On several occasions, individual parties have shown the need for good jobs, a good indoor climate and upgrading of school buildings, but when it comes to voting today, the majority will only vote in favour of it of course that the Labour Inspectorate's mandate should be followed. Government parties are not in favour of upgrading school buildings, workplaces for individual teachers and a development pot at each school for use in cooperation between the municipality and the state. It is only the Labour Party and the SV who will vote in favour. But we also have more difficult challenges. If school and teachers are to create beneficial people, we will not get past what a bad growing-up environment has to say. A school for all is an extremely problematic challenge for many teachers. But there's no going back from school for everyone. It must not be a sign in time that pupils who do not ‘have to attend school’ can be sent away from there. The increased resources through minimum standards that should be developed are a signal that the class should continue to be a place where different children meet to receive training for a society that we would like to be a society where tolerance prevails. We have a tradition in Norway to centralize the school system. We're a small country, the school is strong, and our equality traditions were well suited to a strong department. It's a valuable tradition, but we've changed it over a few years. We've delegated and decentralised. Teacher organisations continue to be most confident in the dialogue and cooperation with the Ministry. But the recent school reforms have shifted power out, and it will continue. That also means that schools don't get the same. Now, when studies show us that the reduction of designation to school and more decentralisation have led to greater inequality and reductions in school resources, we all have a problem. The Committee has therefore pointed out today that there needs to be an improvement in the resources of each class, in order to ensure that the teacher can do his or her job. Restoring interaction between authorities and teachers must be a central objective. Politically, there are no parties serving on a state of closest war, as it has been lately. Teacher groups must be paid attractively and competitively. It is the majority's declaration of intent to those who negotiate wages in spring's settlement. But differentiated wages according to geography and competence are, in the view of the Workers' Party, a practice. If the school is to be secured, and it is to be, local self-government cannot be an overall goal in itself, if it turns out that the students actually don't get what we want society to give them. Designation of appropriations has become a shell word in certain circles. At the same time, we must not forget that ringing in reality has often proved to be both a flexible and effective instrument. Can't be used now for different reasons, we need to set minimum standards to a greater extent, but also with defined sanctioning options. Finally, we need to put our faith in the strong school manager, who primarily represents the employer. It has created an impossible leadership role in school, which no one will soon have. A more collective leadership, with leaders who are educational leaders, and the allocation of leadership tasks must be developed. In primary schools, the fusion of kindergarten and primary education needs to be further developed. The nursery must be a right for the children, with systematic pedagogical arrangements from the age of three. Otherwise there will be many children who have difficult relationships, who are actually outlawed as they begin in a school situation. What the majority of people today do by taking a teacher away from 1st grade when there are more than 18 students is also a bad signal when the Council of State is going in a different direction at the same time to increase the teacher's density. But we expect that during the spring we will have the opportunity to discuss the recent report on the situation in our municipalities, which seems to be going in the opposite direction of one school, an equivalent school for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1285	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1288	We are probably approaching the end of the debate today, and I have found reason to ask for the floor for the first time because I am surprised that the Council of State thanks the majority for being able to intervene in the contract work related to working time arrangements. At least that's how I perceived it. And I'm also surprised, when there's been such an important topic in the debate from some teams, that they haven't had the will to bring out from this pulp what the obstacles in today's systems are, or – I kept saying – what kind of revolution will happen in Norwegian school if you change the so-called detailed and centralized working time arrangements. I miss those who are behind the majority position, what they really think is the big problem. It has not been expressed, and I do not expect anything special to happen later on in the course of the day either. What was important for the Workers' Party when we started working on the setting was that we wanted to go in for a larger action plan, which I have stated earlier. And I have reason to repeat the declaration of will that the Workers' Party and the majority stand for in relation to wages, which I have registered that the Council of State has perceived clearly. He also answered it in a line change. But it is also important to have what the Workers' Party did when we went in to present an action plan. We set up nine points. There was an increase in teacher's density, hourly resources, educational development pots, post-training pots, study of sabbatical years for teachers, a father's scheme for newly educated teachers, a plan for upgrading teachers' jobs, follow up the Labour Inspectorate's instructions for the improvement of the indoor climate and the necessary updating of teacher's training. Of these points, we've gotten through most of them. We have not been given a majority for what we feel is very important – and I have been to it in the past – namely the development pot and the partnership we are looking for in the relationship between the state and the municipality. We regret that, but at least I can promise that this is something we will come back to on a later occasion, and I am convinced that we will then be able to have a majority when you see the importance of the proposal for which we do not now receive a majority. Much has been said about the relationship between the social partners and the Stortinget. From the moment we started the notification, the Workers' Party has maintained the role-sharing between the Storting and the social partners. There are some people who have tried to do a number that, on the other hand, we have placed restrictions on the payroll part. We have not done so, but we have always said that it is the social partners who are to conduct wage negotiations, and it is the contractual agency that regulates working conditions elsewhere. We have stood by that principle, and I am really happy when I have heard the debate here today, because we have been so solid in this. In fact, I believe the Workers' Party on the outside will have great respect for the position that there is a division of roles between the Stortinget and the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1302	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1305	In today’s debate, the Progress Party has been accused of a lack of knowledge of tariff systems, agreements and evaluation. The accusations have come from SV and the Workers' Party. The representative, Rune E. Kristiansen, asserted that per person. Today, there is considerable flexibility in the pay system. Yes, we have some flexibility, that's right, but this is little used, and it's actually a veto right from the trade unions. We want the possibilities that are there to be used, and we want further systematized flexibility. The representative Rolf Rikvam was of the opinion that the Progress Party did not have knowledge of the evaluation work already taking place in the school. I can promise the representative that we have registered that there is a significant evaluation work in the school and that a number of steps have been taken, including: as a result of the notification of the national assessment system. However, we want significantly more and more rigorous evaluation. We want this evaluation to be more systematised and based on evaluation by school management, parents, students and independent inspectors, as I have pointed out earlier in the debate today, and that the evaluation will have consequences, in the form of salary increases if there are good results, and if there are poor results, by entering and correcting courses, going into continuing training, or in particularly severe cases having quit as an alternative. In the line-up between Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen and the State Council, there was a lot of time spent in school. The progress party is the only party that has said something about this in the clear text in the setting, namely: «Within today's system, these members will point out in particular the part of teachers' working hours that is not student-oriented and largely associated with more or less desert-free meeting activities. This represents a large number of unproductive teacher hours, as well as a considerable amount of administrative resources.’ Finally, I would like to refer you to Trønder-Avisa on Saturday 26 February. The representative of Lyngstad is the next speaker on the list of speakers, and he may be able to make a statement: in Trönder-Avisa, he advocates a flexible pay system, differentiated pay and negotiations in individual schools. I call for these concrete views and this policy in the position and in proposals from the Christian People's Party. Is it true that there is one policy in the press and another in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1319	When Stortinget decided to ask for a notice of recruitment to the teaching profession, it was because it saw the problems of recruitment to an important profession. The review shows that there are several factors affecting recruitment, and the situation is also more nuanced than can be read from the headlines in the newspapers. At the same time, we can see that the teaching profession has a high degree of stability compared to other professions. The Christian People's Party acknowledges that wages are important for the recruitment of the teaching profession, so we believe that it is important to pay competitively compared to other professions. In my opinion, there is a need to get more dynamism into the pay system, as the representative Knudsen correctly quoted me from Trønder-Avisa, and I hope that the parties in the pay negotiations will further develop the local space of action that is already in the main agreement, which is an opportunity to further develop. The Christian People's Party also sees that the overall working situation will have a major impact on recruitment. Greater local adaptation of working time contracts could also improve the working situation for individual teachers. Such developments will therefore benefit everyone in school. There should be a mutual interest between the parties here. Today’s debate also demonstrates the emergence of a strategy for increasing continuing training as a tool both for better working conditions and for improved quality. This year, the government is increasing its commitment to continuing education and training and has, among other things, the establishment of a housing scheme in the business of teachers with pay and paid temporary staff. Further development of such a strategy towards a sabbatical year will make the teaching profession more interesting and better quality of teaching. I have noted with interest the opportunities the leader of the Norwegian Teacher Team points to today's Our Country, and hopes the commitment to such a measure increases. If we are to do so, teachers must also give priority to this with us politicians. Resources for schools are needed, but we must not deprive the municipalities of their responsibility for working conditions and premises. It's worrying if it's true that the school's share of resources is falling. We need increased resources to create a better school, which will have to be done if we're to succeed in developing new, good resource allocation models in school. I note that the Stortinget today joins in concreteising the strategies outlined by the Government in its communication. But if we're to succeed in recruiting the teaching profession, we also need a positive mention of the school and the opportunities in the teaching profession. When the teaching profession appears to be exciting and developing, new teachers will also be given.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1332	Let me first make a suggestion on behalf of the Workers' Party and SV, which goes on this with the number of pedagogues in the first class. The debate shows that there is a need for such a proposal, so it would be possible for all parties to vote for it. So to the Right's proposal on Finnmark: we have assessed this. We think the situation in Finnmark is dramatically worse than elsewhere. We have municipalities there over 50 pst. by the teachers, there is a lack of approved education. This is dramatic, so we're going to vote in favour of the Right proposal, not because we like the type of selective schemes targeted at certain parts of the country or because this solves some problem, but we might be able to use such selective schemes to distribute in a slightly better way. We may not get any more teachers of this in the short or long term, but we might be able to distribute the ones we have, in a slightly better way, so we're going to vote for it. So to this with competitive pay: it's been problematized and made a big topic. Today there is an imbalance between supply and demand. We don't get enough teachers -- that's the actual ratio. Competitive pay means something as simple as wages are such that we get a balance between supply and demand. That means we have to get more into the profession. I don't know how much higher the pay is to get this done, but I know that with today's pay level, we don't get it. We don't get the offer we're going to have, it doesn't match demand, and that's why we have to do something. And what we're saying then is that in the next few years we have to be mindful of the fact that the teacher groups have to have a higher wage growth than the other groups have. As I said, we're trying to signal that to those who negotiate pay on behalf of the state. I can't see that it's wrong that the Storting as the top employer – if we're going to think very formally – signals clearly to those who are going to pursue public government employers' policies, that there's no competitive pay today, we're not getting the number of teachers we're going to, and that's why it has to do something. Strengthening the school and facilitating that we get well-qualified people into school is the best bulwark we can build against privatisation. Being able to fend for the public, equivalent, multiplicity school is the best fight against privatisation. I'm not worried about the marginal establishment of private schools we've had so far, but I'm worried if large groups start talking about privatisation because the public school is too poor and doesn't get enough teachers. Then there's reason to be concerned. We should take that seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1343	Sir. Rikham has taken up the proposal he referred to. At present, the President will not intervene in later parts of today's map, but will suggest that if the number of three-minute posts does not exceed what is impossible, it could be thought that the President would propose that we run away from the next case at the morning meeting. These are just the thoughts of the president, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1350	I don't know if it was a coincidence that this just came when I was going to take the word? Maybe it wasn't? Anyway, I do. I want to open up saying something that might be a little surprising, namely that I disagree with the representative of Reikvam that there will be no more teachers of increased pay. Later, Reikvam drew a comment about the supply and demand that he stated that he also believed it would be. That's the point. Therefore, it is important that you also look at the positive aspects of recruitment packages that are given to improve recruitment. But I really took the word to remind both the Storting and the Government of the very serious situation in Kommune-Norway. That's now NOK 10 billion in deficit in Kommune-Norway. If growth and government can now agree to do something that is most important for our future, namely to strengthen the recruitment of the teaching profession and to improve wages, it must be followed up with the economy, and it must be followed up with a system other than that we have had today, that necessary and proper wage settlements must be compensated through the local economy. There's never been any tradition of it in this hall. But when the government is going to compensate the payroll in their own company, they come to the Stortinget and compensate the crown for the crown, and the Stortinget does not say anything soft! But when it comes to wage settlements that the state even negotiates the sea – the necessary wage settlement, they will get all the support for it – they have no tradition of compensating, not even for the wage settlements! And if we don't do it now at the same time as we take a thank you to strengthen teacher recruitment and strengthen teacher pay, this won't work out very well. We've re-examined this over and over again. This is about taking on the overall role of wages and employers that both growth and government have to perform and exercise in order to make it coherent. Now the government has said quite clearly that they want to retain the negotiating responsibility of the teachers. Then they have also assumed a great responsibility to bring this case into port in such a way that the school will do the tasks it has in society. Schools and education are the most important community-builder and the most important common arena we have. A good school is essential for each one to succeed in his life, and for society to make good use of its resources. Therefore, the pay of teachers is so important. That is why we need to raise our status and work so that we can do the most important job in a much better way than what we can do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1361	The parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party began his speech by congratulating him on the day and concluded that he was very concerned. I think the last one is more well-founded than the first one. Steensnæs' concern is explicitly directed towards recruiting real-time teachers for high school. The question I feel I need to ask after hearing the article is, Why in all the worlds is not doing Mr. Steensneed something with its concern — for example: as the parliamentary leader to instruct his committee fraction to join the Right-wing concrete proposals, which are precisely aimed at exempting both Steensnæs and others from this particular concern? There are quite a number of inputs that have emerged in this debate that are not directly suitable for solving the school recruitment problem. The chairman of the Committee took his speech – and I listened with great interest – to his epoch-making recording in Bergen’s Official Journal yesterday, that one really should lower the age of the ‘training obligation’ – because I realized that that was the point of her reasoning – to three years. And if it's in the hands of kindergarten or school, it's going to have about the same effect on increasing the consumption of people with educational education. So to the review theme that has shaped this debate, and which, of course, is the real issue when you have peeled off all the many interesting school purposes that have nothing to do with teacher recruitment at all – and that very many people have wanted to use this debate to talk about, namely pay policy. The representative Kristiansen finally referred to the position he and the government parties have jointly expressed in the position, as a ‘declaration of will’, and it sounds impressive. But why is it not possible to get an answer to what you want? Willing statements are of little value when they are speechless. And you've just said that they're supposed to be contents, it's a virtue, because otherwise you'd talk to the social partners, as you say, without even registering the fact that one of the parties mentioned in this case is the Norwegian state. The size of the population cannot have such a platonic relationship with the Norwegian state as to mean nothing about what the state should and should do. This declaration of will is becoming more and more peculiar as this debate progresses; it is becoming almost like a rain dance under foreign cultural conditions. They say they're right enough to understand what we mean even if we don't say that. And the council says that he understands well what they mean even if they don't say so. But God help me, why can't they say that when both parties get it anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1374	First of all, I hope that the proposal that the Workers' Party has put on the table today becomes a transmission proposal, because I think the Council of State has answered quite well that he has taken the initiative and will come back to Stortinget with that matter. Then I would like to comment on Document No. 8:7 from the Right, where they say they're going to strengthen the elementary school's childhood. The Christian People's Party does not support the proposal that has been put forward, because we do not believe it strengthens the high school. At least we believe that it will not strengthen the role of students in school. They propose to reorganise primary school youth in order to increase freedom of choice and professional immersion. We believe that through test paragraphs and new regulations to the Training Act, we offer the right options, both professionally and organisationally. There is greater freedom of choice and great opportunities for professional immersion. It is difficult to see that the Right in its proposal asks for something other than permanent classes and groups broken down by abilities. Here we have to use the possibilities of law, regulations and curricula. The second proposal is that the electoral profession should include admission to higher education. The right will direct the electoral professions in high school. The Christian People's Party believes that this should be a free trade without a character press. We don't want to run the elections in high school the way that Right will. Then you have to ask yourself who should be involved in what choice subject, and what choice is it best to have the school set up? We need to be aware that young people's interests, abilities and facilities are developing very much in their youth, and it is sad if they are already in high school from the first year, and the first time they have to choose an electoral profession, they have to think about choosing them here in order to enter higher education. The right-hand proposal will destroy the choice of upper secondary education, both for the school when it comes to proposing and creating new groups for the electives, and for the students who have so far been able to use the electoral professions freely, as desired and as needed. I also want to clarify once again that the proposal to release the requirement of two first-class educators is not about removing the two pedagogues – no one is saying. But we're making an opening for the school itself to be the one who chooses what's best for the school there and then. It can increase the adult density, and we say that the resources should be retained.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1387	We've talked very little about geographical differentiation of teacher's wages. And you might wonder when you recognize – and I think everyone can – that there are huge differences in the cost of living and living in this diverse and heterogeneous country. It might be more natural, given that competitive wages according to Reikvam are a balance between supply and demand, to say yes to a geographical differentiation that will make it easier to cope with the fact that especially Oslo and Akershus, the most popular area throughout Norway, are now in a situation where the number of unskilled teachers is dramatically increasing. It goes beyond a significantly larger number of children here than that, for example. make substantially more widely populated strips, which have tool packages to hold them. If we are in favour of a geographical differentiation based on minimum wages and local subsidies, we will be able to get what Reikvam asks for: yes, thank you, both. But we discussed it last week, and I didn't see that there was any particular desire or willingness to go into alternative solutions. We still have the old package that we've had in this house for many, many years, with instruments for almost every municipality that is not closely connected to a central railway station or something like that, and equal pay to everyone within some given particular profession. This is a hopeless policy, and it must soon be more than the Progress Party willing to accept. Tom Weierød, adm. Director of the Local Governments' Central Association, said in a letter that biging and government helps create an A4-Norway that is not adapted to modern people's wishes and needs. And it's pretty strong, but it gives a reasonable explanation as to why the Communes' Central Alliance is as extremely dangerous as the negotiator's counterpart for teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1394	The President has recorded that the light may be of concern to some representatives, but it has required higher powers to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1397	I hope it doesn't say anything about us sitting in here, that we're pulling the curtains at the end of this debate. It was Rolf Reikvam who made me take the floor – I thought I would be happy to tell him that – because he announced that SV will vote in favour of the proposal from the Right regarding the instrument scheme in North Norway. It is not that, when we do not vote in favour of this proposal, we are necessarily against it; in fact, it is a majority, all except the Advance Party, who believe that the situation with regard to teacher recruitment in Finnmark is so serious that action is necessary without waiting for the evaluation of the instrument in 2003. In other words, it is a majority who are asking for action. Several measures then need to be considered, and this must be one of the measures that should be considered, and the Government may come back with it, for example. in the budget. I would just have said this here in the debate, so that there's no idea that we're opposed to doing something to improve the situation in Finnmark. I just want to comment on the previous post saying that there's a difference between a cand.mag. from the university as a job but lacking additional education and thus defined as unqualified, and one that may not even have secondary education and jobs as a teacher. We also have to include that in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1406	There's getting a little bit of speed in the debate right now. We got a disagreement in SV in terms of what is the right salary. It became a little exciting suddenly, but I think it's based on a little misunderstanding. At least I've spent most of the day – we've been on for four and a half hours – talking about pay as a tool for recruiting more teachers. I think there's quite a broad consensus in our party that it's pay that is both in the short and long term the most effective means of working if we're going to be able to get more teachers. Those who are educated as teachers and who are in a position of choice where they can choose other occupations, we must get into school, and we must also try to motivate young people, 19-year-olds, who are on a path to what kind of education they are going to take, to get them to take teacher training, and then we think pay is the best way to do it. Then I want to provoke the Workers' Party and the others a little more on this with a declaration of will. It's still a little bit unclear to me what this is. There might be something positive, I'm assuming, and it seems like the Council of State is taking it positively. A declaration of will must be something more than expressing a will. I assume that this must result in an action somewhere, that the Workers' Party wants it to lead to action somewhere – that the Council of State, if not the Minister of the Church, at least the Minister of Administration, takes up this declaration of will and somehow translates it into action. If that means, we're actually on the way. We agree if it means that in the forthcoming negotiations with the teacher organisations this year, next year and beyond, the government is prepared to say yes to the teachers' groups, that the offers to be submitted to the teacher groups must be higher than those made available to other groups, just to ensure recruitment. If that is what this declaration of will means, I can say that we will vote for it, but that is not possible, because a declaration of will is not a proposal, so we are not even allowed to vote for it. Rune Kristiansen has today called on us to vote for something for which it is not possible to vote, because it is as a comment, but if he had formulated this declaration of will as a proposal and that means what I say, it would certainly have received SV's votes, and I am sure that the Right will also vote for it if that's what it means. So a little bit about the development pot that the Workers' Party has proposed. I wish we had a system of a minimum-hour resource that was so high that in this pot, in this minimum-hour resource, resources were also for development work. And if we had come back to what we had in our youth ten years ago, with 47 1⁄2 hours, I think it would have been a real boost for the youth. Then there would also be resources for both development and much more exciting at that stage, I am quite convinced of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1415	A number of the proposals under consideration today will improve the recruitment situation. Of course, there is a need to increase the number of pedagogical staff also for the very smallest children, although the Council of State in the documents we have for treatment indicates that in some years there will be sufficient staffing on the pre-school teacher’s side. But I think that the fusion of kindergarten and primary education needs to be further developed, preferably through many trials. The Labour Party has also signalled at the presentation of the nursery notice that the children should be entitled to a kindergarten offer, and then, in my opinion, a pedagogically organized scheme that can be phased in gradually. We now know that the difference between those who don't have good support at home and those who have it is dramatic, and that many people don't do so strongly when they're going to school in their 6-year-old age, when they've neither been familiar with a PC nor had anyone to read for themselves and have an unsafe background. On the part of society, this must be about providing children with security in order to be able to master learning in the next round. In the case of wages and salaries, it is clear that Inge Wohnung does not understand what the majority has indicated as an attitude towards those to negotiate. But now the representative is begging Reikvam to be allowed to join this majority, and it seems as if he is starting to understand it. But at least it's liberating that, unlike Inge Wage, the Council of State understands it, because that's actually what's the most important thing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1424	Anne Brit Stråtvei has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1427	Although the debate here has been very much about wages, I would like to end up clarifying that many different instruments need to be implemented. In St.meld. No 12 proposes a number of measures to be taken by the Government, and I am really pleased that, through the debate and through the vote, all these proposals have been implemented. The case-speaker started with a few words about pessimism and arrogance among teachers today. The notification refers to a study showing that nine out of ten are satisfied with the working situation. Another study shows that 80 pst. thrives in school. This has to happen, we have to focus on -- it will be one of the best ways to recruit for the teaching profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1432	The next speaker is Petter Løvik. Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Løvik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to one minute. The President has read wrong. Sir. Løvik has 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1435	To the comfort of the President: the right has previously shown the problems we have in the Norwegian community with both read and write difficulties. I don't get time in a brief article to go into this now, so the president gets to excuse me. What got me to ask for the floor was that I thought the representative, Mr Konglevoll, summarized the debate we have had in the Stortinget today by saying about our Finnmark proposal that it is that they do not vote for the proposal, not that they are against it. And I feel that this has been a review tone in a lot of areas. We have had a situation where the majority have said that they see the problems that so few of those who take the main course go into school, but they won't do anything about it, they won't support Right's proposal, they won't come up with any alternative proposals, they just want to attach the proposal to the protocol. And where was it from what I wanted in my main post -- what Jagland said about that we need more lecturers? It was said one week before the school focus choice. Today, no one has responded to how one will follow up what Jagland promised then, and I also refer to what he said that we would like to come back to this just before the pay break. Right, to take Jagland on the floor. We see the problems of youth. Several have said that this step is a bottleneck in the Norwegian school system. The youth class is sensitive, and I think we're all a few people who need more freedom of choice, but going into such proposals won't be the Stortinget, even if they see the problems. This proposal is not only annexed to the Protocol, it is rejected by Stortingen after what is in the documents, and it is even less appropriate. The whole Stortinget sees that the salary level is important. The majority will not give a signal, but leave it to the scribes and interpreters to understand what the Storting basically meant by the importance of the salary level. Finally: SV and Right are in many ways different in school policy, we are among others. dissenting about the role of private schools. Right looks at these as a very useful supplement, among other things. to the public supply. But I fully agree with what the representative, Mr Reikvam, said that a good and exciting public school is the most important thing. But the private spheres also have a value in themselves, so that they become a competitor and a stimulant for the public school. This is once again proof that competition is strengthening, and we're all going to take a positive view of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1450	No pay has had the word twice before and gets the word to a brief remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1454	The chairperson of the Committee confirmed my most apprehensions in his last post. Because when the reason for merging kindergarten and school is that there are some three-year-olds who have not yet learned to use the PC, the only possible logical consequence of this is that there is a training obligation to be introduced to catch everyone from the age of 3. Willing statements can be so often. There are some declarations of intent that have content, and there are some that do not. But there are also varying degrees of strength in declarations of intent. ‘Good Christmas’ is also a declaration of will, but it is of those declarations of will that rarely dramatically change reality. I must say at the bottom of this debate that it is still impossible to get a clear response from the majority on what is really thought about the pay policy in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1463	There's one theme that I don't think has been affected at all, and that certainly can't be said to have anything to do with teacher recruitment directly, and that's the situation of cross-country schools. I think it is important that we mention it here in this debate, because with the change that we are now going to be going to try out in terms of different resource allocations, I would ask the Council of State to pay particular attention to the situation of schools across the board. We see today that in many municipalities there is a great deal of pressure in the primary school with subsequent relocation. I think there's consensus in this room that the school is the most important institution in a community, and if resources are to be distributed more by student numbers, it could threaten the potential of cross-border schools. That's why one has to have this for the eye. I am confident that the Council of State will take note of this and take it into account in its assessments when developing new allocation models.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1470	I asked for the floor because the committee leader thought I was begging and asking for permission to vote on something that the Labour Party had promoted. I have not yet seen what they have promoted, but I was very busy trying to get them to concrete it in a proposal. And if there was a proposal, as I assumed this declaration of will had to be understood as, I was willing to vote for it – a declaration of will that would then result in action, and that we dare to say it through a decision. But I haven't seen it yet, so I haven't asked for anything yet, just so it's said. Then to the Right and the teacher's training. I am somewhat surprised that the Right has not been in favour of our proposals regarding teacher training. We've clearly pointed out some of the problems of today's teacher training, it's too rigid, it's too flexible, and we've also tried to put teacher training more in the context of mastering, that is. a three-year study first and then a two-year study afterwards, which in many ways could be exciting. In the last two years, we could get a professional depression, and we could get a pedagogical breadth. That would be very exciting. I would think that the Right was concerned with such thoughts, but this they have not supported, and it surprises me somewhat. So to this end of getting new occupational groups into school, which in many ways have become a semantic semantics for many. The Committee has been reasonably clear that we don't want to clientise our students, because when we talk about new professional groups, we often talk about different social workers, and we talk about child protection educators and that kind of professional staff. We have to have a wider perspective on this when we're going to involve new groups of professionals in school, because otherwise we're left with a clientization of the students, and it would be an accident if we got into such a situation. So in the end -- this is what I expect to be my last post in this debate: what we are doing now, and the means we are now putting in, is the best and most important bobs, as I said before, for a defense for the public school. If we can't recruit enough teachers and build up the public school and ensure a good standard on it in terms of both resources and well-trained teachers, we will notice the pressure for privatisation. So we're not talking about small groups, 1 and 1/2 pst, of the people who want private schools, but we can imagine larger groups. So what we're doing today, and the further work on these questions, is the most important bulwark against privatisation. That's what I hope the Council of State will take along in the further work, because if we lose in this area, we can lose the public school, and it'll be a tragedy for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1481	Several have not asked for the floor, and the debate in Cases 1 to 4 is therefore over. The President believes he would have been better off if in a previous intervention he had expressed himself as being by nature a pessimistic. [[See page 2309]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1499	Every week I get phones from students, students and parents who face insurmountable problems in the school system because they have difficulty reading and writing. Most people experience this as broken and stigmatizing that they don't want their name out publicly. Young people fight ignorance, prejudice, dissatisfaction and exclusion to get access to what we tell them is the most important thing they can spend time and their cancers, namely school and education. Reading and writing difficulties are an old problem, it's a big problem for those affected, and it's taken too long to get something done with this. A modern knowledge and competence society cannot handle society's most important resource, children and young people, in this way. It's a bad social economy, it's a waste of human resources and it's discrimination against individuals. There is a lack of legislation to ensure that students with difficulty in reading and writing are entitled to an appropriate examination. There is a lack of systematic effort to identify good evaluation and examination methods that ensure both adaptation and quality. Now the coincidences are happening. Some schools have both good insight and good will, others have none. In a way, you have to check whether you're going to choose school, so you can find a department, a teacher or a school that has understanding and competence in this area. A specific case has now made it possible to put the matter to the light. A student at BI has experienced the coincidences and taken the personal risk of giving a face and a personal story to the matter. The school addresses students with documented reading and writing difficulties, but neither internal regulations nor mild recommendations from the education authorities help in the practice of the fine promises of completion of the studies. It'll be a fight from exam to exam to get the necessary arrangements. There are practical problems in obtaining a sensor, for example: The student is on to get a sensor seam, yet the school is unable to get it. In retrospect, when the media's searchlight gets uncomfortable and the impression of a school that only thinks money and doesn't offer a modern and up-to-date offer to all students, partying, trying to fix, but only half-hearted. In future exams you can get adapted exams, but old exams that you haven't clear because you haven't adapted them have to be re-recorded in the old way. Then you create a solution that you have to know it's not possible to pass for those who have such problems. This is where the attitudes are most evident today. Initially, adapted arrangements must be made, but the school obviously does not rely on its own quality assurance of adapted examinations. It makes sense that an adapted exam is a kind of exam light, not strict enough or not good enough. That's why you ask for a written, old-fashioned exam first, and then get on with the system in order to adapt the exam in the future. There's no point hanging out a school or BI, which this is all about, especially, because I don't think they're either worse or better than others. In fact, I believe that in some areas they are better, at least in some departments. What is different with BI is that they take good care of students who have to go again because they have not been given the opportunity they should have to carry out a study offer they have come up with and for which they have paid. BI have, as said, other departments that have come a long way in this work, and they may have an incredible amount to learn from their sails if they had this higher up on the agenda. I have several other issues from public colleges and universities, so the main problem here is not whether it's a public school or a private school, the main problem is that you don't have a system to handle these matters properly. 40-50 years ago, we knew little about read and write difficulties. Today we know much more, but the prejudices live well. And to make it clear, there are people with very low IQs who can learn how to read and write perfectly well. Similarly, there are people with very high IQs who are unable to solve the code. And that code is very important to be able to solve in our society. Similarly, old learning methods and old examination and test forms continue to live on. Methods are being developed, but are being used too little. Basic training in reading and writing is part of the primary tasks of primary school. Nevertheless, there is too little room for teacher training. Anyone who visits a classroom will notice how strikingly different children are, even though they are the same age. Prerequisites, temperament, motorism, interests, maturity – everything is different. Everyone's special. But it's in one area we're equal, and it's in need of success, to get something else. Then we grow and grow strong and thrive. Students who fail in this system do not get it easily. And it's not an easy task to facilitate the school day to be equally good both professionally and socially for everyone, but it's absolutely vital that we get it done, both for the individual and for society. In a modern knowledge and competence society, it becomes more important than ever to ensure that everyone has the opportunity to develop their abilities and talents on the basis of their assumptions. For the individual, this will be the key to inclusion in social communities, to work, to being able to have as much control as possible over their own lives and not to end up in debauchery and marginalisation. For society, humans are the most important and perhaps the only decent resource. So an organized exam should not be an easier exam. I want to make it firm. It shall have the same requirements for subjects, for understanding and competence as traditional written examinations. Ensuring quality is crucial. It is not about compensating for learning difficulties by reducing knowledge requirements. The examination conditions and methods used to test the level of knowledge are to be organised. New methods suitable for the group of people with reading and writing disabilities are needed to be developed. But it can also prove that these methods can be very suitable, equally suitable and perhaps sometimes better than traditional methods that have been used over several years. So a real commitment to a development work in this area I think I can benefit the entire school system. It is still a long time before our evaluation and examination methods are in line with what to do in working life. In a modern society, these methods need to be changed in line with what we want to measure — it also changes very much — whether there is reproduction of facts or whether there is a working method, insight and understanding to measure. It is clear that then there are completely different measurement methods to enter. In a modern society, our social skills will be of great importance. It also requires that you can evaluate in a different way from today. So the question I want to ask the Minister today is not whether we're going to get this done, but when? I hope that the Council of State can be quite specific on that, because I'm patient, but I feel that you've waited too long to solve such questions. I have consulted the legislation on how this is to be done, and I see that, as it is now, it is too random, and that it is left up to the individual school whether they think they can afford it, whether they think they can do it, whether they think they have competence and whether they think this is important. It's important to do this, because we have a duty to do it in relation to the individual student who has a right to use his abilities and facilities, and because society cannot afford to waste our important resources. I hope that the Council of State today will be able to give a clear answer as to when we can solve these problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1543	The representative, Karin Andersen, raises important questions in the interpellation for a specific group in right-wing education, students with reading and writing difficulties. There is no doubt that students who have this kind of difficulty have tiresome and still labored heavily with their studies. As a result, I found it positive that Andersen's representative would highlight it and look at current issues on the agenda in this way – and require answers. Let me state at the same time that knowledge and competence in this field have been improved monthly over the last few years. That means that many more people get skilled help than before. I need to say that many people in schools and colleges make a great and valuable effort to help elephants and students with reading and writing problems. In the same way, we still have a good way to go, not least within right-hand education. Some of the questions raised in the interview were raised in Question Time on February 2nd this year. I commented on this point, among others. questions related to difficulties in recording right-hand education. Here, many young people with dyslexia face the first obstacles. Reading and writing difficulties naturally seem to interfere with the further training and with the diploma of the applicant, both in terms of grades and in relation to professional combinations. I also remind you that dyslexics may be exempted from secondary objectives in continuing training, and that this will be taken into account in the admission to right-hand education. As I said in my answer in Question Time, the current regulation on general study competence does not provide for a derogation from the right-hand training requirements for applicants, such as: has documented dyslexia or dyscalculia. I have taken the initiative to assess the regulatory nature of such a derogation on a case-by-case basis. I also mention that the new rule on ranking applicants for universities and colleges still gives the opportunity to assess specific applicants who believe that the diploma from further training does not give a correct picture of the real qualifications that the seeker thinks he has. The basis for such specific assessment may include: if conditions such as dyslexia or dyscalculia. I further briefed in my answer in Question Time on 2 February that the Department is now hearing a proposal on changes in university and højskulelova that will open up for adults over 25 years of age to be admitted to right-wing education on the basis of assessed real competences. Of course, this is something that can open a door to such training for new groups with serious reading and writing difficulties. However, the work is not done when a student is sure to be admitted to a study. That's when the job starts. This is primarily the situation under way in the study itself and in particular the organisation of test situations for the examination representative Karin Andersen focuses on the interpellation. Of course, I fully agree that such questions are entirely central to the objective of ensuring real access to a right-hand study. Universities and universities require each educational institution to facilitate students to conduct their studies in an ordinary way. Of course, this responsibility also applies to students who have special difficulties. Students with dyslexia include: the need for practical assistance such as: light material and PC in their study situation. It is the individual school that is responsible for assessing the extent to which a specific organisation must be organised. The governance of the Disability Action Plan requires all universities and higher education institutions to make action plans for disabled students. The Ministry has highlighted this requirement specifically in the budget circular for the current financial year. The learning places will report on the work on action plans during the spring. It is therefore too early to say anything about the status of such planning now. From my point of view, the local action plans will be important travel agents in improving the study situation optimally and in practice create a better everyday life at the school for disabled students. Although it is not common to refer to dyslexics as disabled people, there is no doubt that students with these kinds of problems need special support and organisation both in the course of their studies and in the course of their exams. Issues of special organisation or exemption from the examination are relatively often addressed with the department. Universitets- und højskulelova beats among others fixed that: ‘The Board shall ensure that the knowledge and skills of the students are tested and assessed in an impartial and professional manner. The assessment shall also ensure the professional level of the study concerned.’» It goes on to say: ‘The Board itself shall lay down rules on the conduct and conduct of examinations and tests, including conditions for examination or re-examination or for access to a new period of practice, and provisions on notification and conditions for notification... The Board may delegate to each department itself supplementary rules on matters specific to each examination.’ The law is therefore clear that the institutions themselves, within the legal framework, determine the scope of organisation. There are several ways to take, not least available resources, the number of students in need of organisation and the professional requirements that must apply to the individual study. There will always be questions about finding a balance between specific organisation and ensuring that the professional requirements for knowledge and insight are not lower than those for example. students with dyslexia than other students. The representative Karin Andersen points out that many students with reading and writing difficulties experience problems with poor organisation of examination situations. I think we should admit that the practice of institutions today varies a lot. I've decided that several higher education institutions and universities go a long way with schemes such as these. candidates with dyslexia may be allowed to have extended examination periods, the provision of own examination rooms with a PC, the possibility of re-notification to the sensor of dyslexia problems and the provision of oral examinations. At the same time, I have also received feedback on matters that the representative Karin Andersen mentions, that students do not receive such offers as they both want and need. Of course, this should not be the case. I said in Question Time on 2 February that I have taken the initiative to set up a working group to look at problems that students with dyslexia and dyscalculia experience in higher education. The user environment, in this case the Dyslexia network, is part of this group, which is now ready for startup. It shall discuss relevant issues and propose concrete measures relating to admission, the need for organisation during the study and during the examination, access to information, etc. The group has been asked to review the practice of the different institutions and to assess whether there is a need for common rules or minimum requirements on the part of the department. When I have looked down on this working group, it is a clear desire to do something about the problems that the representative, Karin Andersen, points to in the interpellation. The working group will report on concrete proposals in early autumn, in September 2000. On the basis of this work, I will support a rapid follow-up policy. Such matters are very difficult. There's already a good deal of legislation that's good, and some practices that are good. But I'm still discovering that we're not reaching out in informational matters where there are few people that it's indebted to. When I became the Council of State, I lived in the naive notion that when I, as the Council of State, decided something, it was like this. I have to admit that there is a way between something being determined and being so. Therefore, we have a job to do in relation to getting these action plans completed in the institutions, and we need to find out who people can turn to when they don't get help. One cannot expect Karin Andersen to handle all the questions, nor the Dyslexia. I see that here we have a way to go. I have a lot of audacity in relation to this, but I've actually taken hold of it, it's on the way, and we're going to reach the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-02.ana.ud2251e1583	The regulatory time of the morning meeting is now at hand. The meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
