ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e39	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of today’s Odelstinget meeting – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e44	I propose Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e49	Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen is proposed as President-in-Office. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e61	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and Mr Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there should be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e68	This case concerns two amendments to the Rules of Procedure. The first amendment concerns access to the appointment of an alternate of the chairperson of the court. It has been a topic that we need to strengthen justice in particularly comprehensive and difficult cases, including: has been discussed in the Committee on the Structures of the Courts of Lords and Mayors in NOU 1999:22, and it has also been addressed in an initiative of Stavanger City Law, which has linked it to a particular case that is currently under consideration quite soon. This type of reinforced right rises a number of principal questions that I choose not to hold any lecture about now. There are also issues that have not been addressed or examined by the Committee during the examination of this amendment. We have pointed out that this is just raising questions of principle, and that this should therefore be properly assessed by the Dispute Goals Committee before the Stortinget may get such a case to be dealt with, but that there is, to the most extent, a question that should be looked at. What we are now proposing is access to appoint a property judge who can step in by illness or other defaults from the court's administrator, and that's a lot less intervention. There is something we want to introduce not only for civil matters contained in this odelstingsproposition, but also for criminal cases mentioned in Ot.prp. No 3 for 1999-2000, which we will deal with afterwards. The system we are now in is not going to change the power relationship between trade unions and the co-judgments, and so the valuer has to play a role after that. We're not going to have two administrators of the court. The respondent may have to be allowed to ask questions during the main proceedings if he/she is to be able to jump in as the head of the case if necessary, but the role must nevertheless be as withdrawn as possible, so that the force ratio is not distorted in any way. The Committee points to something that has not been raised in the proposal, namely that when the case is brought before the Court, negotiations may also extend over time. Of course, this is especially true in matters that are comprehensive and complex. The Committee considers that, by way of exception, an adjudicator may also take part in these hearings, but there is an exception which must be used with caution because the situation is fundamentally different when the case is brought to judgment with the discussions that are then taking place, than the situation that is at the time of the main negotiation. The second amendment proposed in the proposal is of a completely different nature. It's about uniting or merging things. When there are several cases on a person, or there are situations in which several people are involved in a case, the rules today are that they can be joined together for joint treatment in one case, but this should only be done if it can be done without significant delay and without difficulty. Actually, today’s legal text should have been sufficient, but it turns out in practice that such unification is taking place despite significant delays and despite other difficulties. It is a paradox that a perpetrator can commit new offences while waiting for the previous crimes to be completed in the judicial system. It is quite across the signals a unanimous committee has sent several times, at the latest in the debate in Stortinget here today, about a rapid reaction to a crime so that we can thus prevent new ones. In addition, there is one more side, namely that the victim is entitled to release the burden it entails when it withdraws before a judgment falls into the case. The Committee assumes that the change we are making now, where we insert ‘unify’ in the legal text, will bring about a real change in practice. That is what the legislator intends to do with the amendment of the law. The Committee considers that if cases are to a lesser extent brought together, there may be a risk that residues will be disposed of more widely. We hope that this does not happen, and we assume that this is not the case particularly in cases where there are individuals affected by the
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e90	I would just like to make a relatively brief comment on what the second part of the amendment is about, which is what is at stake in judging individual cases rather than in collecting criminal offences – as it is closely related to the case we had earlier today in Stortinget. What I am concerned about, given the inertia that is often found in the system, is that when we now change the text of the law to ‘united in one case’, it must in practice mean that the usual thing now is to deal with matters individually, so that it becomes a clear signal, and that we do not continue to get the same practice as it is today. Because it's true, as Ane Sofie Tmärås said, today's legislation could be sufficient, but it isn't. So what the Committee and the Labour Party expect is that today's practice is changing. This is one of the important measures in the chain of actions that has been discussed in the past to get the so-called recurrences out of circulation. I hope that today's change in law will be the first step in this direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e98	Shortly after the new year, the Ministry promoted a small proposition on two amendments to the procedural law. In view of the fact that one amendment should be made before the so-called Balder case is brought before Stavanger City Court on 1 March 2000, I would particularly like to thank the Judicial Committee for the prompt examination of the matter. Both proposals in the proposal are of importance in order to ensure a faster and more effective judicial procedure. The proposal on the use of property judges in particularly extensive civil cases will prevent cases from reopening due to the default of the judge. The risk of having to re-examine all or part of a long-term main negotiation would have been eliminated far on the road. The use of judgments would result in the total economic cost to the court and the parties much less than would otherwise have been if the judge had lapsed. The second proposal, which concerns the amendment of the rules on the unification of criminal cases, will have importance in reducing the length of proceedings in such cases. I expect that the change can increase the effectiveness of both the prosecution and the courts. The aim is for some criminal cases to be convicted earlier than is the case today. It will have a positive impact both on the general and on individuals, and one should see this proposal in conjunction with all the measures currently being taken to ensure the effectiveness of the criminal action chain.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e109	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 277]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e123	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate also be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there should be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e132	On many occasions, the Justice Committee has pointed out the importance of a short period of time between a crime and a response from the offender. It is unsustainable that weeks, months and sometimes years from something has been done, until society shows its reaction. It's very unfortunate to first-time offenders, who can thus become even more involved in crime since no response comes. It's also very unfortunate to repeaters, who get time and opportunity to commit more crimes. For civil matters, too, it is important that matters go well through the legal system. That way people will get their right faster. In many cases, unexplained legal conditions can be unsustainable over a long period of time. The Committee therefore welcomes the fact that the Government has now presented a proposal with a number of amendments which could make the passage through the one paragraph more effective, namely the courts. There is no revolution the government has added. Most of the changes can hardly be called "principal". On the other hand, it is a series of small steps that separately clear up a little, and hopefully will lead to a slightly more effective judicial system. On the other hand, the Committee stresses that efficiency should not be at the expense of legal certainty for individuals. Despite the fact that this setting is hardly popular, the Committee has tried to provide a political explanation as to why we are going to accept the various changes. The proposition is very technical, with little emphasis on the political motivation behind the changes. Several of the changes have been addressed on the initiative of the courts themselves, and it is commendable that the courts themselves are seeking more effective and simpler rules of procedure. Proposals have been collected from several letters of consultation from 1996 to 1998. One thing that can confuse both the layman and the learned today is all the different deadlines for using a remedy. We have two months for ordinary ducks, two weeks for love, one month for refreshment, and also a bunch of special time limits in the law. This can be pretty chaotic to deal with, and besides, it's the serious thing since people can lose their rights because you've been dealing with wrong temptations in the best faith. That's why we're cutting through and setting a common deadline of one month. That deadline is likely to be a challenge for large-scale appeals, and in particular where the decision on an appeal is to be taken in several stages, such as in a large enterprise or in municipal administration, where perhaps a nationally elected body should also be involved. However, the Committee feels that this must be affordable. This means that legal proceedings need to be brought in a more rapid manner to ensure that such decisions are taken in time. This also means that discussions around a settlement must get moving more quickly. Such pressure on the parties may well be timely. For some cases, especially in the case of love, a month will be unnecessary for a long time. However, the two-week period is rarely used today, and there is no reason to believe that love will come in later even if it becomes accessible, as it is in the parties' own interest to promote them quickly. The Committee expects that the revision of time limits in different special laws will end in the future with the common deadline of one month, so that a common legal remedy time-limit will gradually be established throughout the legislative framework. As I mentioned, there are several practical steps that can get cases faster through the court system. For example, I can. mention: The lawyers themselves send copies of the process writing to the parties. Then the courts release that work, and the counterparty receives it earlier. A higher right may decide on the costs of the case when the case is properly informed, and does not send the question back to an underlying right for re-examination. Witnesses are generally called by the parties and not in the old-fashioned and cumbersome way of preaching from the court. The division of competences between a team member and a team member in the event of an appeal shall be deleted. This way you avoid an extra round in the system. A general attendance requirement for witnesses is introduced. The rules on exemptions due to travel distances have not changed since 1915, while the communication possibilities are quite different today than at the time. Exemptions shall now be granted only exceptionally. In this context, the Committee will also refer to the new technological opportunities we have with remote sensing, etc., and assumes that this will be applied to a greater extent than today. The Committee is also in favour of several changes which must be known as good consumer policy or protection for most people. For example, we're overfulfilling the Lugano Convention, and there's no need for us to do that. The defendant shall now deal with his own protection. The protection of the defendant shall only apply where he has resided outside Norway. We want to protect witnesses from the possible sheiks and threats, because they don't have to enter an address in court. It is in line with the Committee's point when similar action was taken in criminal matters. It is likely to be relevant in a smaller proportion of civil matters, but it is equally necessary for the witness who needed it. Furthermore, not providing an address is a modest and innocent measure, not least in relation to more extensive measures being considered to protect witnesses. Another example of good consumer policy is that the sale of goods, in particular cars not purchased from craftsmen, can now be made through the man in charge. It is easier than forced auctioning and gives the purchaser assurance that encumbrances have been removed. Another example is that, in the case of forced use of real estate, forced use can now also be applied to in-service property and warehouses which are closely related to the property and its operation. We also get similar rules for the forced sale of housing, whether you own the dwelling or you rent it, which is typical of housing law. The Committee is also in favour of derogating from the normal rules on viability, so that forced sales of dwellings can also be made by a bank's real estate agent, thereby increasing the chances of obtaining the highest possible price. Furthermore, we want to strengthen the role of the Conciliation Council. So we can also relieve the ordinary legal system. There are a number of issues that can be relieved by the fact that matters against the State and the municipality can also be brought before the Conciliation Board, and also by the procedure that is applied when we open the way for the parties to meet in the Conciliation Board, even if the respondent agrees with the claim from the complainant. At a meeting of the Conciliation Council, there is a greater chance that reasonable solutions can be found on how the respondent can meet the requirement, and thus we can be in the forefront and avoid legal proceedings because one cannot meet the requirement. We also make some changes to the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Court, and at least one of them is quite lengthened. This concerns access to a trial lawyer on both sides of a case. The Committee emphasises that it will maintain the arrangements for a lawyer to prove himself fit to bring proceedings before the Supreme Court in two cases before she is allowed to bring proceedings before our Supreme Court. However, in some cases it may strengthen legal certainty that a trial lawyer is in charge of the case. The assumption must be that the same lawyer has brought the case before the underlying court, and that special reasons make it appropriate for her to continue to conduct it. Such reasons may be that the matter is particularly large and extensive, or that a particular trust relationship between the lawyer and the party is important in the matter. There may be individual cases where such reasons make it reasonable for trial lawyers to be released on both sides of a case. Furthermore, the Committee is in favour of limiting any possibility of providing new evidence and circumstances after the Committee has referred an appeal to the Supreme Court. Today, we see that things can change the nature and character of things because of new input from the parties, and therefore the very basis for the referral is different than the Supreme Court ends up dealing with it. The Committee considers that this need to be avoided and is therefore in favour of the proposed amendment. However, the Committee is aware that the purpose of the amendment is to prevent the matter from taking on a new character. New evidence and circumstances that do not prejudge the nature of the case should therefore be accepted by the Committee. This is one of the points in the proposition where the new rule must be applied wisely to ensure that legal certainty is not impaired. Another point that the Committee is somewhat hesitant about is the length of time before the expiry of a fine. With regard to other types of limitation periods, the Committee considers that five years appear to be the most reasonable. However, there is also the possibility of wage increases over five years, as in the case of tax deductions, and the Committee sees that the central government collection centre may thus need some more time to collect the money. We therefore join a ten-year limitation period. It's just in one change the concerns are so big that there's one person in the setting. The working party will not be able to extend the right to proceed directly to the main negotiation during an oral preparatory meeting when both parties oppose it. As the entire Committee stresses, such a meeting is intended to prepare for the main debate. However, if the case is uncomplicated and seems sufficiently well informed, the judge has today the right to execute a judgment immediately, even if one party opposes it. The majority now agree that the judge should be able to pass judgment when it is unthinkable to do so, even if both parties oppose it. The Labour Party is in the view that a unanimous judiciary had the last time this proposal was up: there will hardly be a case in which it is unthinkable to pass a judgment immediately if both parties object that it should happen. In addition, the Workers’ Party considers that such overruns may be inappropriate in terms of legal certainty. Moreover, there is minimal, if any, efficiency gains to be obtained, as this will concern very few issues. With regard to the rules on the sale of pledged movable property, the Committee supports the simplification of the rules. Now that we had the rules on handcuffs on the table, the Workers' Party wanted a complete overhaul of the system. This is a way of obtaining credit that occurred a long time ago – at a time when mortgageing personal valuables for many was the only way to obtain credit. Fortunately, this is no longer the case. In the Workers' Party, we therefore wanted to know the extent to which the scheme is being used, the extent to which articles submitted are being forced to sell, the extent to which part of this market is under supervision and is being registered, and also to have an assessment of the appropriateness and effectiveness of this scheme. Unfortunately, we stayed standing all alone about this wish. But since the Minister of Justice is known for being a powerful and active man, I feel confident that no one will hang him if he would still think that there was a reason to look into the arrangement with a handcuff. Yes, this was a discretionary selection of a number of changes in our court order laws. There are many people I haven't mentioned, so it's just to solve the situation of someone who wants to have a better insight into more effective actions in the courts. Well done!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e197	The President assumes that hanging the Council of State was not literally meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e200	Government proposal in Ot.prp. No 3 On the law relating to changes in the law of the courts, etc. is today adopted by Odelstinget. This means, in general terms, some changes, harmonisations and simplifications that better adapt procedural legislation to the reality of everyday life. However, it is important that a more effective and rapid procedure is not at the expense of legal certainty. The Christian People's Party does not think this will happen in connection with these changes, but it is important to keep the issue alive and up to date. The thorough review that the rapporteur had of the content of the vote, which underlined the broad agreement between the Government and the Judicial Committee, means that I limit the comments to a few individual aspects of the vote. First to the point. 3.10 where the Labour Party separates teams from the other committee in the issues of increased access to the main negotiation in an oral hearing. The Government’s proposal means that the judge may in fact decide that the parties to a dispute shall proceed directly to the main hearing of the oral hearing with subsequent judgment, even if either or both parties oppose it. My first reaction was strong doubt, not only about the appropriateness, but also about the correctness of legislating access to the right to determine direct transition to the main negotiation when both parties oppose this. Yes, I also assessed whether it would not be a small estimate of the democracy of the legal society to deprive a person of the opportunity to get his case better informed than the preparation that takes place at an oral preparatory meeting. However, when I do not support the Labour Party's proposal, it is because of the arguments listed in the majority vote, which I allow myself to refer to here: 1st@item: inlistbox The judge will often have a clear understanding of what will be the outcome of the case when the parties have explained themselves. 2nd@item: inlistbox The parties will be saved for new legal meetings with the costs involved. 3rd@item: inlistbox The proposed access will be most relevant in relatively straightforward cases. 4th@item: inlistbox It is reasonable to assume that the parties are well prepared also for oral preparatory meetings, because 5. the present rules, where one of the parties must consent before transition to the main negotiation, require that the parties be prepared for such an opportunity.6. The Ministry assumes that the Judge takes account of a party who, for reasonable reason, opposes direct transfer. It is in the light of these assumptions and considerations that I support the proposal that the Judge should be able to decide that a preparatory hearing should go to the main hearing even if the parties do not agree to this. Another point where the Workers' Party stands alone in the suspension relates to the system of compulsory sale of pledged items. The applicant's rapporteur has set out the reasons for the lot. In the Christian People's Party, we see no serious reason to change the mortgage law now so that there should no longer be access to mortgage lending. It is mainly Christiania Bank and Credit Bank that conduct mortgage lending activities. There are three branches in Oslo with a combined turnover of approximately 20 million. kr per year. Of the total of the pledged items, approximately 5 pst. sold through mortgage transactions. We believe that the turnover of this type of lending activity is of such a size that it has a certain importance in the lending market, and consequently we do not want to abolish the scheme. The Christian People's Party also does not seem to make sense to use time at this point in time for a complete review of the collateral lending scheme or to review the provisions in force today. The Government and the Council of State are committed to proposing amendments to facilitate judicial proceedings. This could be more effective and faster handling of some cases. It is supported by the Council of State and the Government of the Judicial Committee. Today, Odelstinget also confirms the line of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e236	In connection with Ot, the Judicial Committee shall: pp. No 3 for 1999-2000 dealt with a wide range of legislative proposals in the field of civil procedure, presented in an excellent manner by the rapporteur-general. Although each of the amendments itself is not comprehensive, I consider this to be an important part of the process of streamlining and simplifying justice, while at the same time ensuring legal certainty for citizens. I am pleased that the majority of the Judicial Committee supports the proposals in the Proposition, including the harmonisation of the deadlines for appeals and love, the proposals for improving the effectiveness of the Penalty and a number of amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice, the Law of Lawyers and the Supreme Court. The proposal on the harmonisation of the time limit for appeals and appeals and other legal remedies up to one month will help lawyers and other users of the legal instrument to deal with the time limits in different types of cases and thereby improve the availability of justice. In a broader perspective, the proposal can also be linked to the Government’s common objective of a simpler Norway. The Ministry of Justice also attaches great importance to the need to base the new deadline on the future revision of legal remedies deadlines in other laws. The Law on Disputes provides for a somewhat old-fashioned and cumbersome process in some areas, and many of the legislative proposals currently under consideration have a clear aim of making the process simpler both at the level of men's and men's rights. In this context, I can mention in particular the rules on the direct transmission of process writing, extended access to review of costs decisions, the convocation of witnesses in civil matters, the extension of access to the main proceedings in oral proceedings, the procedure for the promotion of appeals under appeal and the geographical scope of the witness obligation. The procedural changes relating to the Supreme Court are also of great importance. The work on these proposals was initiated following enquiries from the Supreme Court itself. I feel that we are now getting a regulation that makes the Supreme Court better able to fulfil the function that the Supreme Court should perform as the Supreme Court in the country. The proposals will give the Supreme Court the form of work and flexibility necessary to improve the efficiency of the proceedings, while taking into account good facts and the interests of the parties. The proposals for improving the effectiveness of the fine are also central. In order to achieve positive general and individual preventive effects, effective recovery of fines is important. If fines are not recovered in a sufficiently effective manner, the penalty could easily be illusory. As fines are the most relevant criminal response in many areas, there is a situation that needs to be avoided. I would also like to stress that although the Dispute Goals Committee is now working on a complete revision of the Dispute Case Law, a number of amendments to this bill could provide valuable experience for the Dispute Goals Committee to use in its further work. I would also like to point out that changes and adjustments to the process rules are still needed. I refer in this connection to Ot. pp. No 27 for 1999-2000, which is also now being treated in Odelstinget. I therefore expect that this work in the future will be followed up with proposals for other legislative changes, and hope that these can be accepted in Odelstinget. I would like to make a few simple comments on the question of Section 305 of the Law on Disputes. A change has been proposed here that will allow the court unilaterally to decide that a case-preparation meeting can proceed to the main negotiation. The reason for the change is that the courts should have an effective means of shortening the length of proceedings in some cases. Like the majority of the committee, I believe that the system will be of primary importance in uncomplicated cases where the judge would like to have a clear opinion on what might be the outcome of the case. Although it has been left to the judge to decide whether or not the case should be brought to the main proceedings, the views and reasons of the parties for refusing, where appropriate, the transition to the main proceedings will be of importance. In addition to the fact that it must be inconvenient to proceed to the main proceedings in a preliminary legal meeting, the right to convene the meeting must have made the parties aware of this possibility. I assume that the court will not take such a reservation in the summons unless the judge clearly sees the need for a simplification of the procedure in the specific case. I do not think there is any reason to believe that the system will slip out so that a process agent has to put down a lot of extra work before a case-by-case meeting. In any case, such preparation will rarely be wasted because, if the main negotiation is not carried out in connection with the preparatory meeting, preparation will benefit from the implementation of the main negotiation. In the case of mortgage and mortgage transactions, the representative Marthinen has explained the volume of this, that it is approx. Twenty million. this is the case and that it is approx. 5 pst. which is traded in the event of forced sale. I'm an activist, but I don't want to accept the invitation to be an activist and review this. I have been given so many tasks, partly by my own activity and partly by the friendly activities of the Stortinget and the Judicial Committee, to hang my fingers in that I will concentrate on ensuring that these are delivered at the right time and with the right quality to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e257	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 277]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e271	The case concerns a proposal for a law on changes to the Law on Origenings, the Expropriation Act, where the Ministry is in favour of granting permission to expropriate to or for wind turbines. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre, support the Government's proposal, and agree that a basis for expropriation under the Expropriation Act will facilitate better use of wind power in society than if one were only to have a more limited possibility of expropriation under the Planning and Building Act. The majority note that a legislative change can have the effect of allowing an expropriation to take place sooner and more often than under the Planning and Building Act. As regards the question of compensation for expropriation, the Ministry points out that the Norwegian Forest Association, the Norwegian Bondelag and the Norwegian Law Association have addressed the question of measuring the compensation in their hearing opinions. They include: to the effect that the legal rules should be designed in such a way that the landowners receive ‘the values of the property as the basis of production for those activities’. It was also suggested that, for this reason, rules should be laid down on the addition of compensation. The Ministry of Justice has not proposed legislative changes in this direction, and a majority of the Committee, the members of the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, support the views of the Department and do not support specific rules on damages in the event of misconduct, expropriation, to wind power. The centre party has demonstrated in the submission that several hearing bodies emphasise that landowners and local communities receive a fair share of the value creation of wind power. The Norwegian Lawyers' Association believes that extending the remuneration rules would be natural in a similar way to that of hydropower plants, so that the landowners are also given a reasonable share of the value of the property. In the Centre Party, we believe that if expropriation homes are to be introduced in order to achieve the most efficient and rapid deployment of wind power, it is important that those who are to dispose of land for such purposes are given part in the creation of value in the same way as in the production of hydropower. We are aware that in the case of replacement measurement by basic renunciation of hydropower, the landowner is awarded a further replacement of 25 pst., which is added to the amount of compensation to which the judgement comes, cf. § 16 nr. 3rd@item: inlistbox Furthermore, in any case, the owner of the land receives at least 1 DKK per person. the added force of the natural horse, irrespective of the way in which the compensation is determined. The centre party is of the opinion that special rules for the measurement of compensation in the event of the acquisition of wind power are relevant. As long as both hydropower and wind power are intended to produce energy, it is important that the landowners who have to give up land for such purposes are equal in terms of compensation measurement. Increased substitution will also give rise to positive attitudes towards such expansion, despite the environmental disadvantages that will arise – noise, annoying appearance, etc. The central party asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a change in law that gives the compensation rules in Section 16 paragraph of the Watercourse Regulation Act. 3 and 4 are also applicable in case of expropriation to installations of wind turbines. We have over time had some decisions in this room that many see as an attack on private ownership. The fact that the traditional socialist parties Labour Party and SV do not have the tradition of giving the landowners a deserved remuneration for expropriation of property or parts of property for important social purposes is a well-known matter. The new thing is that in some concrete matters the Christian People's Party has provided a majority for the views of these parties. Society sees fit to introduce expropriation access for the development of wind turbines, and then compensation must be provided to private landowners. Although electricity produced with windmills becomes commercially interesting, the owner does not get any part of this value creation. The ‘blasted’ areas that are most interesting for expansion are currently yielding very low yields such as agriculture and forestry. But yet they have value! Doesn't everyone feel that owning their own land is valuable? It cannot be true that commercial power producers acquire private property for commercial use without having to pay for it. This is because the concept of value for use in the law of expropriation continues to serve as a basis for compensation. There are hardly a lot of people who think it's okay to give up significant areas on the coast without any special consideration, just because it doesn't grow grass and forest there. For the owners, we hope that it will not blow much, because then the wind power producers can take over the areas in accordance with even more favourable compensation rules than those applicable to the hydropower builders. Finally, it is disappointing that the Christian People's Party puts private property so low in its valuations. I would like to record the proposal of the Central Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e310	The representative Nymo has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e313	The background to the amendment of the law is to give the right of organisation for wind power purposes. Today's law does not explicitly provide permission in the laws of origin for this purpose. Today this can be done by planning and building laws, which are far more resource- and time-consuming. With today's law change, the event can happen faster and thus ensure an increase in growth and a rational wind power expansion where the conditions are right for it. The proposal has met no resistance through the hearing round, with the exception of the Norwegian Forest Society, which clearly opposes a legislative change. However, both the Norwegian Forest Association, the Norwegian Confederation of Lawyers and the Norwegian Association of Lawyers have pointed out that landowners should be replaced by the values represented by the property, and they have also argued that there is a provision for a supplement to the compensation in line with the specification of water power expansion. In the proposal for the Storting, the Government of Bondevik does not assume that additional additions to the value of the area are given in addition to the value of the property. The working party is combined in this assessment, and would point out that there is a significant difference in the nature interference when compared to a hydroelectric power plant. The latter is much more land-consuming, and the resource used, that is, the water where the fallright is the resource, is extracted from the area. This will result in a reduction in water flow and thus impact not least on the fauna in the area and e.g. the grazing conditions. Similarly, when it comes to wind turbines, there is room for wind turbines that need space, and the wind is the resource to generate energy. It will not make the area poorer and one can probably use the areas both as mowing land and pasture for the future as well. The Labour Party requests that voluntary negotiations on the transfer of ownership be held before going to the decision-making process, and believes that one should be free to choose the form of representation such as: one-off or annual rental. The latter will generate income for regular use and such secure fixed revenue for the landowners. It's not so striking that the representatives of the Central Party here in Stortinget find themselves willing to break with their people in the government to provide extra compensation for the landowners. But what's striking is that not even the flags of the party will be decisive in terms of the fundamental ownership interests. Social interests do not conflict with the private fundamental ownership interests of this party. The center part has hoisted the construction of wind power up like a fanbag and a battle cause to get more energy and so could go against other forms of energy like water and gas. We all know that wind power must be competitive, it must be reduced to the production price, and all additional costs will reduce that possibility. Not even loyalty to your government will be decisive for the center party here. The Right Party and the Progress Party uphold their principle also in the event of such societal events; they do not want any changes that endanger private ownership and can thus determine the price of the area covered. All events shall preferably take place on a voluntary basis and market forces shall determine the compensation and they shall be contrary to the proposed amendment of the laws of origin. With such an attitude, many social interests will have to give up and give the result that little would happen around our country, whether it now relates to the area of wind power development, or whether it had other important social interests. I am therefore pleased that the Christian People's Party in the Committee found it possible to give its support to the Government's proposal, so that we get a change of law that provides the basis for the impossibility of – this time – the development of wind power plants, which is an important matter of society, thus supporting the principle of solidarity that no one should have paid more than the value established for ownership – and that is what the Workers' Party fully supports.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e330	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e333	The representative of Nistad concluded by expressing the solidarity of his party in relation to important societal tasks. Now it is the case that those who have been involved in the development of the Workers' Party in recent years have also seen that some of the Workers' Party's own members have expressed that solidarity today appears to be a honorary word with little reality. This is also what I see as the representative Nistad when she now visits the Centre Party because we are naturally in favour of a proper settlement for those who have to give up grounds for producing energy – and not least the production of clean energy. And then the representative Nistad performs to state that the Central Party does not want to take care of the interests of society there, but that the fundamental rights of ownership are more important. It's with respect to not reporting correctly. We see no conflict between giving the landowners a proper settlement, as we have done knowingly when we expropriated hydropower and gave the landowners a pledge of 25 pst. in order for them to have their fair share of the value creation that that energy production means, and to apply the same principle in the case of wind power. In fact, I think the Labour Party and Nistad have an explanation problem when she does not see the context here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e338	I don't think it's the Labour Party that has the biggest explanation problem when it comes to this form of compensation in relation to the principle that the representative Nymo now tried to draw up. There are two different resources when it comes to energy, and that's what I tried to say in my post: there's water, and there's wind. And if we were to look at the claim for compensation in connection with wind power, it might not be the landowner who would get compensation in relation to the disadvantages that come, but perhaps the neighbors around, for the disadvantages here would be that the wind that goes in one direction and meets a windmill will get some sort of turbulence and perhaps get quite different directions in comparison to the fact that the wind is not met by a windmill. The second is noise, which will also be a disadvantage to its neighbours. So if we were to go into a liability and look at who should have been the most paid in relation to this, we might also have to look at what the neighbors are getting. When it relates to the area where the windmills had to stand, I believe it can be fully exploited more or less to what I said, both for mowing and grazing. Therefore, the basis for substitution is not to be compared with the use of water, which is taken out of the fallout field and the fallrights, in relation to the power generation it represents. I don't think I'm right, but that there should be a substitute for that, I don't think it's reasonable in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e349	In his reply, the representative Nistad expressed a point of view that I think it is worth noting, not least for her political family, saying that she was in doubt if it was the founder who should have compensation; perhaps it was the neighbors rather. That, I think, was quite revealing to me the view of the representative Nistad. If it's representative of the rest of the party, I think there's a lot of people who want to notice it. She says that when you give up the ground for wind power, windmills and the production of energy, which we are now talking about, these units are located where there is mowing land and pasture, as she said. In fact, I think most people with reasonably good knowledge of the geography in this country know that these windmills will be located on inflated mountains and nuts along our coast, where it actually doesn't grow neither grass nor trees. So that's the way, if you base what the majority of people here are now in favour of, it's not really going to give landowners who contribute to the production of energy, any substitute. Unfortunately, that is the reality of what the majority is in favour of here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e356	The last one was a good explanation that one must be compensated for the value that the area represents today, and that it is done in relation to the plurality I have no problem with. But I might like to reiterate that the biggest explanation problem is perhaps the Senter party itself in relation to the Government, because it is those who break out in relation to the proposal that lies here, and the assessments that have been made in relation to compensation for landowners.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e361	No more words have been asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e365	The description of the socialist parties in this matter by the Central Party is very striking. I join the representative of Nymos in blazing about these parties. Expropriation is a very serious interference with private ownership. Therefore, the Progress Party will initially be sceptical about any extension of the right to seize private property. We believe that there should be a decisive emphasis on the fact that there are already opportunities for expropriation under Section 35 of the Planning and Building Act. 1st@item: inlistbox This requires a planning process in which municipal areas are seen in the context. It is noted for our part that the majority actually considers this inappropriate. We can't see that windmills themselves have a social significance that justifies particularly modest expropriation rules. In view of the visual nature, wind turbines also represent a significant environmental problem. Among other things, I can reference to Denmark. I wonder if an expropriation permit would be adopted without including any proposal for an extended replacement. This could mean that those who are quick to use expropriation would be better placed than those who are trying to negotiate, because the time factor could lead to those who are negotiators being able to comply with the replacement rules, hopefully adopted at a later date. The Progress Party considers that an important element that is contrary to this simplified freedom of expropriation is that the force that may be produced will not affect the power market in Norway to an extent or price. The price of power will in no way be competitive without direct subsidisation. The alternative could be a significant increase in charges on other electricity. Hopefully that's not the case. Simplification of access to expropriation that automatically qualifies for greater subsidies is apparent to us as both strange and unnatural. It is therefore the taxpayers who have to pay for the forced operation of wind turbines that may not be desirable from the point of view of local conditions and social interests. That is why the Progress Party will not support the proposal that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e380	It says that attack is the best defense, and that's probably why the representative Nymo uses his military knowledge to attack the Christian People's Party, when it's a matter of knowing that the Central Party is leaving our common government proposal. But I would like to explain the Christian People's Party's reasons. It may appear to be discriminatory when landowners who have properties flowing through river are paid extra when this water is used for the production of electric energy, while those who own property it often blows wind over are not paid extra when society will set up windmills and exploit the wind power of electric energy. Yes, there may also be a discrimination, not least if the rights and compensations in the event of water falls are used as a template. But there are many other situations in which landowners have to dispose of property for the public needs, such as: to roads, airports, etc. In this context, no special rules are used, and we in the Christian People's Party think it would be unfortunate if we introduced a special rule for property for wind energy purposes, not least when the representative Nymo now also describes the current property as inflated mountain knaves – that it should qualify for extra compensation, sounds strange. An addition to full compensation in case of expropriation would violate the fundamental principle of the applicable law that compensation should provide cover for losses and not a share in the expropriant's potential gain or risk. In this case, it is not so strange that the Christian People's Party supports the Government's proposal that expropriation be allowed under the expropriation replacement law in order to improve the conditions for a more socially sound exploitation of wind power. But we also want to stress that there must be a rule that a voluntary transfer of the area for the purpose in question is first negotiated. We would also like to point out that different forms of land settlement can be agreed upon for landowners. A natural option will be annual rentals with the right to adjustments. This will give the owner an annual income for the area that agrees to build a wind farm, and at my discretion it will be a fair and good arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e391	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e394	The representative, Marthinsen, spent a lot of his time defending his party's position and criticising the Central Party for the position they have come to. He also referred to my background in the defense. I would like to reiterate that the same representative Marthinsen also has a background from the Defense, as a field priest even – if it is allowed to bring it. And I might have expected that from that point of view he would have contributed his view of closeness and fair treatment even when it came to securing the landowners their legitimate part of the value creation that happens by giving reason for such an important purpose. He stated that he did not want any discrimination against those who had to give way to roads, etc. In fact, there was a Christian People's Party earlier – possibly before Marthinsen's time at Stortinget – an opportunity to include those who gave reason for that purpose, and also provide them with fair compensation. But that opportunity obscured the Christian People's Party at the time they did it on several occasions, and I find that they are doing it here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e401	It would be far from me, not least with the background of the representative Nymo's reference to my military career in the Field Priest Corps, to criticise the position of the Center Party as something – as I perceived it – inferior; far from it. I just note that the Central Party does not follow the Government's proposal, and I reasoned with the representative Nymo and with the representatives who were at the time in this Chamber, why the Christian People's Party did not follow the Central Party, but followed the Government. Then, too, since the representative of Nymo in terms of the function of the fieldmaster, obviously there is a misunderstanding, I would like to stress that in the fieldmaster's office it is about equality for everyone, and not about any priority depending on whether you own anything or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e408	The cord shift is therefore over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e411	It's always exciting to support how the government's officials practice their block-dependence against their own government in the staging room. I'm not going to interfere with the theological or military discussion between Finn Kristian Marthinsen and Tor Nymo, but it might have to be allowed to say that Finn Kristian Marthinsen's hover curve has shown variable quality during the morning. Initially, I must be allowed to state that once again the Centre Party is without influence in the government of which they are a member, on an important question – this time the landowner’s rights in the country. Tor Nymo expressed disappointment at the lack of value anchoring in the Christian People's Party. I don't understand that that's the basis. The Christian People's Party has repeatedly shown that they have no value anchor on these very fundamental questions. So if I'm going to express disappointment, I'm going to say that to me it applies much more to the Left, which I've perceived as a principled and solid ownership party and landowners' party. Now the Left does not have a member of the Justice Committee, but I assume they support the Government. I guess it's only in the Central Party, I think the Party Councils have one view and the Party representatives in the Main Room have another view. Expropriation is a very serious interference with ownership. Therefore, the Right is skeptical of any extension of the freedom of expropriation. The threat this time may not be that there will be very many polluting wind turbines and wind turbines in this country. During the spring, we are likely to get gas power plants in place, so that we have access to good energy and don't spill to the coast with noisy and rather in aesthetic windmills. What else is serious about this matter is that it merges into a long, long line of private property interference. In conflict areas by conflict area, the so-called social interests are to take precedence over the fundamental ownership interests. Strengthening is a field on which we have had a debate. In the predatory debate, the very conflict between predators and domestic animals has been most focused. For me, an equally important part of that debate is the very serious intervention in the oldest of all rights to landowners, namely the right to graze, which is deprived of the landowners without any compensation whatsoever. We have also seen it before, in connection with the forest report, the Right really had to get help from the Workers' Party in order to prevent an entirely premature interference in ownership in an attempt to force the forest industry into forced links. And there is no landowner around the country that can't support this when it comes to the construction of cabins, campsites, forest roads – no matter what it is, the real legal status of the landowners is constantly weakened in this country. I'm not surprised, but I'm sorry that the government is involved in making proposals in this direction. Ownership rights are also weakened in relation to all possible forest, moor and mountain protection plans and nature conservation areas. I can also say that in terms of people's livelihoods in District Norway, there are also strong restrictions on hunting, fishing and outdoor activities. As far as hunting rights are concerned, I would like to add that after the predators have penetrated the grazing areas, the landowners do not even have the opportunity to take the value that could be in hunting for those predators who have displaced their livelihood. It shall be reserved for the interests of society. And then finally, we've got an agricultural message that – I think I want to use the words – in a grotesque way weakens inheritance and ownership. The right to vote shall be impaired, the right to succession shall be impaired, and the rights to compensation shall, in fact, be impaired by the proposals contained in the agricultural notification. It should be of concern to this government that the state and the public in the field by region unilaterally defend the interests of society and the so-called public interest at the expense of those who will live and live in that country. There is not a single example in history of the survival of legal certainty, justice and wealth without a fundamental private property right and private management of the essential aspects of value creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e432	The President has doubts as to whether the characterisation of other representatives' hover curve is a good parliamentary tone. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e437	The reason I asked for the word for a line was the representative Hernæs" statement that the Christian People's Party had no value anchoring. He referred to the fact that we are not in favour of full compensation and that we will not agree to extra compensation for those who own greystone, so we are without value anchoring. Of course, some people are anchoring their lives in what they own, and that's it. Comfort and bear the one who dares to attack it! It'll be like an attack on the soul itself. For the Christian People's Party, value anchoring is on a completely different level. In the everyday life that we're talking about here, we're following a principle of equality, and that the person who's going to get compensation is going to get compensation by value. It's not harder.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e444	I will of course take note that I will stay far away from all the hover curves. But I must be allowed to say that my «attack» – that was the word used by the representative – on the value anchoring of the Christian People's Party was actually a reference to the representative Nymo's characteristic of the Christian People's Party. I understand that the conditions are not the best between the government parties in this area. But it doesn't have to be that it's totally premature to tell them what they're saying between them. Then to the replacement. It is incredibly generous and incredibly generous from the start-up team to provide full compensation on the basis of something to which there is no value reference! One of the most serious aspects of this case is that there is no such reference. So then the determination becomes arbitrary and, by all probability and all previous experience, not a favor to the landowner. Equally bad is that there can be great differences in treatment from one – I would like to say – expropriation to the other. Those who are fast and hurry at first thought that something can be used for the public benefit can go to the expropriation case and thus get to provide a very low compensation, while others who think a little bit more about it before going to these interferences in property rights will have to pay a higher compensation. It's wrong anyway. I just want to say in the end that when we vote in favour of the Senter party proposal, it's just because we have to be in and try to make a terrible law a little less bad. It is simply an attempt to repair a fence that this government, of which the Central Party is a member, has torn down for the landowners.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e453	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e457	By providing a basis for expropriating for wind power purposes in the 1959 Origeningsgesetz, the law provides for the exploitation of wind power, which has previously been provided for thermal power plants and hydropower plants. It is natural to give such legal support when the use of wind power is now up to date. Such a legislative change is part of the work to facilitate a less polluting energy production. Even if the law is amended this way, it would be natural for the operator of wind turbines to have to make the necessary arrangements with the landowners concerned. I fully agree with the comments made by the majority of the committee that a person should be able to take on the very foundation of voluntary activity, so that one can come as far as possible, in a way of amicability. I have also noticed and am aware that the settlement can be done in different ways, such as, among other things. the majority has taken into account. An expropriation helmet may be necessary if it is not possible to agree with the landowners on the purchase of land or on the right to maintain wind turbines. Of course, when questions arise about using this home, administration must weigh the different interests against each other. The expropriation shall not take place without one having to assume that the intervention is undoubtedly more beneficial than for injury. These are the main points of view on which the case was brought forward and to which I note that the majority has agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e475	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 289]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e483	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e536	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e544	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e1147	Here the Workers' Party has announced that they are moving towards the second sentence. It goes over the first sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e1157	It goes over the second sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e1167	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e1174	Then there will be 45 votes in favour of the Committee's position and 29 votes against. Further adjustment was made:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e2112	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e2120	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e2126	During the debate, Mr Nymo, on behalf of the Centre Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget with the amendment of the law giving the compensation rules in Section 16 paragraph of the Watercourse Regulation Act. 3 and 4 shall also apply in case of expropriation to wind power plants.» This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e2157	The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e2166	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Right will also vote against this. – It is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-15-lower.ana.ud1557e2178	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
