ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e24	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3552]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e40	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3552]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e56	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3552]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e72	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3552]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e88	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3552]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e104	I just want to make it clear that the Progress Party is the only party that clearly announces that there will be no possibility of dual citizenship in Norway. In Norwegian society, it should be such that, according to certain criteria, an immigrant can only acquire Norwegian citizenship once he has resigned from the original citizenship. We also want to apply this when it comes to reconciliation. The group or persons having dual citizenship shall zone in their country of origin when the offence is committed in Norway or in their country of origin. Where the offence is committed in another State of jurisdiction, there is a relationship between the country concerned and the country of origin of the offender, see home country. It should be taken into account in all agreements concluded by Norway on the transfer of jurisdictions, where no convention prevents such practice. Such a mechanism should also be emphasised when discussing and dealing with the Conventions in European Fora to which Norway is linked. As a consequence, this should be included in the National Law and in further investigations into the issues of dual citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e111	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3552]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e127	This is a proposal that we in the Workers' Party cannot see any reason to go in for. It's simply because asking for a professional evaluation of the practical effects is a breath into the air, because here we know what the practical effects will be. It is not about getting a professional evaluation, but about getting up to take a political position. This is a political assessment and not a professional assessment. So the political assessment has now been made. Together with the Christian People's Party, we have reached a compromise on how to reasonably balance the relationship between parties and parties. It's a compromise we stand for, and we go for, and we hope it has a longer date stamp than two years. We therefore do not want to add up to a rematch in two years. If someone wants to take this matter up again, you have every opportunity to do so as a representative in Stortinget. The parties, both parties and fasteners, have been waiting in uncertainty for a long time, since 1996, when we made the last decision. We don't want to keep the uncertainty going for another two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e134	There may be a certain interest in whether the Progress Party will support the proposal of the Christian People's Party for an evaluation of the law on Santa Claus after two years from its entry into force. In particular, Section 15 relates to the practical effect of the changes determined in the Odelstinget. The new changes will have consequences, especially for the landowners. In short, this means that the fixation fee can be regulated after the change in the monetary value, or as agreed, but that, for fastening contracts concluded before 26 May 1983, no up-regulation of more than 9 000 kroner per year can be required. cover area where the plot is greater than 1 dimension. The new law is very dirtyly justified. These include: do not describe the specific conditions of the fastening and why these agreements should have different rules and conditions than others. It will probably be best for most parties to agree to the present proposal, which is based on an evaluation after two years. In the view of the Progress Party, the 1996 law on Santa Claus and its intention will be enforced in practice after an evaluation has been carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e143	I didn't really intend to take the floor in this matter, but I feel somewhat forced to do so after hearing the article to Ane Sofie Tömrås. Because it seemed that the Workers' Party experienced this as a rematch, a call for us not to stand by the decision that we said we would stand by when this matter was dealt with a short time ago, and that has now come to Stortinget from Odelstinget. It is quite clear that the Christian People's Party stands by what we said at the time, and the content of it does not change at all. We're not afraid to get an evaluation. And if it can help meet someone's need to see what kind of effects this law has, we're not afraid to see the facts in our eyes either. We believe that an evaluation can be positive, and that it can provide us with information that is important precisely in view of what was the intention when we passed the law. But there's no reason to express suspicion in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e150	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3553]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e166	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3553]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e182	In the debate around the new pro-mille limit last week, the vast majority of drivers were most concerned about alcohol. The result was a new per mill limit of 0.2, despite strong protests from different teams. It turns out that more and more drivers are being attacked to drive in a drug-affected condition, and the problem around this appears to be far greater than drivers affected by the known driving pill. What needs to be more focused are the fatal accidents associated with drug or polydrug use. In 1998, 2950 drivers were considered to be drug-affected drivers. It is high time to take action to address those who use drugs and drive a car. In 1996, the Storting would step up action against drug-affected drivers. But what has been done? Today, there appears to be no overall record of the number and deaths of drug users. In many cases where there has been a suspicion of pro-mille driving, there may also have been driving in drug use. Driving in such a mixture is characterised as one of the most dangerous. It must be possible to establish that driving with the propeller is as dangerous, if not more dangerous, as driving with the propeller. It is not unlikely that in a short time driving in a drug-affected state will become much more common than driving per million. Therefore, it is important that the Government see this and make proposals to the Storting on measures to drive around with drugs in the body that impair the overall ability to drive.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e193	We make laws, and we go into the soul of ordinary people and their way of life in this house. When it comes to the follow-up of those who are in drug rushes, I think it's a big black hole. It should only be lacking that no action is taken to safeguard the interests of ordinary people who can be driven down by people in drug abuse. It's a theme. I assume that the government will come back with measures and not least have the level of fatal accidents recorded in drug use. But there's another theme I want to bring on the track. A short time ago, the Trondheim police discovered a new drug on the market. The police couldn't seize it, because they didn't have legal support for it. It's a development that's going on in this country, which is scary. How is it that the police don't have the authority to confiscate drugs that are used when they do racism in the houses? There are questions I think have a right to an answer in this room, and especially in connection with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e202	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3553]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e216	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of up to 5 lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e227	The current setting and St.prp. No 47 has originated from a unanimous comitology opinion made by the Social Committee at the beginning of the budget. S. No 11 for 1999-2000, which reads as follows: ‘The Committee considers that the great difference exists in the view of the hospital owners and the State of the financial basis for the operation of hospitals in 2000 which requires the Government to return quickly to the Storting with an assessment of the situation and proposals for measures to strengthen its operation.’ The Bondevik government followed up the quoted comment of the Social Committee, and the Health Minister, Højbräten, set up a wide-ranging investigation committee, which was tasked with helping to provide a basis for the preparation of a pooling of the hospital economy in general and the ISF scheme in particular. The reference group was broadly composed, including three departments and three different research institutions, such as the Norwegian School of Business, the University of Oslo and Sintef-NIS. In particular, the Committee has found it reassuring that key hospital research environments have been a central element of the existing investigation work. Furthermore, the Committee considers that these professional research environments should also play a central role in the future follow-up of the hospital economy in general and of the ISF legislation in particular. The reference group, which gave its assent on 16 March of this year and which was broadly unanimous in its conclusions, struck among others. fixed as follows: the share of expenditure by counties for health purposes has increased by 2,7 pst. from 1995 to 1999, while the free income of counties has continued to be reduced until 2000. In spite of this, service production in public hospitals has been maintained and increasing. This is underlined by the research communities involved in the investigation. It shall be indicated from these: ‘The actual growth in treatment activity for 98 and 99 appears to have been greater than the growth planned by the State and the counties.’ In addition, the following entries are added: ‘In other words, the budgets of the county councils and agreements with the hospitals appear to have little influence on the use and level of activity of hospitals.’ The conclusion of this must be that the county councils have had and still have major problems with the management of the hospital economy. As far as the reference group is concerned, it has clearly concluded in its investigation that the uncompensated cost of service production by counties at 1999 level is estimated at 1430 million. kr. It is further concluded that in order to increase service output by 2 pst. in 2000, as foreseen by the Storting, an additional 694 million will be needed. kr. In total, this amounts to NOK 2.1 billion in the hospital economy. The reference group also discusses in its investigation the issue of cryptography and whether this should be maintained. The guest patient settlement scheme is also discussed. As far as I can recall, the investigation work available from this group is the first in its kind of analysis of the hospital economy in general and the ISF system in particular. In spite of this, the Department of St.prp. No 47 to propose an additional allocation of a total of 1250 million. SEK, of which 510 million. This appropriation is intended to cover additional appropriations to cover higher activity in 1999, while only EUR 740 million. kr is proposed to improve the general economy of hospitals in the current year, so that the proposed growth of 2 pst. can be reached, despite the agreement in the reference group on a deficit of DKK 2.1 billion With this proposed allocation, there will be a gap of 850 million. kr in which the Government of the Proposition to Bed-Bet-Knowledge leaves to the county councils to settle. It shall be indicated, inter alia: the following from the Government in this context: ‘A State invasion of the identified gap could undermine the principle of accountability and governance that has been applied to the health sector.’ And on the other hand, «Should one avoid progressive financial imbalances in the counties, it requires both conversion and efficiency improvement as well as management of the activity development of hospitals.» As rapporteur of the case, I also consider it appropriate to take a second short quotation from the proposition, where the Ministry states the following: ‘The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health assumes that the economic situation of hospitals is significantly improved by this additional allocation and that a total growth rate of 2 pst in 2000 has been established. in the treatment activity of hospitals.» This statement I will reject on the strongest. The opinion is free, and it is incorrect. The same is true of the members of the Social Committee of the Labour Party, who also propose an additional 520 million. kr to maintain the operation of hospitals in 2000. Although it is gratifying that the Government Party is also increasing the allocation and taking responsibility, it is alarming that the Minister of Health in this case is failing in relation to his own group. Although it is positive to record that the majority, all with the exception of the Advance Party, are in favour of an additional 520 million. kr to hospitalisation for the current year, is gaped in relation to the need still very large. In particular, the undercover will hit our regional hospitals quite strongly. The Progress Party has its own proposal for a total of 690 million. SEK, of which 520 million. SEK is going to increase the unit price, SEK 70 million. kr to remove the crypt and 100 mill. SEK to the four counties of regional hospitals. However, this appropriation is not now adopted, and the Progress Party will, of course, vote in a subsidiary way for a total of 520 million in favour of the majority voting. SEK, of which 300 million. kr is added to the unit prices of the ISF scheme. As the Progress Party sees it, the impact of the majority is 520 million. kr more than suspicious. Although the different batches have a different impact, everyone has cut off medical-technical equipment, which together gets a cut of NOK 760 million. Even $38 million. kr to investment in psychiatry in these days will cut the majority. Only the Progress Party and the representative Bastesen propose a real additional allocation of fresh money in a range that will allow normal hospital operations during the rest of the current operating term. When it is claimed in the revised national budget that one can cut medical and technical equipment to hospitals because these amounts do not reach payment in the current year, it has its particular reason, namely that the county with its poor economy has not had the opportunity to cover the proportion despite the fact that it is highly desirable professionally to replace significant parts of the medical and technical equipment, which for many hospitals are over 30 years old. Operating with such old equipment is, in my opinion, professionally irresponsible and not least a major safety risk for patients. What the finance committee should have done was go in with 100 pst. coverage for the purchase of equipment for the year 2000 when the economic situation in the counties is as it is. I have registered that our new Prime Minister has stated that during a two-year period this government will clean up the hospital problem. Can a certain trust in such an opinion when one sees how this government so far in practice does not increase the resources of hospitals, but rather cross-cut them? It's actually like seeing a cut in the revised national budget together with St.prp. No 47, one sees that the majority here actually cuts more to the hospitals than it was to the St.prp. No 47 and in the revised national budget, submitted by the Government. The government and the majority parties in this case operate here a double accounting which I think borders on the ‘unfair’. Finally, I would like to mention the proposals made by the Party of Presidents, together with other parties, and the party's own proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e292	John I. Alvheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e295	The Labour Party and the Government assume that the economic situation in the hospitals is serious. The Labour Party also laid a foundation when, in the autumn of 1999, we discussed the budget for 2000, where we raised serious doubts as to whether the government's budget was in line with the costs that hospitals would receive for patient treatment for 2000. No one, neither the hospital owners nor the patients, deserves to be called into crisis to attract political attention or gain new sympathizers. But everyone has earned the swift correction of actual, crisis-like conditions in parts of the health system. Now a financial crisis in hospitals has evolved over time. It has not evolved since 17 March, when the government of Stoltenberg took over – nor under either the central government or the government of Jagland. It is also not one-sided to allow ourselves out of it. It takes time to work out the shortcomings we see today. I therefore think it is excellent by Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg when he says that this should be resolved, and that over the next two years one has to establish a robust system. I therefore believe that we need to carefully assess where the cost-driven factors lie in the hospital economy. We must carefully consider expensive vigilance for very few patients. We need to take new steps in terms of organisation, governance and management. Nevertheless, much can be done with money, and therefore the Government has promoted a case on supplementary appropriations in addition to the budget adopted for 2000. The background to this was the initiative taken by the Workers' Party to have a full review of the hospitals' economy, but also with demands for improvements to our funding system, so that it becomes more predictable. In addition, there was a need to address the lack of contact between hospital owners and the state, so that both parties were aware of the effect of e.g. system changes and the level of unit prices for patient treatment. This review confirmed far along the way the objections that we raised. It also showed that the growth of activity and cost developments were higher than foreseen and had only increased. Today, the county council and therefore our hospitals get a massive increase in the patient treatment appropriations, where the Workers' Party and the Centres are united to grant 1770 million. NOK extra for 2000. This money divides by 510 million. kr as a result of a higher activity in 1999 than envisaged and its continuation in 2000. 1,260 million. The aim is to strengthen the economy of hospitals in order to meet the demand for further growth in patient care in 2000 and to cover increased costs. We know that costs have increased, among others. through increased pay growth, cost-intensive equipment, implants and medications and also increased patient weights, including: As a result of increasing numbers of elderly and sicker patients. In the Government’s proposal, it was open to capture the costs of modern cancer treatment through an improvement in the DRG system. This has been reinforced through comitology and will probably raise costs, but at the same time our cancer patients will be guaranteed the best treatment. Granting to strengthen hospitals’ finances does not only solve the county’s financial problem. The main problem is that county councils have problems with the basic financing of the growth of patient treatment by reducing the free income after 1997, while increasing the activity of hospitals, which has also occurred, has been an objective beyond what has been budgeted for. Finally, something that is actually outside of this matter, but that others have in some wrong way withdrawn. The investment plan for hospital equipment with approx. DKK 2.9 billion distributed over five years is fixed. The county councils have already been paid the amount to be paid for 2000 – 380 million. kr. The fact that it's now being transferred to 760 million. of equipment provided for other purposes, of course does not affect the amounts charged to hospitals in the future. The Labour Party assumes that the 2001 budget allocates the State’s 60 pst share. the purchase of equipment by county councils, fully in accordance with the hospital equipment investment plan. The difference between the motion for a resolution and the majority of the motion for a resolution is 170 million. kr. Then one goes from the number 1770 million. kr. It is with amazement that I hear John I. Alvheim saying himself, both here in the hall and outside, in the light of such a slight difference in the allocation proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e316	Hospital economy is a complex area, not least because hospital funding takes place through a variety of channels and systems. This has made it more difficult for us politicians to have a full overview of the conditions that relate to the hospital economy. It has not been easier for the various actors to present different views on describing the actual economic situation of hospitals and what should be done to correct them. The wide-ranging sample that then Minister of Health Dagfinn Højbråten reduced has now given us a report that gives us a completely different way of assessing the actual situation of the hospitals' economy, and thus the measures that need to be taken to improve it. The reference group, consisting of representatives from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Municipal Councils of the Central Governments, County Councils and Hospitals, has provided a broad review of key issues relating to the financial framework conditions of the county councils for hospital operations, and has also presented proposals for action. Central research environments have also been involved. As politicians, we thus – I believe – have for the first time an approximate consensus description of the facts. This is clearly a desirable, indeed a necessary starting point for political treatment, and in the long term I therefore believe that the most important thing we are doing today is to adopt the unanimous committee proposal for a liaison body for the ongoing follow-up of the hospital economy. However, it has not been said that our appropriations for hospitals today are irrelevant – on the contrary. We have therefore received a consensus description from this reference group, which concludes under certain conditions with a distance between the costs of increased patient treatment from 1997 to 2000 and the income base of county councils to cover these costs of approximately DKK 2.1 billion. The Reference Group has pointed out that the planned level of activity in the 2000 budget was already reached in 1999. The government has wanted to hold on to the target of 2 pst. activity growth for the year 2000, measured by the new higher level. According to the table of the reference group, this requires an additional allocation of approximately EUR 15 million. 700 million. kr. In this context, the Government's proposal in the proposal for an additional allocation of a total of 1250 million will be made. kr clearly insufficient. Only 740 million. SEK of this has been proposed for strengthening the hospital economy, of which 40 million. kr to the Rikshospitalet. As mentioned, this is clearly insufficient, and it is therefore gratifying that a joint committee sees this, and that the Workers' Party is also helping to increase the allocation to hospitals by 520 million. kr in addition to what the Government has proposed. In our opinion, it is also gratifying that there is a majority to direct these funds against patient treatment in that way that 300 million. kr is used to adjust the input-driven funding rates, so that hospitals are better paid for each treated patient. 220 million. kr is used to strengthen the framework of county councils, which is assumed to be used in its entirety for strengthening hospital operations. Of course, the Christian People's Party could – who couldn't – want a further strengthening of the hospital economy. But as I said, we are pleased that it has been possible to reach agreement on an increase of more than half a billion in excess of what the Government has proposed. I am also pleased that the report of the reference group has given us a good starting point to assess not only how much we should strengthen the hospital economy, but also what device such a strengthening should have. As mentioned at the outset, I think this will have a decisive positive impact on the policy handling of issues relating to the hospital economy in the years to come. Finally, just cards to the II decision in the vote: the Christian People's Party is not included in this proposal. It's not because it would have been a bad idea to link the guest patient payment up to the DRG system, but all the time the department is in dialogue with the Municipal Councils' Central Association on proposals for conversion, we think it might as well be waiting for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e331	Today's vote and debate is really a tough verdict on both the former Minister of Health Dagfinn Høybräten and the budgetary agreement that the Bondevik government's parties and the Workers' Party concluded in the autumn of 1999 – i.e. less than half a year ago. I would say it as strongly as the budget agreement that was concluded at the time was not worth the paper it was written on. It was negotiated by people who were at least not very well aware of the needs and wishes of the health sector. Therefore, Stortinget intervened, which several people have been involved in. Already in the budgetary position of the Social Committee, all parties – both those who had government responsibilities at the time, and those who have them today, together with us who have neither then nor now – went in and demanded that the Government make an additional proposition as quickly as possible. In addition, the Right Party and the Progressive Party suggested that we should get a proper evaluation of effort-driven funding as a system, because it was revealed that the changes that were still being made were not just about to weaken the trust in the system, but to discredit this whole funding system. This led to a crisis of confidence between the state and the county councils. It provided unforeseeable and mistrust for input-driven financing as a system. However, we have not really received this evaluation today either, and I therefore hope that the Minister of Health will do as the Right Party and the Progress Party now recommends, namely to present an assessment of the report that the scientific community has produced, so that we can get a better and more comprehensive review of effort-driven funding as a system. What the former Minister of Health did — and which was very good — was that he set up this reference group, which included the research communities. It is very important, as the previous speakers have also pointed out, that there now appears to be an agreement on the understanding of reality. That's at least the first step to move on. It has been established that the free revenues of county councils have been reduced more than reasonably, and the preliminary evaluation we have received from input-driven funding shows, of course – I would say – that this scheme does not have the distortive effects that the opponents and skeptics of this funding system have in the first place thought would have happened, namely that priority would be given to the light and so-called cheap patients rather than the heavier and more complicated ones. It hasn't happened. There is also agreement, as I see it, that the guest patient scheme should now be terminated and become part of the DRG scheme. That's good, too. Hopefully this will lead to a simpler and fairer system than today's. We're also trying to do something about the regional hospitals, and the Radium hospital. In this context, I would like to stress the Radium Hospital, because it is often forgotten that it is also a regional hospital in its area. All these hospitals have been underfunded for many years. So we're starting to fix it right now. Therefore, it is gratifying that we are getting a strengthening of the hospitals' economy, not only through the government's proposition, but also through the additions that come with the co-treatment. But if this shipper – for that is what it really is, there is something very Norwegian about it – is not to become a recurring year-round shipper’s roof, the government has to take seriously that the annual lack of price adjustment to which many parts of the hospital economy are exposed, the under-budgeting of county councils’ free revenues and trickling and mixing with the components of effort-driven financing cannot continue. So this is not going to be a one-time thing, as it should be, then it's going to be something we have to get back to at regular intervals, and it shouldn't be like that if you want predictability, openness and a hospital economy that makes it possible to treat more and more patients. That is what we all want. Then we have to try to be able to prioritize this sector, which is one of the most important things that the public prosecutor has to do with. Unfortunately, the government's proposal to finance even the funds in the proposal, with cuts in equipment appropriations, shows that the new Minister of Health is not as different from his predecessor in this context as we would have liked. For also the Tore barrel gives with one hand and takes with the other. When he's going to give to a hospital, he's taking away from a hospital. And I hope that's the last time we get to experience it. It is therefore very positive that the Government does not receive a majority in order to extend the number of years for which the equipment plan is to be implemented. The implementation of the cancer plan would also have been compromised, because parts of it are also based on replacing old jet engines with new ones, and it goes under the equipment plan. But there's a big question about the majority's addition of cuts to the equipment plan, because, as well as previous speakers were involved, this just indicates that the county councils are unable to contribute with their part of the split layer that this plan really is: 60 pst. from the State and 40 pst. from counties. The only way to understand the government's letter to the finance committee is to cut up to 600-700 million. kr on equipment financing does not have any consequences. And that's also what's in Asmund Kristoffersen's statement, that here the municipalities are going to get what they're supposed to get to next year, and that we don't get any displacement in and extension of the plan's number of years. So that means that the county has problems filling up its parts. I therefore hope that the Minister of Health will assess this mechanism in the 2001 budget, because if this continues, the consequence will either be that the equipment plan is not feasible or that, when it comes to the end of the period, it will have to be extended because it has not been implemented. Therefore, I hope that you can judge freely whether the state should go in with a larger part. Finally, some words about cancer medicine, which represents a numerically small amount, but nevertheless is very important for those affected by this disease. It has been pointed out for many years by Stortinget that it has not been possible to find good arrangements to cover up the increasingly new and hopefully better medicines coming on the market. It's important that that 30-million increase. kr, which is now proposed, does not become a skipper roof, which I hope the rest of the additions will not be. And that means that they're going to have $30 million. kr this year becomes something more than a shipper's roof, so it must be done so that once the criteria for the use of new medicines have been agreed upon, a continuous adjustment of the reimbursement tariff must be made to cover the costs without renegotiation and withdrawal in time. It is only such that Norwegian cancer patients can quickly have access to new and better treatment so that more people can be rescued and cured. The committee leader was aware that there was too much gap between the majority's proposal for allocation, which is right in this position behind it, and the need. That's right. This is not all we should have done, but it's a good piece on the way. But, like Kristoffersen, I must say that I think Alvheim's harsh words also hit him himself, because the Progress Party has not been able to propose a grant that is identical to the one that the reference group has come up with. There are hundreds of millions of dollars missing in all the Stortinget proposals today. Asmund Kristoffersen stated that within two years, the new government would now set up a robust system for the health sector to function. Yeah, we're going to have hope of that, at least it shouldn't be on the right. I think it is bold to put forward something like this without any indication of what these new, robust measures should contain, but we can hope that the Minister of Health will reveal some of this today. If not, it's so far nothing but pious desires. We can all have that, but that is the proposal and the content it depends on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e354	Problems with the hospital economy are not of a new date, and with a past in county policy I can refer to several decades of ongoing debate on this issue. The county councils as hospital owners have often been in a situation between the bark and the woodland in relation to the hospitals that serve on the one hand and the state, which mainly sets the financial framework, on the other. In several cases, the economic situation of the health and hospital services has led to an unworthy blackjack game. Different economic coverage models have been practised and rejected. The introduction of the DRG system and input-driven funding is what has been the system governing the somatic hospital system in recent years, and this, together with the framework transfers to county municipalities, provides essentially the financial basis for the operation of our hospitals in the counties. In the autumn of 1999, there was a recognition both in the Stortinget and in the central government that there were again major differences in the perception of the economic basis for hospital operations between the State and the hospital owners. Both the size and the centre government were prepared to carry out a broad review and assessment of the situation with all stakeholders, and then put forward proposals for measures to strengthen operations. The economic situation of hospitals and counties was otherwise so difficult in the autumn of 1999 that, after closer contact with the central government, it was signalled from this that it was willing to make an additional allocation before the end of the year. As the case rapporteur for that case, I have to say that it was very positive that we reached a broad consensus so that at that time 254 million could be allocated. kr to the hospital sector. The central government was only going for days before it was going to put forward its staging proposition on the hospital economy. The basis for the proposal, however, was the work carried out in the reference group, with the participation of the Municipal Councils, the county councils central, the hospital administration, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Finance and, of course, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Furthermore, there was close contact with the hospital research community during the work. The Labour Party Government then presented St.prp. No 47, which we are discussing today, after its accession now in ours. The reference group concluded, under certain conditions, that there was a gap between the cost of increased patient treatment from 1997 to this year and the county economic income base to cover these costs, amounting to approximately DKK 2.1 billion. The current government is proposing to cover this gap by 1250 million. kr. This means that of the 2,1 billion kroner that the reference group pointed out as total needs, there is still about about. 850 million. kr not covered by the proposal. And then you have to take that 510 million into account. kr of the Government's proposal goes to the State to pay in the ISF share for additional production in 1999 and the continuation of this activity this year. It is also an earmarked grant to the Rikshospitale of 40 million in the Government's proposal. kr, which makes the deficit even greater in relation to the need of SEK 2.1 billion. However, all parties in the social committee agree that some of the containment also needs to be addressed by hospitals and hospital owners, and that this must be done primarily through the benefits that better organisation and efficiency can contribute to. The Central Party considers that the State’s share of the hospital service cost coverage needs to be strengthened in addition to the Government’s proposal, and is pleased that there is at least a majority in favour of adding 520 million. For increased patient care in addition to the Government’s proposal. Of this, 300 million is going to be. kr go to strengthen the cap. 730, heading 60. This shall provide the necessary adjustments, such as: adjustment of the unit price. 220 million. kr shall be used to strengthen the framework of county councils. I would like to emphasise as much as I can, that for the future, the economy of county councils needs to be further strengthened through the framework transfers, and it is very important that the free revenues of counties can also be increased for the health sector. What we see today is that overfocusing on the financial system with the ISF leads to a weakening of other areas that are not covered by this scheme. In particular, there is reason to mention psychiatry, but somatics can also be harmful, as the counties do not have sufficient resources for self-covering e.g.. hospital equipment. With regard to the country’s share in the acquisition of hospital equipment, the Government, in the context of the review of the national budget, has stated that its obligations in relation to the equipment plan have been fully respected this year. In line with the government party's own remark in the vote, I would like to stress that it is a clear prerequisite for making arrangements now, that the government budget for 2001 should be sufficient to ensure the state's 60 pst share. for hospital equipment purchased and that the equipment acquisition plan can be implemented as provided. The central government increased the so-called encryption limit by 2 pst., and we now support the proposal to increase the encryption by another 1 pst. With regard to other important areas relevant to the hospital economy, I would like to mention the payment scheme for guest patients, but the proposal that the Government may come back with, that it should be linked to the DRG scheme, we will look into when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e384	The issue we are going to discuss today, namely the economy of hospitals and an additional allocation to correct it, was also an important part of the debate on the state budget for 2000. Since then, we have changed the government, and there have been many words in that debate in connection with the state budget, and it is now noted that the positions have changed as criticism of the amounts allocated is more cautious. What you have to say about the economy in hospitals is that you face a major challenge in the short term – you're in a table-catcher situation. With an estimated deficit of NOK 2.1 billion, it is obvious that you have to go in and cover large parts of that amount in order to get a proper hospital operation. But that must be the short-term measures. Looking at this in the longer term, there must be reason to think that so much money has been spent on the hospital sector in Norway over a number of years. There has been a real increase in the use of funds in hospitals at about 5.6 billion kroner from 1990 until today, and yet we see that we are getting a growth in deficits. And what is missing in this debate is an analysis of the causal relationship with it. It is thoughtful that, in particular, the effort-driven funding has led to the growth of deficits. So we see that the county does not have free income that is large enough to cover its share and its liabilities, and in that way the deficits are growing. And even if we get a growth in the productivity of hospitals, it's not in line with the growth you've had in personnel and in resource supply. And so, I think, there's a reason to ask ourselves if we have a hospital operation in Norway that is the same as it should be in relation to the resources allocated. I think that some of those who today promote crass criticism both against the former Minister of Health and against the sitting, are shooting targets with their criticism. One question that should be central is: how could far more patients be treated without the need for hospital services? Not: How are we going to treat far more in hospitals? It is obvious that in the treatment chain to exist, much more of the growth in Norwegian health services should have occurred outside the hospital sector, not within. This is true in relation to community health, where a significant crisis is facing today. The postponement of the fixed medical system helps to reinforce that crisis because there is uncertainty as to whether a scheme will be in place from 1 June next year, and there has been a shift from the municipal health service into the hospital system. Thus, too many patients today are treated by hospitals, patients who could have been treated in municipalities in other circumstances. Clearly, the input-driven funding, which stimulates hospitals to collect their income through activity, could quickly lead to a distortion into hospitals, where hospitals would rather argue that treatment was outside. So in such a chain of thought, it becomes important both to get the fixed medical system in place, and to strengthen the general medical service in general. Other important factors that will work are so obvious ‘banal’ schemes — banal in quotation marks because there is an important scheme — such as home-based care, such as hospital services, and where one also has it as a model, a good hospital model, simply because there is now solid coverage to say that where one has that type of services in place and they are well-functioning, the use of hospitals is less than where one lacks services. Not least in relation to hospitals. Therefore, there is reason to bet much wider than what is being done today, and there is reason to warn against such a strong focus on further growth into hospitals, because then you will still get out of trouble where you have to cover the deficits that occur. In conclusion, I noted in the debate in December that, among other things. Gunhild The eye from the Workers' Party also asked that it be emphasised in the protocol that the Workers' Party expected the Minister of Health to return to the Stortinget early in 2000 with regard to how the hospital exposure should be. Now we're in June. I see that the criticism from the Workers' Party has been much muted in relation to the deficits, and that instead one now defends the fact that the containment is not fully present. There's reason to think in this room too, because how to turn in relation to the argument is dependent on whether you're in position or in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e402	In examining the budget for the current year, doubts were raised as to whether the financial basis had been set for a 2 pst. growth in patient treatment, as announced by the Bondevik government. The size of the budget was confronted with fragmented calculations and thus a weak basis for decision-making for its budgetary decisions. Much suggested that there was no economic basis for increased patient treatment. The Committee therefore called for a full review of the hospital economy so that the various actors – the State, the Municipalities’ Central Association and the county councils – could arrive at a unified understanding of the reality. It was correct and necessary that the Bondevik government followed up the Storting's clear recommendation, so that one could restore the trust between, among other things, the necessary. the State and the counties. The working party considers it important to ensure this trust between the parties in the reference group and to establish a continuous follow-up and further development body of the ISF scheme. Hospitals must be able to operate on the basis of predictability and where the financial framework for their operation is ensured, so that individual hospital units are not forced into drastic action in the middle of the budget year, which in turn more or less randomly affects patients. Regardless of the governance model, funding system or priorities, Norwegian patients must expect reasonable predictability of access to healthcare. Just as little as a school or kindergarten department can be closed in the middle of the year, a health service can just disappear. We have even seen this example of mid-treatment events – one example is the gender shift treatment at the Rikshospitalet in Oslo. There is no doubt that county councils for their part have had a tight framework for operating expenditure and that there is a need for improvements to the ISF system, so that the State can contribute to a more secure and predictable economy for hospital owners. In addition to a number of enquiries from hospital owners in our county municipalities, I have noted with interest Mr. Ullevål's director Karl Glad's statements on the Business Day, June 9th this year, where he among others. believes that the financing system for hospitals is operating very poorly in practice and that significant system improvements are required. I also think it is important that the individual hospital should be given greater responsibility for its operation, as in particular. can be achieved by implementing new law on municipal companies. I am pleased that, in addition to the Government's proposal for additional funding of SEK 1.25 billion, an increase of another SEK 520 million was possible. to operate in connection with the processing of the revised budget by the Storting. Nor does this appropriation solve all the problems of county councils, but it provides opportunities to ensure a proper level of operation at our hospitals. I would like to refute the fact that hospitals are going to be in crisis as a result of cuts in equipment investments. The procedures laid down are that county councils are reimbursed the State share of equipment in March of the year following the investment. Thus, the county councils have already paid the State’s share for 2000 of 380 million. kr. Therefore, it is possible to re-prioritise the budgeted amount for other purposes that strengthen patient treatment. The equipment plan must therefore be implemented as planned. Finally, I would like to say that there are signs of a serious financial crisis when hospitals have to be added 1,770 million. to operate in the audit of the budget of the year. I would like to remind you that our current Minister for Health has made a significant contribution to providing fresh funds in the middle of a financial year with budget excesses in a number of fields. I also want to support the Government's prioritisation of work on better organisational and financial solutions for our hospitals, as the Government itself has warned, and I am very surprised that some parties in this room find themselves able to criticise that the Government has set itself new and high targets in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e429	When the Government promoted St.prp. No 47 for 1999-2000, on the hospital economy and budget 2000, it was fully aware that the proposed supplementary appropriations could not solve all the financial problems facing hospitals and their owners. The economic challenges for hospitals cannot be solved in a hand-turn and with appropriations alone. The problems have built up over several years, and it will take time to solve them. There is no disagreement that there has developed a gap between the costs of hospitals and county municipalities on the one hand and their income base to finance them on the other. This was clearly already at the time of the adoption of the year's budget. The proposition promoted by the Government was a contribution to filling this gap, but it was never meant to be fully filled in by such an additional allocation. When discussing the financial problems in the hospital sector, it is important to be aware that they also relate to basic positive developments in and at hospitals. Norwegian hospitals are treating more and more patients. Intervention-driven funding has led to better use of personnel and equipment than before. The number of breaches of the waiting list guarantee is reduced. In other words, we are not talking about an economic or financial crisis as a result of generally poor hospital operations. There will always be opportunities for improvement on the operational side, but the cost increases we have seen are mainly related to the increase in output. This basic context also applies when the production consists of treating patients. Costs are increasing both because more patients are being treated, and because the development of medical competence and equipment is progressing rapidly. Hospitals are treating increasingly complex disease cases. It is in itself positive that more and more complicated disease cases are being treated and actually treated in our hospitals. It is in line with the requirements of the welfare society. At the same time, we must recognize that there are limits to how strong we can grow in our hospitals with the financial framework the hospital owners must always give priority. In the proposition that underpins today’s suspension, the Government proposed exceptional allocations to hospitals of a total of DKK 1.25 billion. It was then taken into account that the growth in 1999 had become 4-5 pst., which was significantly higher than originally foreseen. Thus, the initial level of activity growth in the current year was also significantly higher than foreseen. Overall, these conditions resulted in additional costs of a total of 510 million. kr. Additional 740 million. kr was proposed as additional appropriations for the free income of county councils, coverage of increased patient weight, increased cancer treatment, readjustment of outpatient rates and increased grants to regional hospitals. This is an important contribution to the objective of a 2 pst growth. in the level of activity can also be reached this year. However, it is not possible through such appropriations to guarantee that specific growth targets can be met. There are many more elements than the state allocations that determine this, including the effectiveness measures the hospitals and their owners succeed in. I have noticed, of course, that the committee believes it is right to provide the county councils with increased resources for patient treatment in addition to what has been proposed in St.prp. No 47, and that a majority proposes an increase of 520 million. kr, which is to be disposed of entirely for the treatment of patients. Such an increase would mean that the gap between the costs of hospitals and the ability of county municipalities to finance them can be covered more quickly. I naturally welcome the implementation of such a proposal. At the same time, I would point out that this does not really solve the financial problems of the hospital sector either. They have evolved over time, and it will necessarily take time and require more than appropriations to work out of them. As the representative of Ballo has just pointed out, there may also be reason to ask questions about whether we have a proper hospital business today. And I would like to admit that shortly after joining as a health minister, I was in doubt about the amount of supplementary funding that should go to the hospital sector before a detailed review of the operating arrangements, the financing system, etc. had been carried out. The proposition goes into the criticism that has been raised against the effort-driven funding of hospitals. There was no gap between unit price developments and unit cost developments in the ISF scheme through the work of the researchers. I believe that the preparation of the proposition has shown that there is reason to trust effort-driven financing as a principle. It works after the intentions, as a good incentive for increased patient treatment. However, there is no reason to settle down on this. The ISF scheme is a system that requires constant monitoring and improvement. At the same time, it is a reasonable requirement that the system be as predictable as possible. Then we need to balance the need to keep the system and the rules in order and the need for improvement. I have noticed that the majority of the committee is reassured that the preliminary ISF evaluation does not show negative distortion effects away from heavy over to light patients during the first period of ISF. The work on this landfill proposal has been carried out in close cooperation between representatives of the State, the counties, hospitals and the Municipalities' Central Associations and with the support of central research communities. There has been fruitful cooperation for the benefit of all parties. I have noticed that the committee has given its support to this form of work. I believe that further cooperation between all the parties involved is a prerequisite for success in the future. This also applies to the work undertaken by the Government with a view to creating a more robust model for the hospital sector over the next two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e455	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e458	As mentioned in my previous post, the Prime Minister has stated that during a two-year period, this government will try to solve the problems we are currently struggling with in the health sector. And I assume that when the Prime Minister says this, it's said in agreement with the Minister of Health. And the Minister of Health, especially before accession, has given public signals that very much needs to be changed in the Norwegian health system, signals that I have greatly appreciated and have high expectations for. Then I'm not talking primarily about resources, I'm talking about new organization. In the Saturday, 10 June, there are two supervisors at the Feiringklinik, who express themselves and advise the Government in terms of getting to the Public Health Service. These are doctors who have worked in public hospitals, preferably in the Rikshospitalet, and today perform four times as many treatments as they did in the public hospital. It says something. But I could imagine asking the Minister of Health on the basis of the recommendation given here, whether he would introduce stronger price financing, establish smaller, autonomous units in hospitals for more rational operations, promote good results in hospitals and get to less bureaucracy, fewer meetings and more practical work. Is this something that the Minister of Health might consider, or has the Minister of Health already assessed on these lines of thought?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e469	I have noticed the advice given through the media, and as this refers to, and I can be brief in my answer: Yes, I think this is good advice. Some of them I have already assessed, and the others I intend to base my further work on improvements in the hospital sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e474	The proposition says to continue. ‘The aim of the day is that the entire population, irrespective of the economic and social situation, should have access to equivalent health services.’ I could imagine asking the Minister for Health: What healthcare does the County Council think the county council should consider buying abroad? And does the Council of State want to dimension the healthcare system in this country so that the vast majority of patients can be treated domestically, or will it rely on health services not being able to deal with patients and thus fail not only the principle of proximity in treatment but also on the competence of the healthcare system to treat patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e492	Firstly, there is no doubt that the vast majority of patients will be treated in Norwegian hospitals in the future. When I have been involved in treatment abroad as an alternative, it is mainly as follows: either as an add-on to treatment in Norwegian hospitals when there are capacity problems, or even if in some areas there is a lack of competence and perhaps not a large number of patients who make it rational to build up a competence in Norwegian hospitals, and where this can be better resolved by treatments abroad. In these cases, I think it is well justified to build up a firm offer of treatment abroad, but I cannot be specific today in my answer to the representative Næss" questions about what types of treatment it might be about, but there will be an opportunity to come back later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e499	I think it was an interesting answer the Health Minister now gave to Are Ness. In any case, I agree that it is precisely in those cases where we have a situation of short-term capacity problems, that we should be able to go abroad, as we did with the heart bridge in the 1980s, it was well, or when we have a lack of competence or there are patient groups where there are few, and who need such highly qualified treatment that it is more rational to cooperate on treatment at Nordic or European level. – So I thought that was an interesting information. I mentioned in my post that we now, apparently at least, without any risk of equipment investment, can cut them off because the counties are unable to fulfill their part. I asked the Health Minister if he could comment on it, and I ask now, since he did not include it in his statement, whether he will assess the distribution of expenditure between the state and county councils that is currently in the equipment plan, namely 60 pst. on the state and 40 pst. in the counties. In any case, it is not reasonable to cut investment, since they should provide the basis for a more cost-effective treatment in the future. It is therefore serious if this situation continues, that the counties are unable to comply with their investment plans. It is against this background that I am asking the Minister of Health to assess this scheme so that we do not risk extending the equipment plan at the end because the counties have not been able to fulfil their part of the fissure layer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e506	First, let me assure you that the agreed equipment plan, which requires the State to grant NOK 2,960 billion as a grant for equipment investment in hospitals, is in place and will be implemented as set out over the period 1998-2002. These appropriations have been made transferable precisely because one has to expect that when implementing such a plan, it could be rational to make shifts between years. And that's what you've done so far. I agree that it is not reasonable to implement a real cut in such an investment plan. But I'd like to say that this, like in other areas, might make sense to make time shifts. It is common in all activities that when acute financial crises may arise, one looks at whether one can push on the investments for a year or two, or at least push on some of them for a year or two. Although isolated, it doesn't have to be a problem. I believe that it should not be in this case either. Otherwise, there is no problem in carrying out such a reassessment as I am being asked here, but in case I will return to Stortinget with later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e515	It could have been interesting to get a short version at least from the Minister of Health of how to meet the Prime Minister’s statement on a more robust and effective healthcare system. Something we've got, and it's clear there's no time for it in a line, but I think maybe the consistency could have been a little bit more focused on it in the post of the Minister of Health. Then we have a statement here from the Minister of Health that shortly after accession he was in doubt whether more money should be allocated to the health care system, as I understood it. Does the Minister of Health think that there is enough money in our healthcare system today? Is organisational intervention only to be carried out? We have several factors that may affect the level of costs outside both the Minister of Health and our decision-making framework so far, it is with wages, it is the medical-technological development of high-cost medicine, and that is also the case with the older age of the population. I think, in particular, that pay is something that should be taken care of, at least if you're going to do an organisational act. We now pay a lot for security arrangements, but get little service done. From the proposition, I pick up something that's interesting. As a cost-effective element, it is stated that the medical services in hospital ‘not only according to emergency needs, but also taking into account the personal needs of doctors and the specific needs of hospital management’. Can the Minister of Health comment on this? What can be done here in a short time?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e529	There were a lot of questions to answer in a short line, so I think at least I'll let myself skip the short version of the measures that need to be implemented to clean up the hospital sector for the next two years, except that I'll probably say that there needs to be action within the purely organisational framework, i.e. how the hospitals and the hospital sector are organized today. When it comes to the question of whether there is enough money in the health sector or in the hospital sector, I also find that a difficult question. On the one hand, if you see the needs that are there, at least in the sense that there is treatment that can be done in hospitals, it is probably almost never so that you can say that now there is enough money. When I was in doubt, and so far there is still something in doubt, about how fast or how large additional appropriations should go to this sector, it is precisely because there is reason to ask questions about whether it is organised and operated in a suitable way overall. Then, as such a crisis develops over a long period of time, I'm always in doubt whether it makes sense to try to correct it with one large allocation, whether it's not better though trying to work out the problems for a little while. To the last question, I have to say that I think there is every reason to look more closely at the watch arrangements to which the representative refers, but I do not have time to go into them now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e538	I will first just clarify two things. One is that I will, on behalf of SV, promote the proposal we have, before I come back to a question to the Council of State. The second is that I understand that Norway is now leading 1-0 over Spain, and I think that is pleasing. With regard to effort-driven financing and the funding system we are facing, I agree with the Council of State that it is an incentive to increase efficiency. It is also calculated as a production gain, and it appears that you are in a growth phase, where hospitals are able to increase productivity from year to year, and that you are also picking up an improved income base. But the problem I want to raise with the Council of State – if you take, for example, the Church Hospital, which has a impact field of some and thirty thousand, which it may be questionable if is large enough, but which is therefore about. 600 km from the next hospital – is that it is very difficult to obtain an productivity gain unless you can recruit people to travel far to that hospital, while there may be good social reasons why the hospital should be located there, among others. simply for emergency medical reasons. In that case, the input-driven funding could be considered to be a poor tool, among other things. to ensure the operation of that type of hospital. We see now that you cancel 30 employees at the Kirkenes Hospital. I would like to ask the Council of State if he sees that there may be a need for more differentiated instruments for different hospitals to ensure a distribution of hospitals, so that there is no massive centralisation based solely on the idea of increased productivity, without taking into account that there should also be proximity to the various hospital units.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e550	The President has to thank someone for keeping up-to-date in the football game, but seems so far that it might be a little daring to tell the Council of State this now, because it could ruin his concentration on the questions that followed. But we'll see. Olav Gunnar Ballo has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e555	It at least improves the sense of recording that the land is in good health. The answer I can give to the representative, Ballo, is that I am committed to maintaining the effort-driven funding as a principle and as a system, which we will of course be improving in the future, but also as an important part of the financing of hospitals. But I don't think it can be the only part, and it's not today either. As far as the other financial solutions are concerned, I agree that they need to be differentiated according to the specific situations of some of the hospitals. The country is different. The tasks of hospitals are therefore also different. It would not be appropriate to have one form of financing which should apply equally to all. There are certain adaptations to this today, including: in the case of specific grants to regional hospitals. I think we also have to be open to differentiate to take account of other special circumstances, and without me going into the situation in Kirkenes, it might well be an example of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e564	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e569	For many years, the issue of the economy of hospitals has been the most widely discussed issue in the budget work in Stortinget. The difference in the perception of economic needs is far too great, and predictability is far too poor both for hospital owners and for the state as a granting authority. This cannot go on like this, because it can hit patients in an unfortunate way. The significant additional allocation to hospitals for which the Government and the majority of the population have been responsible in this round is very positive. However, predictability is too poor when large additional appropriations have to be made in the middle of a financial year. It is important to ensure a good and reliable public health system that places the patient’s needs in the centre and does not discriminate in any way. The Norwegian public health system must be such that it is equally good for everyone, regardless of their private economy and place of residence. In some parts of the country, healthcare is more expensive than elsewhere because of large distances. Here, too, the need for hospitals is an important response in some parts of the country. This, too, must be taken into account in the future in the allocation of the health sector. Rapid development in the form of technology and skills is increasing health opportunities. This sets great requirements for updating in relation to operational development and the economy, and a greater understanding of the economic needs of such changes needs to be created. This is why it is so important to establish a focal point for the ongoing follow-up of the hospital economy, as an overall social committee is concerned. I also believe that reorganising the operation of public hospitals can create both a greater degree of predictability and a better use of resources. In any case, the main message must be that the Storting should ensure a good public health system in the future, without any restrictions that would cause patients to suffer harm. In my opinion, it is urgent to have a better system and a better predictability of the operation of our hospitals. And I have great faith that this is a matter that Health Minister Tune and the rest of the Government will take a force to get in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e588	Today is a quite dramatic day for Norwegian health care. For the Nordic health care system and patients in the region, today is almost a disaster. What I'm thinking about is the huge consequences that a reduction in transfers to hospitals would have to bring. It is totally incomprehensible to me that the Workers' Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left can be involved in pursuing a policy that reduces the resources of the healthcare system in such a way as we now see. The good health service that the Regional Hospital in Tromsø has built up over decades will be greatly reduced and weakened this evening. As a result of the will of the majority of the population, more than 200 employees in RiTø will have to leave their posts. Departments and bed posts must close, which has consequences for people's lives and health. Professional and medical expertise is also being tapped, which may lead to a reduction in and disintegration of your current professional environments. In addition, it will of course be difficult to recruit other health professionals to a hospital that is constantly in financial crisis. The closure of the rehabilitation offer at the Regional Hospital is one of the proposals made by the hospital board to save money. Last year, new premises were moved into the country, and a top-level rehabilitation offer for patients from the country is about to be built up. This year it was estimated that 250 patients would receive treatment. So now hundreds of users will lose their offer as a result of the lack of funding by the majority of the population. Patients who have been exposed to accidents, strokes or other serious diseases are totally unsolicited when this offer is made. Now it is not only RiTø that is affected by the lack of funding from the majority of Norwegian health services. All hospitals in the country are in crisis. At the Church Hospital, management is forced to cancel almost 10 p.m. by the employees. This means that the provision of patient treatment is significantly reduced. Reduced treatment provision leads to longer hospital cows and further deterioration of the individual patient’s quality of life. It is unacceptable that the inhabitants of Kirkenes should have such a dramatic reduction in their health services because they do not want to give priority to the necessary hospital treatment. The staff who now disappear from the hospital cannot be expected to return continuously if one chooses to prioritize health at the next crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e599	Unlike the previous speakers, I am very satisfied with this commitment to hospitals. Now it's up to the county councils to control better times. The control tool is located, among others: in providing operational and budgetary responsibilities and by having good follow-up procedures that detect discrepancies at an early stage. At the same time, improvements to the ISF system must be worked on by the country in order to make it more predictable. We were very worried about the news we received in the autumn last year about the impact of the DRG crop. This also led to sharp reactions by the Stortinge Group during the review of the 2000 budget. It was unanimous to ask the then seated government to return quickly to Stortinget with an assessment of the situation and proposals to strengthen operations. It turned out that it was the new health minister who promoted the proposal to strengthen the hospital economy by NOK 1.25 billion, and we are all pleased that during the treatment here in the Stortingen, it has increased by 520 million. kr. This should ensure an adequate level of operation for our hospitals. It is important that the ISF scheme generates real activity growth. However, the reduced reference group has identified differences in registration, which makes it impractical to remove the encryption process at this stage. However, this may be the case later when the required quality of registration has been achieved. I am also pleased that the equipment plan is on track. Some have tried to produce a crisis in the hospital sector as a result of cuts in equipment investment. This is not only excessively exaggerated, but almost incorrect. We know that the state's share of 380 million. kr for this year has been paid. The budgeted amount for the year 2000 will therefore not be used and may be used for other purposes. Nevertheless, the investment package shall be implemented as foreseen. The Labour Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have clarified that the 520 million. kr proposed in addition to the allocation in St.prp. point 47 is an increased means of patient treatment. It's important to stress that this is divided by 300 million. kr to strengthen the ISF, which shall provide the basis for necessary regulatory adjustment, inter alia. increase in the unit price and 220 million. kr is used to strengthen the framework of county councils. More than ever has been addressed, and this appropriation shall contribute to further increase in activity. However, increased treatment also leads to increased expenditure. That's why Stortingen now comes with this solution. I think county politicians and county administrations all over the country now have the necessary work to find better organisational and management tools for hospitals. It is absolutely necessary to streamline and re-prioritize in line with the income frameworks provided in the annual government budgets. That task I am sure will be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e614	It is necessary for me to come back to a few comments from two representatives of the Labour Party in the debate. The representative, Asmund Kristoffersen, says it doesn't separate more than 170 million. D between the allocation of the majority of the appropriations and the motion for a resolution of the Committee of the Regions. That's right. But the difference is that the whole of the Advance Party's allocation is fresh money. We have not cut one ear from the proposals in the revised national budget. We've kept the hospital equipment money. We've kept the money for the psychiatry. We've kept the rehabilitation money. And we have above all covered in the immoral increase of the excesses for sick people. There's a heavenly difference between this and what the majority here are doing, where you de facto run with double accounting. Then it is quite amazing that the representative Gunhild Eye from this pulpit can say that she is happy that the majority has brought so much fresh funds. There's not five ears in fresh air. There is a use of money that was proposed for other measures in hospitals and that hospitals are now losing. Yes, actually worse than that – overall, the position of the majority of the social committee is worse on the part of hospitals than on the basis of the Government's proposal in St.prp. No 47 and in the revised national budget. So finally, if the majority in this room think they're spending too much money on health and care, and if you think this is inflation-moving and interest-increasing, why don't you write it out right in the proposition and in the setting, so the entire Norwegian people can read that it's the sick, the caring, that's the danger of inflation and interest rate increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e625	It was the Council of State's opinions on the investments in hospital equipment that led me to take the floor. I would like to challenge the Council of State on this one more time. As far as I was aware, he said that equipment investments were very important, because when there was a possible shortage of skilled labour, it was important that those who were there had the best equipment possible. But then he added that it wasn't so dangerous if equipment acquisitions were extended in time; if you didn't have the power to use what was meant, and push it over to a year later, or two, it wasn't that significant. These are two points of view that are starved at each other. I would like to have the Council of State's explanation for this. And so I'd like to ask: if that's the way it is, the hospitals have clear order lists on what equipment they need, and plans for acquisition and the state – or the Stortinget – have allocated money to it, but then the county councils of the same state have been given too little money, so that the state has acquired the county councils to blame for saving money on its own, it's really so that you can't afford to distribute the 540 million. Do you really want to delete this item? And then it's going to be 760 million. kr that the majority will cut in equipment acquisitions. You have 760 million. kr, hospitals need to purchase equipment, so the Minister of Health is not able to communicate these 760 million. to the hospitals to purchase equipment. If we're talking about some 40/60 distribution and spice layer scheme, the council has to be able to say OK, then we're going to make a new arrangement. We know that hospitals need this equipment, we know that they are ready to buy it. They need money, and we have the money. Is it really that bad about our central government? If you're really looking at those degrees that are indestructible, you can't be able to communicate these 760 million. to the hospital directors so that they can purchase the equipment they have planned and have on their lists available? I don't understand that. Nor does the Norwegian people understand that in a situation that is now cutting 760 million. kr that hospital directors can use for equipment, thereby getting more work done by the personnel and thus actually making sure that nurses and doctors come out of the boreholes. Because with modern equipment, this limited resource can treat several patients. Why in the world can't such a powerful organizational man as the Minister of Health make sure that these 760 million people are transferred to hospitals, regardless of how they have organized this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e634	Only two brief clarifications. Honor him who should be honored. I made a mistake by not mentioning that the Right was on the majority proposal on supplementary appropriations of 1770 million. kr. It is a strength for our hospitals that the majority of things in the situation have gathered a broad majority. And then the second: Yes, the Workers' Party was impatient after promoting this matter of necessary additional appropriations. Everyone in the social committee saw the need for it. I have to note that the Bondevik administration had not promoted such a proposition before it expired on 17 March, but I guess it was similar around the corner. I have reason to believe that. But only 28 days after the new government had joined, the matter was promoted for Stortinget. I think it was a very rapid reaction in relation to the work that a new political leadership had to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e643	I'm going to try to make some comments on the challenges that Mr. Hagen gave me here. Firstly, I do not see the big difference between stressing the importance of implementing an exceptional equipment procurement plan for a period from 1998 to 2002 and implementing certain shifts from one year to another in the implementation of that plan. What I meant to say about it is that it is not uncommon – at least not in other businesses I know – that when there is a difficult economic situation or a financial crisis situation, one looks at whether there are investments that can be shifted from one year to another without the greatest adverse effects altogether. With regard to the equipment plan in question, I would like to emphasise once again that it is firm, and that it will be implemented according to the plan in the sense that NOK 2,960 billion will be granted by the state as 60 pst. grants for equipment investments planned by county councils and their hospitals. I have dealt with that plan as described there, but as I have said earlier here, it is possible to come back to the Stortinget with proposals for changes to the scheme that has been used in the past. With regard to the second part of Hagen’s challenge, it is my impression that the acquisitions that are now being refunded are planned on the basis of plans presented by individual municipalities. And according to the plans, which the state then has to finance with 60 pst. So there is a need for 380 million. kr, for which there is ample room in the budget of the year. If you want to do more than that – and I am not a stranger to it – you must at least get new plans from county or county hospitals. I do not think it is easy without further sending more money out to these on short notice when there are no such plans. But if they do, it is clear that it can be assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e652	The hospital economy has been and will continue to be a hot topic in the societal debate. For this reason, it is an overall objective for all to develop mechanisms that provide more predictability and greater security for a necessary and good patient treatment. It has been used today as a skipper roof, and it is clear that we do not have to make this a shipper's taxi case, but that we now need to have a continuity in looking at what can be done further in order to get a better and more robust and efficient healthcare system. Then it's important to have dialogue, and that's why in my first post I also said that we want a dialogue between the Department and the KS before we, for example. looking at the nature of the guest patient payment scheme. We also ask in this case that the Government set up a liaison body for the ongoing follow-up of the hospital economy, and the experience of what the central government provided and worked on in winter in relation to the reference group and the research environment, suggests that there should be a more permanent system. And as a little line to Asmund Kristoffersen: I think it's pretty pointless if the work that was done was not to come from the center government. This matter was actually notified in our papers – also that it would come before the end of March – so it was only about days, as I said. It is important that we get more predictability and security in this respect with patient treatment and hospital care. And I agree with Agent Ballo that the whole treatment chain here needs to be seen in a context. A chain is, as you know, no stronger than the weakest joint. That's why it's important that we see the whole thing here, and also that we look at what primary health services mean. I agree with the representative of Ballo that the hospital economy and the hospital sector will be relieved of a part of what is now economically burdensome and is being charged to that bill, if more can be done and done in the primary health service. Otherwise, I would just like to say that I am pleased with the signals that the Minister of Health has given here in terms of looking a little further at different opportunities, for example. in the case of differentiated instruments in addition to the ISF system in relation to the financing of hospitals and different categories of hospitals. It's a scheme that at least I would like to welcome on behalf of the Center Party – that we don't just see ourselves blindly on the ISF funding model.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e664	I didn't really intend to speak on this matter, but I wonder when the Minister of Health in his speech finally says that in difficult economic times investment is being pushed, and refers to the saving method that the majority of the Grand Duchy is about to adopt today – in difficult economic times. Then I just have to say, it is not the state's difficult economic situation that is the matter here. For money we have enough of, the problem is probably just how we're going to spend this money. We are in a situation today where rehabilitation services are raging all over the country. We are in a situation where a number of rehabilitation institutions are about to have to input the years because there is no money to operate. And we are still seeing new examples of hospitals that are struggling financially. The churches have been mentioned here today, and also the RITØ. The question is, where is this going to end? And then it is clear that in difficult economic times we are pushing investment. I hope you'll soon get your eyes up so that by investing in hospital equipment you can actually make patient treatment more effective. By taking advantage of the best equipment in this country, people can both get back to work quickly and get a better life situation. We have to stop saying that we have a difficult economic situation. Those who have a difficult economic situation are the hospitals, who are not allowed to invest in equipment and therefore treat patients with the best methods. Then, as central politicians, we get these hospitals to have this opportunity for investment. When we say that we're taking from the investment budget and transferring on the operating side to the hospitals, and then we say that it creates pressure in the economy if we dump more money into the health care system, it's to say that investing in hospital equipment doesn't create the pressure in the economy like wasting money. So we can safely maintain the money for hospital equipment in this country, so that as much as possible get the best treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e673	I just want to say at the end of a debate that I think is important for the further work on the hospitals' economy, that I probably don't look at the majority's proposal for an increase of 520 million. So I, as it has been said before, am going down a lot. In view of the very special situation that has developed over time in the Norwegian hospital sector, I do not think it is so alarming whether there may be any different assessments of how quickly, through increased appropriations, one should aim to work out of the situation. I also stress that the majority is also proposing increased funds for more of the same measures proposed by the Government. Then again, I would like to say to the somewhat critical remarks that have come to light that there has been a reduction in the amount available in the year's budget for equipment investments, that I have a little difficulty in seeing that this is something that has dramatic consequences in relation to the plans made by county councils and hospitals. These plans will be implemented as intended, and I will claim that the entire extraordinary equipment plan will also be implemented as foreseen. It is not the case that these cuts have been carried out because of the difficult economic situation of the country. It has nothing to do with it. In my opinion, it would not be rational to carry out larger equipment investments this year than the hospitals and county councils have planned. But a strong increase in relation to this, on top of the other problems that the sector is struggling with, I think in the short term will create problems rather than the opposite. Then I think it is better to implement the plans that lie there and, if necessary, in the years to come, to increase efforts in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e685	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3553]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e700	Norway has just turned Spain into 1-0 in the European Football Championship. There's a reason to celebrate this, and I will also do that -- 100 pst. alcohol-free, of course. I sympathise with Steinar Bastisen's proposal to drink that is branded non-alcoholic, is going to be 100 pst. alcohol-free. But in the committee we have seen the practical objections mentioned in letters from the Minister of Health, and we accept this as being true. However, the Christian People’s Party, the Center Party, and the SV claim that a product marketed as alcohol-free must have the lowest possible alcoholic strength. We also believe that such products must be labelled in such a way as to make clear the actual maximum alcoholic strength. This is done, among other things. in the case of alcohol-free pages, where the manufacturer cannot guarantee that a certain low alcoholic strength is not present in the product and therefore indicates the maximum alcoholic strength by volume at which, as far as I recall, the limit is 0,7 % vol. I would like to ask the Minister of Health if he sees any problems in introducing such labelling with the actual, possibly maximum, alcoholic strength of beer marketed as non-alcoholic. Does the Minister of Health see any problems with this or any reason not to implement such a scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e709	When I promote this proposal, it's based on the fact that it's actually up to 0.9 pst. alcohol in what is marketed as non-alcoholic beer. It must be noted, then, that it is not alcohol-free. In the worst case, there must be a breach of the marketing law when it is marketed as non-alcoholic and non-alcoholic. The previous speaker who was up here just pointed to the problem: why can't what is sold with alcohol be labelled with alcohol? Why should people be fooled into thinking that they drink alcohol free, when there's almost one percent by volume of alcohol in what they drink? We decided a few days ago that the per mille limit should be reduced to 0.2. A consistent approach to this issue should be pursued. When you drink three to four bottles of this beer, you have over 0.2 per million in your blood. Then you've tricked people when you say this is non-alcoholic. That's another aspect I think is important. Dried alcoholics must have very little alcohol to ignite and start drinking again. I have to say that if they drink so-called alcohol-free beer and get ignition so they're on the road again, then we in this room are responsible for it. I don't understand what kind of problem it should be for the breweries to replace the labels on the bottles and write in the text what this is about. Tell people that there can be up to 0.9 or 0.7 percent by volume in the beer they drink. What's the problem? I think it is remarkable that the whole committee does not see the problem, but is in favour of rejecting this proposal. I think SV had a useful presentation in her comment and hers in relation to the committee. That's exactly what this is all about. I am very pleased that SV has pointed out this very thing. But what I think is remarkable is that Christian People's Party, which is supposed to be abstinence party no. 1, could not be on that note. I think that's a little weird. I'm of course maintaining the proposal, and it's a little bit interesting to see what kind of treatment it gets in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e722	As the representative of Bastesen in his proposal has some claims, including: That three to four bottles of non-alcoholic beer will lead to a pro-mille above the new pro-mille limit, we contacted the Rechtstoksikologist Institute to ask us about the effect, and got some information about this. I'm not going to go into all the details, but it was said that it was practically impossible to get a pro mill of 0.3 on consumption of four bottles of light beer of 0.9 vol. The example they used was a 50 kg woman. If she drank four bottles of light beer of 0.9 per cent by one hour, she could achieve one per million almost opposite the new per million limit of 0.2 pst. In connection with the proposal, the representative Bastesen has also claimed that it can create problems for dried alcoholics. I have been in contact with a leader of an association for dried alcoholics and confronted him with this claim. He says that, so to speak, all the dried alcoholics stay away from everything that has to do with beer and wine, because of the taste and because of the psychological by taking a beer. So he thought that claim fell on his own unfairness. During the examination of this matter, the Committee sent a request to the Ministry and received a letter back from the Minister for Health, referring to the label requirement which prohibits labelling that could mislead the purchaser as to the characteristics of the food, such as: alcohol content. The Committee has noted that these are rules based on an EU Directive and that the introduction of stricter national rules can be seen as a technical barrier to trade which cannot be accepted under the EEA Agreement. The Committee points out that the legislation is based on obligations to which we have agreed, as well as on practical reasons for which it is not appropriate to impose requirements that beers labelled as non-alcoholic should be 100 pst. free of alcohol. On this basis, it was proposed to reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e735	I have to ask the proposer to read the committee's configuration a little more thoroughly. When he says that the Socialist Left Party has a sensible comment, it's all right. But there are actually a few more parties that are on that note, and that is the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The reason for this is that all the parties in the committee are united that there are practical problems in requiring that beer marketed as non-alcoholic really be 100 pst. alcohol-free. These include: also practical problems with respect to the method of manufacture. That is why we say in our remark in the setting that we still see it as a problem that such marketing can be perceived as misleading, and that it must be a goal that a product that is marketed as alcohol-free is also alcohol-free. In any case, such products should be labelled in such a way as to indicate the maximum alcoholic strength. Whether it's 0.75 or 0.4 or whatever, it should be on the product. There is also a significant point in relation to any beer type that is 100 pst. alcohol-free, whether it might be on the market later. I believe that it would be in the interests of Norwegian marketers as well as in the interests of EU directive makers that what is alcohol is clearly stated, so that what is, if any, 100 pst. alcohol-free, may be marketed and used as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e740	I don't think I have much to add to this debate so far and in relation to a unanimous vote by the committee. But I have taken note of what has come here, both of questions and what the last representative, at last, thought of Joy should be a goal in achieving labelling rules that are at least as close to the actual situation as possible, and if practical, even closer to what is the case today. So I have pointed out earlier, as it has also emerged here, that there are purely technical and practical problems associated with it. But this does not prevent us from working on it and trying to meet the concerns that some of the representatives here have pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e745	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3554]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e759	St. pp. No 81 deals with the ceiling system for doctors, physiotherapists and psychologists. The negotiations about the settlement were not concluded when we were sent it, so it was about giving an approval in relation to the allocation for the settlement to take place. In this respect, the Committee refers to the letter of 4 June 2000 from the Minister of Finance to the Stortinget, which states that Chapter 2309 Random expenditure is largely spent, so that there is no longer any cover for the costs of medical, physiotherapists and psychologists’ ceilings, contrary to what was stated in St.prp. No 81 for 1999-2000. In the absence of any government budget coverage for the expenditure referred to here, the Committee, in its observations, assumes that the Government clears the budgetary envelope and returns to the Stortinge with proposals for additional appropriations in the budget for the autumn, and that the recovery is not taken from the purpose of the Stortinget already granted funds. The Committee also points out in its joint comments to Section 11, Amendments to the current budget, that matters relating to a larger sum should be submitted to the Stortinget as proposals for supplementary appropriations. The Committee also points out that it is considered unfortunate that the basis for the examination of the matter in question is characterised by a number of essential unexplained facts. The Committee would therefore stress, as a whole, that such a procedure and the issuing of powers should not create a precedent. Furthermore, the Committee has been concerned with the practicality of not granting an authorisation here, in relation to the consequences for the settlement to take place. If this had not been clarified and the applicable tariffs were to be applied to the professions referred to, it would have had a number of practical and adverse consequences. This means that you should start adjusting the tariffs afterwards, in order to get a new settlement, which would apply to a lot of people. There would be a very bureaucratic apparatus between the different doctor, physiotherapist or psychologist and the Rikstrygdewerk, and the committee doesn't realize that there was any practical way to solve it. To this end, the Committee authorises – through proposals for the Government to: ‘authorised to make changes in the social security contributions, the permanent salary subsidies and the grants to the operating agreement for doctors, physiotherapists and psychologists from 1 July 2000 on the basis of any agreement with the Norwegian Medical Association, the Norwegian Physiotherapist Association and the Norwegian Psychological Association on the regulation of fees and operating grants from that date’. In its observations, the Committee has as a pre-requisite ‘that the Government clears the budgetary ceiling and returns to the Storting with proposals for additional appropriations in the budget for the autumn, so that recovery from the purpose of the Storting has already granted funds’.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e779	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[Fotation, see page 3554]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e793	It is a unanimous social committee that asks the Government to set up an independent investigation committee to assess all aspects of pioneering diving in the North Sea. The Committee considers that the Storting itself should only exceptionally appoint review commissions and therefore does not promote Document No. The 8th proposal. But the message is clear: we ask the Government to appoint an independent investigation commission, and it should be assessed whether a representative from the North Sea dive alliance will be given observer status in the Commission, as the divers themselves have a long experience and great competence to contribute. As rapporteur of the case, I have to admit that in my work on the matter I asked more questions than I found answers to. Why should it take almost 20 years from the introduction of the Working Environment Act in 1977 until it was first made known in 1995 also to the workers in the North Sea? When the Working Environment Act was drawn up, it was pointed out that it would benefit professional groups with particularly heavy work, and the diving profession was cited as an example. It has been difficult to find official figures on accidents and not least on the number of suicides. According to the divers themselves, the numbers are high. A link between occupational diving and increased risk of sensitising has been subsequently demonstrated in detail, such as: reduced lung function, hearing loss, cognitive failure and depression. During the hearing, it was described as a syndrome found in war ropes and in concentration camps. It made a deep impression to hear about this during the hearings. At Haukeland Hospital, there is now a good medical competence that you have to take care of. Some positive events have occurred since the Kromberg Committee presented its position on health and safety in the diving industry in 1993. In the wake of this, there were in particular two areas that were important for the divers. One was an extension in the case of diseases acquired during diving as approval for occupational injury and the other was the creation of a fund to help the divers retrain. The Habberstad Committee — an advisory diving forum — was appointed to follow-up, to gain a common understanding of the issues in different departments and to implement the recommendations of the Kromberg Committee. The Forum's activities decreased in the 1990s and ceased without reaching the Stortinget case. Last year, social security offices were informed to refer people with possible diving diseases to Haukeland Hospital. It is important that these should be carefully assessed in relation to the current rules on occupational injury in the population. New guidelines have been developed for health studies of divers. The Bondevik government also ensured that a hearing note on an economic compensation of up to NOK 200000 was sent to former North Sea divers with a permanent health defect. The state thus recognizes moral responsibility. The government of Stoltenberg has followed this up in the revised national budget. Preparedness, regulation, diving procedures and supervision of diving activities have been gradually improved. New regulations came in 1991. The problems and uncertainties surrounding the situation of the first offshore divers remain unresolved. In the consultation note, the Ministry confirms that in the first phase, one cannot ignore the fact that: ‘appeared diving which has subsequently resulted in permanent health damage. A high frequency of pressure sickness during this period is a condition that strengthens this assumption.» Director of the Gunnar Berge Oil Directorate has said that when a profession encounters difficulties, as the divers have experienced, we must be willing to go into it, so that they get fair treatment. The Social Committee believes that an independent investigation commission can contribute to this. The Committee believes that it is important to clarify what happened both prior to the start-up of diving activities and what has happened along the way. There is a need to find out what knowledge the Norwegian authorities and oil companies had at the time, and what knowledge they had in other countries. We owe this to our pioneers. They sacrificed themselves for us to share in an unfathomable wealth. In respect and gratitude to our pioneers and for our own part in a historical context, it is important that the whole and full truth of our oil adventure reaches the surface.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e832	There is no doubt that the pioneer divers have done a fantastic job for the Norwegian community, a job that has contributed both to values and international reputation for Norway. In the hearing of the committee and in conversations with representatives of this profession, I have had a small introduction to what this work really was all about, and what these people were exposed to, but I would like to admit that I probably do not fully understand what this really means. This is a feeling that I think is shared by everyone in the social committee. In a letter to the Committee, the Minister for Social Affairs said that the proposed system in the revised national budget, with special compensation for those who have suffered health problems, is based on a recognition that society has a certain moral responsibility in relation to this profession. I think the Council of State quickly took this matter into account by saying that she had already found in the revised national budget that she wanted to contribute funds for an economic compensation for those who have come into such an unfortunate situation. As I see it, for a long time there has been extensive work in the departments concerned to find out more details about the situation of the pioneers divers. Now that an overall social committee is in favour of further examination of the relationship through a separate independent investigation commission, this clearly underlines the seriousness of this matter to central authorities. I feel sure that the Council of State will do everything in its power to get this matter dealt with as quickly as possible and in a way that gives the pioneers and us other answers to the conditions that still seem unsolved. Everything should now be in place so that this important matter can have an acceptable outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e851	The left is not represented in the social committee, so I would like to take advantage of this opportunity to make some comments on a very important matter. The left fully supports the proposal that an investigation commission be set up to investigate all aspects of diving in connection with the oil operations of the pioneer period. I think the committee has a good reason for the procedure that has been adopted, and I believe that this justification has been further reinforced by the articles that have been so far. The decision taken today is important and long-term. For a long time, many unresolved issues have arisen in connection with the situation of pioneers divers. It wasn't possible in a worthy way to put a dot now. We need more answers. Not least the respect for those who are involved warrants it. The situation of the pioneer divers has dealt with me and the Left for a long time, and last year I asked two written questions to answer the Social Minister, starting from the lack of follow-up it was of the Kromberg Committee and the Habberstad Committee's settings. The former Minister of Social Affairs followed up with several concrete measures, as mentioned in the statement. It was also announced that one would look into several matters, and it also followed suggestions for a one - time amount of NOK 200,000 for pioneers with permanent health damage. The decision that is being made today is a natural follow-up to what was done by former social minister Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, and it is an important and natural next step in clarifying the circumstances surrounding this pioneering work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e864	The issue we now have to deal with is to reduce an investigation commission to identify what has happened to the divers during the pioneer season in the North Sea. The representatives of Storting Siv Jensen and Øyvind Vaksdal of the Progress Party take up its Document No. Eight proposals address a number of issues that are clearly very much in need of further consideration. The Social Committee has put forward its position, and it is a great pleasure to say that there is now a unanimous committee which agrees that a request from the Government establishes an independent investigation commission to assess all aspects of the North Sea diving in the pioneer days. I will also be allowed to commend case rapporteur Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund for the very thorough and tidy work she has done, so that today we actually have a unanimous vote by the Committee. With regard to the matter itself, it is clear that it is time for this work to be started. There is one thing in which one feels that the more one tries to get into this case complex, the more one actually gets left with more and more questions. Without prejudging the work the Commission will do, I just have to ask the question if it is not strange that this group, among other things. were exempted from the Working Environment Act for such a long time. I would also like to draw attention to the attitude, where one refers to the difficult economic situation in which a number of these divers are now in. I would therefore ask the Council of State to address this issue quickly, so that these people can be helped to get an orderly economy. For this reason, the compensation provided for in the revised national budget, up to NOK 200000, is not the solution to this problem. These people have a number of problems to come up with in the system. They have problems making a diagnosis that allows them to get professional damages. They have problems getting through the bureaucracy and getting the papers in place to get the benefits they need. Maybe there's a helping hand in this case that's going to unload them through the system. Maybe an attempt should be made to find an arrangement around the debt situation that these people have come up with, so that we can actually give them a dignified life back. Many people have had a type of disease that makes them sit apathetic in a chair and actually have problems reading an A4 sheet. I really hope the social minister will grasp this, so that we can get rid of them through the system and give them the help they really need so badly. It is natural that, once the investigation commission has completed its work, any questions relating to replacement have to be re-examined if the circumstances identified in the context of a review commission so warrant. I am also pleased that a unanimous committee asks the Government to consider giving the divers an observer spot in the Commission. It is important given the struggle these divers have waged for a number of years without being heard in the system. Then it's important that they get an observer spot, so that they also know what's going on along the way, and can feel the security of that work. The Observatory is important in order to clarify all the aspects of this case complex. This is a case that has had a positive outcome in the committee, and now it seems to have it in Stortinget. But it is primarily a recognition that it has not been done enough, and that there has not been a sufficient follow-up for this group in knowing what was done during the pioneer period. Finally, I would like to thank these divers very much for the efforts they have made for the oil nation of Norway. Now let's get all the cards on the table so these gentlemen know what happened to them. Don't let this group become our war ropes. Let's make sure to follow them up properly. Let's make sure we get answers to all the questions that we're asking ourselves. And let's make sure to give them the dignity back. They are one of the professional groups that may have given this nation the highest income — in future generations. I really hope that we will now get an answer to the questions they are asking, and – as I said – give them the dignity back.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e887	A lot has already been said about a matter on which there is a great deal of consensus in the Social Committee. But I would like to stress that it is very gratifying that the situation of the pioneers is now being taken seriously, and that this matter, which started rolling everything last year, now seems to have a concrete solution by reducing a commission. Last year, Social Minister Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa contributed to the publication of new guidelines for health studies of divers. Social security offices were informed that persons who may have diving diseases were to be referred to Haukeland Hospital. There was also an inter-departmental work, which, in a hearing opinion, made a note. It is proposed, inter alia: other that specific financial compensation is granted to former North Sea divers who have suffered a permanent health defect. NOPEF has said that it is so far positive, but it is also clear that there are some categories of divers that can fall outside this scheme – for example. those who have not applied for a disability pension and those for whom the requirement to have worked for at least three years diving before 1990 may fail. It is therefore gratifying that an independent investigation commission is now being set up, which can look at the responsibilities of both those involved, the competences surrounding the danger of such diving and the adverse effects of diving on those pioneers. It is also important – as several representatives have mentioned – that these divers are now being taken seriously and are able to follow the process initiated. This could happen in a very straightforward and positive way by giving a representative from the North Sea dive alliance an observer spot in the Commission. It must be a strength both for the pioneers and for their cause that the setting is unanimous in Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e900	As a diver and representative of the coastal population: this is a joyous day, especially for those divers who were used — and consumed — as consumer goods in the North Sea. This case has been like a workbow ever since the oil started. There were solid borders: people dived much, much deeper, they dived with blending gases that were not tested, and they dived with bad blending gases – because oil companies were supposed to save money. I'm going to promise that when the investigation starts, you'll obviously find a lot of strange. There is no medical expertise — at least there was no medical expertise; now it is starting to get in place a little after a while, the understanding of what these people, who are still alive, have been exposed to. I am very happy to be part of those who today decide that a review commission should be set up to get on the table the actual conditions. Those people this is about, are living in great pain today, and they are living under miserable social conditions. EUR 200000, proposed in the revised budget, cannot compensate for the distress and suffering they are suffering. That's why it's important that this becomes a quick follow-up, and that the Commission becomes fast-working, but thorough. And it is very important, as stated in II of the proposal, that a representative of the divers should be placed in the Commission as an observer. Because it's the one that's wearing the shoe, who knows where it's pressing. Just the experience that these people have, what they've experienced, is important for the investigation commission to get involved in. For our part, we fully support the proposal that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e911	As the author of the proposal, I must be allowed to say that I am very pleased that a unanimous social committee is now going in to appoint an independent review commission. When I first met representatives of these divers, I think I might have experienced some of the toughest thing I've ever been exposed to as a politician, namely sitting and having presented in detail so much human suffering. So many grotesque stories about suffering, workload and lack of culture made it not difficult at least to want to present this proposal. The reason why I initially proposed that we should remove this commission from the Stortinges side was that there has been a significant work in the Government related to this, without in any way leading to any result. But I'm not the least afraid that the government won't go to this task with the necessary transparency to do. Because I would like to ask the Council of State to ensure that this is an examination that has full transparency in it, an examination where one is also willing to admit any errors, both by the authorities and by the oil companies – if they exist. That's all possible reason to think that they do. It is a particularly moral aspect of this. I have registered that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has stated that the State cannot be regarded as having acted either critically or unlawfully on the occasion of the case. Of course, that's possible, but this case also has a moral side that I think we should definitely focus more on. What's bad is these divers have been fighting for their cause for so many years. In the meantime, many of them have taken their own lives. There is still a significant number of survivors and relatives with big questions, with great inadequacies, and not least for their sakes, this matter deserves great attention. As the rapporteur also said, there are more questions than answers to be found when dealing with matters related to this matter. That is why I am very pleased that it seems to be a unanimous big deal that supports this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e924	I take note that the committee wants a commission to investigate all the conditions surrounding the divers in the so-called pioneer days in the North Sea. The early stage of petroleum activity was a pioneer time for most professional groups involved, and perhaps especially for divers. Common to all of them is that after that time there has been a significant development in the area of health, the environment and safety, which I must say is very pleased. As is known, significant funds have been invested in research and development over the years, and it has provided an experience base for a regular improvement of diving procedures in terms of safety and health. This matter has been worked on for a long time. In my opinion, it is doubtful whether a review commission will be able to produce new knowledge in this area. However, I do not have any comments on an independent investigation, so that the situation can be elucidated and submitted to an overall assessment, and I will of course follow up the proposal that is available here. The proposal for a compensation scheme for divers with permanent health problems was first promoted by the Bondevik government. That proposal has been followed up by the current government in the revised national budget. We have a tradition in Norway that substitution is not used to solve such problems. On the other hand, we use popularism, as for example. disability, when disease causes you no longer to be able to work. However, once the Government has proposed a replacement, it is based on a recognition that we have a certain moral responsibility towards this profession. The proposal has sought to accommodate a group of divers who have done a risky job and who have been unemployed because of late effects. I join the committee’s award for the pioneer divers who did a groundbreaking and demanding work. As pointed out by the Committee, the scheme shall cover those who have undertaken diving to a certain extent before 1990. The Committee appears to believe that many with persistent health problems could then fall outside the scheme. However, it is proposed that the revised national budget should also include those who have suffered sensitisation due to specific events. So there is no unconditional requirement for the duration of the work that dives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e941	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3555]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e955	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3555]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e968	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e975	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's: the proposals No 1-6, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on proposal No. 7, from Inger Stolt-Nielsen on behalf of the Right First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the Child Protection Act so that children can be subjected to coercive measures not only on the basis of the best interests of the child but also in order to protect society from crime committed by children. At the same time, the government is asked to submit proposals for appropriate responses and follow-up of children and young people under the criminal detainee who has committed criminal acts. ‘...
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e998	President! I got hurt to press the wrong button.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e1005	The number of votes 76 against and 33 in favour of the proposal by the Right, and therefore the proposal has been rejected. With regard to the proposals of the Progress Party, the Right has indicated that they will vote in favour of proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The President will therefore first address this proposal to the vote. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to come back to the Storting with proposals to lower the criminal detainee.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e1021	Proposals Nos. One, two, four, five and six, from the Progress Party, is then taken up for voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to initiate education in the public sector and respect for other people’s property in school.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to set up several smaller, safe-for- escape institutions based on clear disciplinary rules and a sensible pedagogic course, which can teach young criminals proper folklore, with normal schooling and work training that can qualify them for work.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to establish a mandated cooperation between the Ministry of Children and the Family Ministry and the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research for the purpose of family guidance adapted to Norwegian circumstances. The police experience background should form an idea bank for the interaction between the Ministry of Children and the Ministry of Family Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Research.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case describing the procedure, treatment procedures, and the relationship with personal data, and to submit a case on the financial aspects of the implementation of the project in all counties during the 3-year training period for the teams and on what the system will cost in a 10-year perspective, relating to the PMT and MST projects.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to submit programmes for the transfer to local PPT offices and schools concerned, expecting these children and young people to benefit from statutory training as well.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e1077	Here the Right has announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e1117	In the course of the debate, two proposals remain to be voted on. It's: proposal No I, by Jan Simonsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on the proposal No. 3, from Kristin Krohn Devold on behalf of the Right The President noted that the proposal by the Right was submitted after 9 p.m. 9 this morning, but unless there are objections from the Chamber, the President will not object to the taking up of the vote of reality. – Such objections have not been raised. It will be open to explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e1131	I would like to call on the SV's big group to vote in favour of proposal No. 3, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e1136	As I said in the debate earlier today, I would urge the Members of the Labour Party to vote in favour of the Right's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e1141	It is then first voted on proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Government asks the Grand Government to present a separate case to the Grand Duchy by October 2000 on the problem of and measures relating to foreign nationals to be expelled/removed, but where this is prevented by the home/receiver country.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e1152	The vote will be taken as an alternative between the vote and the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e1160	The proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to submit the necessary proposals and to take the necessary decisions to: 1st@item: inlistbox A ‘quick paragraph’ is introduced into the Foreign Affairs Act so that asylum applications which are ‘clearly groundless’ are rejected without any right of appeal but with a specific quality assurance procedure. 2nd@item: inlistbox A necessary access or authorisation shall be provided to the foreign authorities to hold specific asylum seekers in receptions with strong restrictions on the freedom of movement or full custody of the recipient until the application is completed. 3rd@item: inlistbox Specific asylum recipients are set up in such a way as to allow a strong restriction or full detention of asylum seekers for whom such restrictions are imposed by the authorities.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e1198	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Jan Simonsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 6 June 2000: ‘The Government is asking the Government to propose the necessary legislative changes to ensure that intentional or deliberate killings of police officers can lead to life imprisonment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e1214	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Jan Simonsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 6 June 2000: «The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to Section 127 of the Criminal Code so that the maximum sentence of the day is raised from 5 years to 10 years in prison when violence against police officers is committed. If violence is serious, a minimum sentence of 4 years in prison and a maximum sentence of 21 years in prison is imposed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e1230	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Jan Simonsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 6 June 2000: ‘The government is asking for proposals to amend Section 326 of the Criminal Code to increase the maximum sentence to prevent or attempt to prevent a police officer from performing his job from 6 months of imprisonment to up to 2 years’ imprisonment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e1246	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 6 June 2000: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider raising the penalty framework in the alcohol law § 10-1 third paragraph to 10 years.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e1260	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Jørn L. Stang, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 6 June 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to take into account that agreements concluded for the transfer of jurisdiction to Norway shall not include jurisdictions which are nationals of Norway when they are also nationals of another country.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e1277	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Kari Økland on behalf of the Christian People's Party sent from the meeting of the Odelsting on 6 June 2000: ‘The Government requests the evaluation of Section 15 of the Landfill Act and its practical effect after 2 years from its entry into force. The results of the evaluation shall be submitted to the Stortinget as its own case.’.» The Progress Party and the Right support the proposal subsidiaryly, and the President assumes that the Centre Party and the Left do the same. – It is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e1295	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Tor Nymo on behalf of the Central Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 6 June 2000: «The Government requests the transitional arrangements for the gradual increase of the fixed fee over a period of 10 years in the case of agreements for the fastening of land to recreational homes concluded on or before 26 May 1983.» Mr Nymo has the floor for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e1303	In the light of the Odelstingen discussion in which the majority of the proposal received the subsidiary support of the Centre Party, a natural consequence would be to draw up the proposal. After conference with Stortinget’s office, it is established that this is not possible, however. The consequence is that I have to ask the Central Party to vote against the proposal, which was formulated on the basis of completely different assumptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e1308	We are voting on the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e1319	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 6 June 2000: ‘The decision asks the Government, on an appropriate occasion, to submit to the Storting an assessment of measures that may lead to increased efforts to identify drivers affected by drugs and other substances that seriously impair driving ability.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e1334	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 3, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, No. 4 and 5, from Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposals Nos. 4 and 5, from the Socialist Left Party, is taken up to voting. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2000 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostFormsCroner572Farm grants to county municipalities60Inhabitant grants/expenditure equalisation are increased by DKK 15 168 643 000 to NOK 15 818 643 000‘650,000’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The ruling asks the Government to look at a switch to the guest patient scheme, including its being linked to the DRG scheme, and to present the matter to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e1398	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2000 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostFormålKroner730The health service of the counties60Injected hospital funding, estimated allocation, is increased by 1,228 000 000 from DKK 10 995 000 000 to NOK 12 223 000 000 62In addition to regional hospitals, increased by 350 000 000 from NOK 1 531 900 000 to NOK 1 881 900 000 »
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e1469	Proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Advancement and the Right, shall be taken up for voting. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government of the 2001 budget to make proposals to increase the share of the intervention-driven funding to at least 60 p.m., and to go directly to the hospitals.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The budget asks the Government from 1 January 2001 to wind up the cryptography system for hospital input-based financing.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13-2.ana.ud727e1662	The Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
