ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e27	The former alternate of the Rogaland County, Bent Höie, has a teke seat as a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e51	On Friday, the Storting received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government will meet for oral Question Time: Minister for Foreign Affairs Thorbjørn Igland State Council Ellen Horn State Council Hanne Harlem These government members are there, and we're ready to start the oral Question Time. Representatives who, in addition to the pre-announcers, would like to ask their main questions will be asked to stand up. – Then we start with the first main questions, from the representative Tor Nymo.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e70	I allow myself to ask a question to the Minister of Justice. Yesterday the Judicial Committee was in Eastfold and visited, among others. The chief of police in Halden and his staff. We got a thorough introduction to police district operations, with special emphasis on border control and crime related to it. The Judicial Committee gave a solid impression that, in close cooperation with the customs office, the police carried out border controls in a very satisfactory manner. It was also documented by surveys of drug and alcohol seizures, trafficking in human beings, etc. However, our surprise was great when the responsible police officer stated that it was not known what would happen instead of the border control that is in place today when the Schengen Agreement enters into force for the autumn. [[The President clubs.]] My question is: What are control measures to be taken by the Minister of Justice/Ministry? And when will the police officers in Halden and elsewhere hear what these control measures are all about?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e79	The President would like to remind you that a question should be within the set speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e82	All Schengen cooperation is based on external border control and the removal of internal border control. When it comes to the exact relationship with Sweden, the change in the removal of internal border controls is not, in particular, different from the cooperation that has been in force between Norway and Sweden since the 1950s. A working group has been set up to assess exactly how to organise internal border controls both in relation to Sweden and in relation to Finland. And it is currently working on making very concrete cooperation agreements between Norway and Sweden and between Norway and Finland. It is an exception in the Schengen Agreement, namely that there is scope for internal border control, for example. in the case of serious crime, and several of the European countries carry out border controls, for example: in the case of human smuggling, and also in the case of some other conditions. So there's nothing wrong with us continuing with border control related to, for example. the fight against trafficking in human beings. Of course, we will complete the work being done, and give Halden police districts, but also all the other border police districts, as quickly as possible and in time for the new regime to be implemented, sufficient information on how this will be done in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e91	I thank you for your answer. But I'm actually a little surprised by the Minister of Justice's answer, because when the Justice Committee was clearly expressed to the police's concern about what is to replace the border control, which is actually to be abolished, it's a signal we're taking seriously. And we're very concerned about what kind of signals go out to, among other things. criminal environments, which see this change of control, with perhaps not as good control, as a great opportunity to smuggle in drugs, people, etc. That's the concern I'm expressing. I also believe that the Norwegian people are very interested as soon as possible in understanding what kind of control they want to establish as a substitute for the border control that the Justice Committee was given a clear impression of has worked well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e100	My answer was that I believe we have sufficient basis to maintain the control we want against serious crime, and that the situation with Sweden is not very different now than it has been. But what the representative Nymo is now communicating about the attitude and knowledge of Halden Police Districts about this, I naturally take with me to follow up that there is, in fact, also knowledge in the police districts about what we collectively believe must be the right way to deal with ourselves in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e105	There will be follow-up questions – Odd Roger Enoksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e108	I have to say I have some doubts about how to interpret what is now being said. After all, the whole intention of the Schengen Agreement is to reduce border controls between Schengen Member States. It also confirmed yesterday's Tollvesenet in Eastfold vis-à-vis the Judicial Committee, as far as I understand. I am then surprised that the Minister of Justice answers that this control can be maintained at the same level as it is today, and that you have to be as sure as you are today that there is no smuggling and that you have the same control mechanisms. The whole point is that it has to be a reduction. My question to the Minister of Justice is: does the Minister of Justice see that this control will be weakened, and is there at all opportunities to maintain control at the current level in the implementation of the Schengen Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e116	I guess I'm actually saying two things. I say that the border control vis-à-vis Sweden and the other Nordic countries is limited today, because we have the special cooperation agreements we have with the Nordic countries, and it has been completely limited since the 1950s. Therefore, the difference is not very great for the Nordic countries under the Schengen Agreement in relation to what has happened in the past. The second thing I am saying is that there are exceptions to Article 2(2) of the Schengen Agreement. 2 allowing for the restoration of internal border controls in relation to national security and to serious crime. Interpreting and practices related to it have been somewhat different in European countries, but there are some European countries such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. For example, France has carried out checks on trafficking in human beings and on some other types of crime. in connection with the football World Cup last summer to prevent football mobs. It shows that we have the opportunity to have a stronger control over certain types of crime and in relation to certain situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e125	Øystein Hedstrom – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e128	As an Eastfold representative, I have followed the border issue both for customs and for the police, and they are doing excellent work in the Halden district as well. And we know that the random checks at the border have been of great importance. We were given increased resources in the early 1990s in connection with the Gulf crisis, and then everything from abandoned hails and Finnish heathers to complete counterfeiting equipment for passports was confiscated. As a result, we got a fingerprint register for this in Norway, which is linked to foreign registers. What the Council of State has now said is at least an indication that she is very concerned that we will continue to have effective control over, in future, particularly international crime and illegal immigration to our country. And I expect that there's a promise from her within a new model to follow this up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e135	It is always difficult to answer very clearly when questions are formulated in a sufficiently subtle way! I think I refer to what I have said earlier, that we are in the process of establishing a cooperation agreement with Sweden and Finland in order to fully clarify how police cooperation is to be carried out in practice under the Schengen Agreement. But I can confirm that I am committed to cutting down on international serious crime and human smuggling.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e142	Björn Hernæs – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e145	The representative Nymo undoubtedly had the Judicial Committee with him when he found that there was an excellent job in Halden Police District. But it was probably an expression of his very selective perceptiveness when he thought that he also had the Justice Committee with him when it came to trying to start a new Schengen debate. When it was also followed up by the representative of Enoxsen, I just think I would like to say that what I heard at the briefing was that the police were calling for clear guidelines before the implementation of the Schengen Agreement on 1 October. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice to confirm that they will. So there was nothing else I realized that the police and customs in Halden were concerned about. And when the Minister of Justice says she wants to take the information that comes, it should preferably be reasonably balanced.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e153	I can confirm that the police districts need clear guidelines before implementing the Schengen Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e158	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e161	I want to ask the State Council Ellen Horn the following questions: Norway spends a lot of money in support of Norwegian film production. It turns out that several of these productions have a rather low audience attraction and thus yield very low profits. Some people even have so little audience that they get taken off after a while. The Council of State considers it appropriate to use as much state cultural money for film production as it appears to have such a narrow audience, rather than to use this money for cultural purposes that benefit large groups, such as the United Kingdom. children and young people, as the Progress Party wishes, inter alia: strengthening voluntary teams and organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e168	Issues related to Norwegian film production have been strongly promoted in the media lately. It has also been pointed out that there has been a low connection to Norwegian films. The government will look closely at the issues of film policy, including the future organisation of Norwegian films. And I see it as a goal to get a greater connection to the Norwegian films. Getting productions that interest the audience must be a goal. I would like to stress that I see it as an important priority for the Government to help produce good Norwegian film.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e177	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I interpret as a positive response that will benefit Norwegian film. In an article in Aftenposten, May 2, filmmaker Edith Carlmar says: «Of course, I made money on all my movies! You can't make movies without making sure they make a profit." Does the Council agree with this statement by Edith Carlmar? The Council of State feels that it should be free for those who receive financial support for film production, or it seems to the Council of State – like the Progress Party – that there should be a combination of economy, quality, etc. shall be in force and shall the audience preferably be able to like the film?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e190	It is not difficult to agree that there must be a combination on the basis of which Norwegian film production is assessed. But I would like to stress that it is not just to be evaluated on the basis of the audience's visit; there are a number of factors that must be taken into account when considering what should be prioritised in Norwegian film. But it's a clear goal to get more movies that reach a broad audience.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e195	There will be follow-up questions – Trond Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e198	The previous government received a report from Ernst & Young on film support in Norway. It has been difficult to interpret the signals from the Workers' Party so far on what this report is about. Cultural policy spokesman Jon Olav Alstad has said, among other things. that this report does not provide a good basis for assessing Norwegian film production. Will the Council of State base this report by Ernst & Young on further efforts to reorganise Norwegian film production support schemes, or will the Council of State start work again?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e205	The report by Ernst & Young will be part of the assessments taken into account in the work on film policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e210	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e213	I have a question for the Minister of Culture. We have now come over in May, and many corps are on the road to practice until May 17. At the same time, we have been told that the music village has a difficult economy; last year, 100 music villages were laid down. We know that the music is a type of the many important layers and organizations. The central government is sending an additional message to the Storting about voluntary teams and organisations that the Storing mainly joined. One of the objectives of the message was to strengthen the economy of voluntary teams and organisations, so that one could spend less time making cakes and lotteries and concentrate more on doing activities in the organisation. What will the Minister of Culture do to keep her pace with the music corps on 17 May and to strengthen voluntary teams and organisations in general?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e222	In the context of the revised national budget, which is due to be submitted on 12 May, the scheme of voluntary action in the field of culture is treated in accordance with the Stortingen's assumptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e227	In Norway, we have over 2,000 nationwide organisations, and there are almost 17 million organizational memberships. It shows that there is an enormous strength and tradition in the voluntary teams and organizations that we can't measure in dollars and dollars. Voluntary teams and organisations have worked for a long time as both social, religious and cultural traditional and value brokers in our society. I am pleased that the Council of State will follow up what has been agreed by the Storting in the revised national budget. There, Stortinget has agreed to a new add-on arrangement, and the majority went in so that the surplus from the gambling funds would be channelled through the organisation's central joints. We know that the sport has got its share of the funds, and the Stortinget has asked the Government to bring funds to the voluntary teams and organisations in the revised national budget. And based on what the Council of State said, it seems like one's going to follow it up. Does the Council of State have any visions for the voluntary teams and organizations?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e236	I would like to stress that the tradition we have in Norway for a rich flora of corps and active amateur environment around the country is all reason to make an effort to maintain. I'm also worried that there are so many corps that have had to give up, and I hope I can contribute to that not being progressed in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e241	There will be follow-up questions – Odd Einar Dørum.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e244	The Storting has asked the Government to make a comprehensive lottery policy. Something is about justice, I definitely shouldn't. But something is about culture, and I want to ask the Council of State the question: can we be sure that the Ministry of Culture, when you look at lotteries and balance the relationship between state games, will also take due account of the lotteries and games of civil society, which now the representative Molvær Grimstad took up, so that they are treated in such a way that in the future they also have a fair chance? I ask this as a fundamental question, because then the Minister of Culture can also clarify his position on these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e252	The President will recall that a follow-up question should be within the main theme of the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e255	I haven't quite got into this before I got here today, but to the extent that I can make it possible for the local work in the cultural sector and the voluntary environment around the country to be maintained, I will do my part to make it possible to continue with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e260	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e263	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. One of the countries that have received Norwegian assistance over many, many years is Zimbabwe, and it was a country to which we had great hopes. But as we have seen recently, there is a very dramatic development in Zimbabwe, with clear violations of human rights, where the opposition has exceptionally poor conditions and is persecuted by the regime, and where violence is under development. And if this is not enough, Zimbabwe is also engaged in war in a neighbouring country. What does the Minister for Foreign Affairs intend to do in this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e272	I'm just as concerned about the situation in Zimbabwe as Jan Petersen is. I'm glad we're in line with that question. We have protested to Zimbabwe twice from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not until 31 March and then on 20 April – a strong protest in which we asked the Government to do what is possible to stop the acts of violence. We have sent a delegation to Zimbabwe – the journeyed on 1 May – to investigate the situation in the country, which will provide the basis for an assessment of what will happen to aid to the country in the future. I would like to say that what we see here raises a very important question, also for Norwegian development aid throughout and for Norwegian foreign policy, namely what was also stated in the Government's statement, that it must be an important task for us to contribute to the fight against corruption and corruption that is a barrier to development in many countries. And that's exactly what we see in Zimbabwe. The question now is how to turn Norway's aid to Zimbabwe into support under the opposition and the work on human rights. But if free elections fail, and fair elections, then the whole question will have to be raised about what we do with the long-term assistance to the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e281	I am pleased that, like me, the Minister of Foreign Affairs is so serious about the situation that he is willing to assess Norwegian assistance. We provide quite a lot of assistance to Zimbabwe and have done so over many years, but I believe that there is now reason to turn our backs on the table and show Zimbabwe that we are serious and that we should say no to further assistance to Zimbabwe. These are the means to release and use in other countries where they want to be more effective than they want in this country. That is why my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: is he also prepared to assess a total interruption of assistance to Zimbabwe?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e286	The answer to that is clearly yes. We are prepared to consider that question, but only after the Zimbabwe delegation has returned. Besides, there's a question of what's wise right now. We do not want to contribute to the strengthening of President Mugabe's position in the domestic opinion of Zimbabwe through actions by the Western and rich countries. But it's clear that the turning point will be the question of choice. There must be free and fair elections in the country. If that doesn't happen, it's clear that this whole question comes up too fully. But until that happens, we must, in our opinion, follow the line that we are now doing, that is to turn the aid towards supporting the opposition and the work on human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e291	There will be follow-up questions - Einar Steensnæs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e294	I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs today confirms that the Ministry has full attention to this situation, and I am also pleased that the Ministry has taken the initiative to send a delegation to Zimbabwe to look into the situation. I assume that the intention of sending the delegation is to provide a basis for action by the Ministry and by the Government, in order to freeze any aid projects which do not affect innocent third parties, but which will react to the authorities and at the same time indicate politically how the Norwegian authorities view this. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if he can confirm that the Ministry is reviewing the various aid projects in order to be able to implement a freeze quickly if one finds that this is necessary. I would also like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether there is contact with foreign authorities, because it is important to react together to the effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e301	It is absolutely right that it is necessary to have contact with other countries to coordinate us with what they do. We have close contact, of course, as always, with the Nordic countries, and also with other countries, such as the United States. United Kingdom, on this question. Once this situation was dramatized, a work was started to see how to turn the aid against supporting the opposition and human rights work in the country. In addition, the delegation’s intention is to assess that issue, but also to assess whether it is possible to send election observers when it comes to elections in the country, under conditions that allow them to observe whether there are free and fair elections, which will be a key issue, we think, in the context of developments in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e311	Siri Frost Sterri – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e315	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs what it really takes for Norway to react here. Zimbabwe is still one of our main co-operation countries; in other words, it can be said that Norway can be morally involved as co-responsible for what is now happening down in Zimbabwe. I don't understand why the Foreign Minister thinks you have to wait until there are elections. What we see is that the date for the implementation of elections is constantly shifting. What reason does the Foreign Minister have for believing that these elections will be conducted democratically and will give legitimacy? We also know from experience from neighbouring areas that there is very low turnout. So, in the Right's view, we should have reacted for the longest time – we also said about last fall – precisely because we see that the situation has still deteriorated, despite the fact that it is claimed that we are trying to distort the aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e322	Firstly, I would like to say that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has been dealing with these issues for a long time. There has been a broad consensus on, and emphasis has been placed on, developments in the country. Secondly, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has twice protested at the démarche, which was handed over on 31 March and 20 April in the country’s capital – a strong protest. As to the question of why you're waiting, it's to put pressure on Mugabe so that there can be free choice. I hope that, here in this House, we agree that a change of power in a country should take place through free elections. We now have the opportunity to put pressure on the authorities in the country to make choices, and to make it possible for international observers to observe whether there are actually free, independent and fair elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e331	Dag Danielsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e334	I must say that I am very surprised by the lack of action and the lack of understanding expressed by the Foreign Minister here. It has been a well-known case that Zimbabwe has for many years waged warfare with more than 10,000 soldiers in its neighbouring country. In my opinion, there should be clear enough reason to stop the assistance. What's happening now is just a further deterioration and a further confirmation of how despotic this regime is. What about freezing your help immediately? Then you should consider a permanent stoppage of the help in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e341	I'm a little surprised that this is coming that way now. There has been a broad consensus within the Foreign Affairs Committee on the position on this issue over a long period of time and it has been followed up by the Foreign Affairs Committee. The question is, what do you want to achieve? Do you want to get help frozen at home, so that you can say it to your home opinion, or do you want to support the opposition and work for human rights in Zimbabwe? And do you want to support the poor population of the country? I believe that the most important thing now is to use the opportunity that Norway has – because we have helped the country for a long time, as many other countries have done, and with which we coordinate our attitude – to put pressure on free choice. I think it's a better foreign policy to support those who work for the same view as us in Zimbabwe. However, if the objective is only domestic policy in Norway, you might consider it in a different way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e346	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e349	In the opinion of the SV, there is no reason to criticise the Government for the way in which Zimbabwe has behaved so far. There is no doubt that the situation in Zimbabwe is very serious. Therefore, it may be necessary for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to be given the opportunity to explain properly what he has now tried to say to many questions. Is it understood that if the Zimbabwean authorities are now postponing the elections again and do not come up with an obligatory date for the holding of the elections and that it is to be held during international observation, will the Norwegian authorities consider withdrawing assistance, possibly considering freezing them, or, where appropriate, assessing other ways of channelling assistance, either through voluntary organisations or through channels other than those managed by the State? It is basically what I see as the most important point, that the authorities of Zimbabwe are now coming up with a commitment date to the international community and allow elections to be conducted ‘free and fair’, as it is called, without undue pressure on the population to support the current government party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e356	The answer is the same as I have said for a long time, including: in the evening post many days ago now, that the point is that we want to get up a date for free and independent elections. If not, we need to assess the whole Norwegian aid situation. But we want to use the position we all have, to push elections forward, and there must be choices that can also be observed by the international community. That is one of the main reasons why we have sent a delegation to the country – to see if it is possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e361	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e364	I have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Today, the Non-Proliferation Treaty Supervisory Conference ends in New York. It is an important political signal that the Minister of Foreign Affairs actually prioritised being present and keeping the Norwegian contribution. The conference was held in a period when negotiations had been quiet for a very long time, in a period when new countries had built up nuclear arsenals. Uncontrolled proliferation of nuclear weapons and nuclear material and other weapons of destruction may be the greatest threat to humanity, especially in terms of spread hazards to countries with totalitarian and unpredictable regimes, as we have just heard, and not least where there are bitter regional conflicts. The non-proliferation agreement is therefore very important. How does the Minister of Foreign Affairs now state its status after the Conference of Supervisors?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e373	I guess it's a little too early to fix the status. But what I can say is that the conference started in a very good way. Many foreign ministers participated, among others: The American and the Russian. It is also worth noting that the five nuclear powers issued a declaration that, among other things, not only to protect the ABM agreement, but in fact also to strengthen it, which is absolutely essential in the matter of nuclear weapons. It's too early to say if you can reach a final result or if there's at all such a result. But anyway, the atmosphere at the conference was good at first. The declaration from the five nuclear powers was important. And then we'll see what can come out of it at the end. But it is absolutely right that the conference is very important when it comes to preventing further proliferation of nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e381	I would like to thank you for your answer. The non-proliferation agreement can almost be said to be the cornerstone of the international security system and disarmament. It actually sets the goal of a nuclear-free world. That's why, as the Foreign Minister says, it's very important with such conferences. You might not get that far, but you can go a little bit further. What I feel is positive about what the Minister for Foreign Affairs says is that the nuclear powers are now also interested in and have said they are willing to call about the ABM agreement. I think that's very important. Otherwise, I just want to ask how the Foreign Minister intends to follow up on the work of disarmament of nuclear weapons, and how we can move forward in a very laborious work, which must include not only the great nuclear powers, but also the new ones, such as India and Pakistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e388	Norway has made a number of proposals at the Conference of Supervisors for which we are working to make an impact. What I think is important now is that you also see the nuclear issue in a regional perspective, that is, that you work out agreements within the different regions that can make the nuclear weapons less attractive to the countries concerned. There is only one area included for this in the Conference of Supervisors, namely the Middle East. We have raised the question of whether South Asia, too, should be an area that comes under the Supervisory Conference, precisely because of India and Pakistan. Otherwise, it is worth noting that the Russian Duma has ratified the START II agreement and that there could be negotiations on a START III agreement. I think that's a very important milestone.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e395	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e398	It starts a big strike today, and it's strange if it's not to be affected in the Storting's spontaneous question hour. But since neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Finance is present, I have the representatives of the Government decide who will answer my question. Wages and salaries are the responsibility of the parties, so there is no doubt. But the result of the vote must also be said to be a strong political message to the Government and the majority of the population that Difference Norway has gone too far and most people do not think that anyone is going out of the community. The Storting and the Government can do something about that. My question is, what will the government do to combat increasing differences and the fact that the 10 pst. The wealthiest over the 1990s has increased its share of the country’s income, and that there is a significant reason for the increase in differences in Norway itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e407	First, I fully agree with the interpretation that Kristin Halvorsen has of what has happened during the first vote. I think this is a protest at the growing differences that have existed in society, especially that a small group at the top has taken on – I want to use that expression – as large income increases as we have seen. That's why it's a challenge for the Storing and the Government, and it's a challenge not least for employers, and we're going to follow up on the Government. I must remind you that the Workers' Party, which now has the government, has had a wide range of proposals for just a fairer distribution that has not been implemented in the Stortinget. In our opinion, we would have had a better situation if we had got through those proposals. We got through something last autumn, but it was after very long negotiations. I'm glad we got something, but we didn't get far enough. In the context of next year's government budget, we will follow this up and come up with concrete measures for a fairer distribution. I would also like to point out that in dealing with the difference message here in the house, we also have the opportunity to bring together a majority of proposals that can both lift at the bottom and can also take something at the top, for which, in my opinion, there is a great need.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e418	The government has recently presented a proposal for a new tax on options, which is a reward scheme used by mainly top executives in Norwegian business and in other countries' business as well. This was imposed on the Government by the majority of the population in the context of the Declaration of Accession. But the government now has the opportunity to challenge the Storting not to introduce a system of taxation that is such that the differences will take new turns – perceive the political message and challenge the majority of population to leave it behind. That is my only question: will the Government propose that the option tax proposal remain in place, so that now no arrangements are put in place to increase the differences? The second is the question of the taxation of capital. One of the major reasons for the development of Difference Norway in the 1990s is that the difference in taxation of labour and capital is large. Will the Government do anything to increase the tax on dividends?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e425	To the last question: I would like to remind you that the Workers' Party has made proposals on share taxation, among other things. to remove the rebates made by shareholders in connection with the taxation of wealth. If it had been done, in our opinion, we would have had a much fairer tax. It has not been possible to get through it – at least not completely – because of what the Workers' Party has been doing. What I can say is that, given that the situation is as it is in the Storting, we will look for new opportunities to get a fairer tax on capital and employee income. On the first question, about the options, there is a proposal from the Government, and it should not be such that it will help to increase the differences, but rather adapt taxation to the new situation, which means that knowledge means so much more in our business life. We have to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e432	Follow-up questions - from Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e435	I would first like to say that I think it is absolutely amazing that the government has not made sure that it is one of those responsible for the payroll, who are meeting today. The country's up in a big conflict. It is about the only topic that concerns the Norwegian people, and then it should be a matter of course that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg cleared the room to come to the Stortinget and answer questions, which could also be communicated to all those who come with in the spontaneous questioning session. That was the purpose of this. I have found that the government is totally passive when the country is in a big strike. That is why I allow myself to ask Grand President Kolle Grondahl to contribute to Jens Stoltenberg as Prime Minister meeting in Stortinget at the end of the meeting to answer questions. I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs now has views on these issues. I will allow myself to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs if he, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, and perhaps as leader of the party, will help Jens Stoltenberg meet in Stortinget to answer questions in a credible way on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e444	I'm glad that Carl I. Hagen was finally asked a question. It is entirely possible to ask me as the Government's No. 2 and also the head of the Workers' Party on these issues. I've answered something from Kristin Halvorsen's side. The government is not totally passive, but the government is dealing with this issue as it is supposed to do, namely not interfere in pay settlements. There has been too much of that, in my opinion, which may have contributed to the situation that we see. We have free negotiations in Norway. It can cause a strike from time to time. The government has said it will not interfere with compulsory pay. We now have to let the parties sort this out. However, it is clear that the Government encourages employers to understand what was going on in the final vote and also to come up with agreed proposals between the parties that can win membership of the strikers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e453	There will be follow-up questions – Kjell Magne Bondevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e457	Since the Foreign Minister has already accepted to answer such questions, I would like to follow up. The strike situation and how to get out of it are, of course, the main responsibility of LO and NHO. We may have opinions as to why it has become a no at the watch vote. I think it has to do with management wages. I think it has to do with the lack of follow-up to the reform of continuing education, where the previous government and the Stortinget settled, but the two parties did not find a solution. But the danger of the situation is that a good economic situation for the country that was built up may eventually be destroyed. It is therefore also the responsibility of the Government and the Storting to pursue a fiscal policy that counteracts this. It is our responsibility to pursue a anti-balancing policy, and there we record with satisfaction that the government sitting behind the previous government proposal in the anti-balancing message, since it has not been withdrawn. But the government itself is, as a representative of the state, a direct party to the public settlement. My question is therefore: how does Jagland now assess the public sector situation and progress and framework for public settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e466	As I said before, I think there have been too many politicians who have tried to get involved in, not to say guys up under, different settlements that are going to come now in ours, and that may have contributed to a difficult situation. I will therefore not give in to any assessment of that situation. Now there's going to be negotiations between the parties, and then we'll see what that leads to. Otherwise, I fully agree with Kjell Magne Bondevik that it is important now to pursue a responsible fiscal policy. We have to cover the unpaid bills that were paid in the past in connection with the revision, so that the expenditure growth is kept under control. And it's important for the anti-dithering policy. We have not withdrawn the anti-sampling message, among other things. because we think there were many good proposals and analyses there, but we will reserve the right to make new proposals in connection with the treatment here in the Stortingen, and in connection with the state budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e473	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e476	I will be allowed to stress from the Right that it is up to the social partners to find solutions to the situation we are in. The government's responsibility is to assess the consequences, not least in terms of life and health. I therefore have a follow-up question to the Minister of Justice. Today, it is clear that the service industry has not received a derogation to continue operating all the violence and social alarms in this country, which are connected to Securitas. The strike management points out that it is then up to the police to continue and follow this up. What is the readiness to do, and what is the Minister of Justice doing in relation to violence and social alarms as the situation has now become?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e483	When the situation is as it is after no derogation has been granted, the police must follow up as best they can to take care of life and health.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e488	Morten Lund - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e491	I have an additional question for No. 2 of the Government. The right to strike needs to be protected and also the responsibility of the parties to resolve these conflicts. But the cause of the discontent, which is a rebellion against the elite, must also be discussed by us. It was the same dissatisfaction that was in 1998, when we got a settlement that was terribly expensive and harmful to everyone. It was a rebellion against increased management wages, among other things. reward for those who had to stop because they did a bad job. Such systems don't like people. The previous government appointed a Value Commission to hold a debate on important issues in society. I believe that there is a need for debate on ethical attitudes in business. Will this government contribute to a debate about the leaders who have triggered this strike, and who do not understand it themselves, so that they have to take care of themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e500	Discussions on this issue are important, but practical action is even more important. The government has said that, among other things, shall promote rules on pension contracts in public enterprises, so that a standard can be set for private individuals as well. I would like to point out that the Prime Minister publicly pushed out of the pension agreement that the Director of Statoil got, which also led to him withdrawing from that agreement. I think it is important to follow-up with concrete mitigation measures also in fiscal policy. The Labour Party has for many years had proposals that have been rejected by the majority of the population. We will come back with new proposals – not necessarily those that do not have a majority, but new ones that may seem daunting. So I fully agree, there is a need for debate. But it is even more important that we, as politicians, have the power to act.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e507	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e510	I have a question for the Minister of Culture. The new government has confirmed that it is working on a VAT reform based on the extension of the VAT base. In connection with the VAT reform, there has been unrest in Culture-Norway, which fears VAT on culture, it will mean cinema tickets, theatre tickets, etc. The previous government made it clear that it did not wish to extend the VAT base by applying VAT to culture. Can the Minister of Culture clarify the position of the new government on this issue? Does the Labour Party share the view of the Left and the other centre parties that VAT should not be introduced into culture?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e517	As far as possible – I agree – VAT must be avoided in the cultural sector, whether it be literature or concert tickets or theatre tickets.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e523	I do, I suppose, see this primarily as a declaration of will by the Minister of Culture more than a clarification on behalf of the Government. Does the answer I have received mean that the Government has not yet clarified its position on this question of VAT on culture and can give an as clear an answer as the previous government could make to all the organizers around the country who were concerned at this point? Such an unanswered response will create new unrest and a new situation in this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e528	These VAT issues will, of course, be dealt with from a broad perspective, but in the cultural field, I think I can make sure that there is no concern about the Government's attitude towards VAT in the cultural field.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e533	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e536	I would like to put a question to the Minister of Justice. I was right to say I was going to ask for something else, but the Minister of Justice's response to security alarms surprised me so much that I decided to follow it up instead. We know that the reason many women around Norway have social alarms is that they are acutely threatened, both by formerly violent husbands and others, and we know that the reason why these security alarms are installed in the security companies is that they have experience that the police are not moving out in time, whether for capacity or otherwise. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice to look specifically at how she can contribute, either to the strike management, the LO or the former Minister of Justice sitting there, to ensure that these women's lives and health are better cared for than what I am afraid of will happen with the answer that the LO has given so far, that the security companies will not get any exceptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e543	I agree with the representative of Krohn Devold that it is important to protect the women, or others for that matter, who are under threat, whether there are threats of violence or other types of threats, and that we have both violence alarms and security alarms just to contribute to that protection. When the country is facing a strike, there is no doubt that it has many consequences, and that we are experiencing problems as a result. The parties have stated that they will try to avoid harming life and health, and I hope they can actually follow it up. It is true that the government has clearly stated that you want to leave this to the parties themselves, but it is clear that it will always be so – without me saying that this matter as such triggers some compulsory payroll, I do not say – that it will be an assessment for the management of a country to follow, so that if life and health are threatened to such an extent that it is necessary to intervene, you do. There has to be a moment in the things you're following continuously, but for the time being I'd rather encourage the police to have an extra attention around this now, precisely because we know that the situation at the moment is that the violent alarms that exist do not have the same receiver in a strike situation that they would otherwise have had.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e553	I would like to start by stressing that of course I have full respect for a strike, and that it will mean that someone suffers from that strike. But it is this criterion of assessing life and health that has upset me, because I do not think, unfortunately, that there are so many women who will experience violent acts, that it will in itself trigger forced pay, but for those who are involved, it can be very serious, and it can be about life. Only in February and March, the Stortinget dealt with two issues relating to violence, violence against women, and the type of action we need to take to counteract this. I've been in contact with many women from all over the country, not least from North Norway, and the distance from the local police and surveyors' station to a woman who knows that she is violently threatened, and who may have moved from South Norway, is so great that the police and surveyor have no opportunity to move out in time. Therefore, contact with the local safety industry is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e558	At least I feel sure that we will get a good deal further if the police are aware of the situation in which the strike is taking place and the Securitas and the security companies are on strike and are unable to accept violent alarms in the way they do otherwise, and that the police must therefore have an additional preparedness for enquiries of the type that would otherwise trigger a violent alarm.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e563	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e566	I want to return to where we started today, namely the visit of the Justice Committee to Eastfold yesterday, which was very successful, where we visited Eidsberg relief prison and Halden police district. At Halden Police District, there's something called the Border Crime Group, and they're involved in revealing over half of things that are borderline, and that are of a serious profit character. In this context, the use of evidence against those who infringe the border rules is discussed. Does the Minister of Justice wish to have the opportunity in Norway to use telephone interception certificates in legal proceedings, as is done in Denmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e571	I have to ask the representative to explain the question a little further, so I am sure that I understand what he is asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e576	In the context of an increase in the criminal framework up to the level provided by the law, it is requested that telephone interception be used as evidence in a case to raise the general penalties to a higher level, because today the average penalty for, among other things, is so high. Human smuggling is one year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e582	The President makes sense that there will be no additional questions when there was such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e585	I am sorry that I still do not fully appreciate the question, but I have to try to answer as well as I can. I see it as the representative dealing with several things at once. One is the question of the use of telephone tapes as evidence in criminal matters. I will then refer to the review that has been carried out by police investigation methods and the use of the methods of further criminal proceedings carried out by the Methodology Committee, a case which was promoted by the Stortinget and dealt with before the New Year. I think it's natural to relate to what was the result of that treatment so far. Then we'll see the experience of that work before we can possibly propose changes. The second thing I realized the representative asked was how we could increase the criminal penalties for border crime. I find it difficult to answer that without having specific information about what kind of criminal offences you are talking about in that case. In any case, it is not always the penal framework that is the problem, but the practice of the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e594	We're going to the next main question, which is today's last.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e597	I have a question for the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Russia is one of our neighbours, and an open border with Finnmark makes it easier to see for both Russians and nordics the great prosperity gap between our countries. Many people live under the minimum of existence in North-West Russia. In particular, women and children are hit when society is in crisis, and many feel that their own country is in a sort of state of emergency. Network credit systems have been established in several places in Russia, with the exception of North-West Russia, with foreign donors. Network credit is known from economist Yunus' women's bank in Bangladesh, and he believes that the right to credit should be considered one of the human rights. The Bank has as its main target group poor women, and by helping mother a poor child will also reach. The central government initiated a women's conference in North West Russia, which was organised in Murmansk in April this year. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs presented here a outline of the network credit summit to be introduced in North-West Russia. How will the Minister for Foreign Affairs follow up this proposal, and when can one imagine such a system established in North-West Russia?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e606	In its Declaration of Accession, the Labour Party Government said that work in relation to Russia, in particular North-West Russia, would have a high priority. What is the case is that the appropriations for this purpose were cut heavily under the previous government and by the bulk of the population, which means that you haven't had so much to play on. We're going to go the opposite way. With regard to the question that was raised here, about network credit, I just have to regret that I can't answer that in concrete terms, but I take it with me as an important suggestion back to the ministry when we are now working on the Russia strategy itself. But what I can say in general terms is that I agree with what was said, that network credit is an important international measure to support new business activities, including: that women are starting, so I think it's an important measure in this part of the world as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e613	I believe that network credit can play an important role in the work of North-West Russia. Here, there may not be much talk about money, but talk about the will to put in place a system. One knows that despite the collapse of the old systems in Russia, the well-functioning system of local sales is still being established in the circumstances. This start-up of small businesses, small businesses, is perhaps the most important thing in helping Russia with their own development work, establishing democracy in a more democratic form than you're used to, and giving people hope for the future. I think it can play an important role. I have two questions. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs maintain the poverty and women perspective of the Network Credit Facility when it is to be established in North-West Russia? Would it be possible to take a Nordic initiative in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e620	I think I can say yes to both of these questions. On the last issue, we have close cooperation with the other countries in the area through Barents cooperation, and it is also becoming an important part of the northern dimension of the EU. So it is clear that we are going to maintain close contact with the other countries also on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e625	The time for the oral question time is now over, and we're going to go to the ordinary question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e630	There will be a number of changes in the configured question list, and the President will show you in the context of the list distributed to the representatives' seats in the room. The President proposed that the proposed changes in today's Question Time be approved. The President sees it as a matter of fact. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Dag Danielsen to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Question 12, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs as the appropriate representative. Questions 22, 23 and 24, from subsequent representatives Tor Nymo, Øyvind Korsberg and Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for the Environment, who has left. Question 29, from the representative of the Minister of Justice, Finn Kristian Marthinsen, falls away when the questioner is not present. Question 32, from the representative Arne Lyngstad to the Minister for the Church, Education and Research, will be drawn up by the representative Elsa Skarbøvik. Question 33, from the representative of Rolf Rekovam to the Minister for the Church, Education and Research, will be drawn up by the representative of Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e650	This question, from the representative Dag Danielsen to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e653	I allow myself to ask the following questions to Minister for Foreign Affairs Thorbjørn Jagland: ‘There has been a wide-ranging discussion in Denmark on the formalities around and the form of Dalai Lama’s visit to the country. This is due to fear of China and Danish business interests in the country. The Dalai Lama continues from Copenhagen to Oslo. Will the Prime Minister ensure that the Dalai Lama is duly received and meets the country's top management in line with the normal procedure for the reception of peace-laureates?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e662	I can answer a clear yes to that. As the representative Danielsen notes, a visit of the Dalai Lama to Norway is planned. He wants to visit Stavanger and Oslo after an invitation from Norwegian non-governmental organisations. There is established practice that all Nobel Prize winners are granted an audience with the King of H.M. and are also given the opportunity to meet the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs if they are available at the time of the visit. As I said, this is a principleal attitude that applies to all Nobel Prize winners, and that changing governments have taken on board. I can therefore confirm, as I said in the introduction, that the Dalai Lama will be received later this month during its Norway stay in line with the normal procedure for Peace Prize winners.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e671	I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Igland, for a very positive response. As I allow myself to be critical on a number of other occasions, I would like to commend the Government for the attitude and position they have taken in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e680	I allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘UN sanctions against Iraq cause catastrophic damage to civil society. The World Organisation's humanitarian aid coordinator has recently resigned his position in protest against what is happening. Will there be an initiative from Norway for international discussions to change/removal a sanctions policy that dramatically affects the weakest in society, especially children and the elderly?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e689	Like John Dale, I am also very concerned about the humanitarian situation in Iraq, which has still been exacerbated since the 1991 Gulf War. As you know, the Security Council took a decision through Resolution No. 1284 to continue the weapons inspections and sanctions. On the other hand, sanctions policies have been adapted to improve the humanitarian situation in Iraq. This has been done through significant changes in oil for the food regime. From the Norwegian point of view, it has always been supported by initiatives to change the oil content of the food regime, so that humanitarian work could become more comprehensive and effective. However, whether these changes will now lead to improvements in the humanitarian situation in Iraq depends a little on the willingness of the Iraqi authorities to cooperate. The Government is committed to the optimal functioning of the recent changes in the provisions on sanctions and to bringing humanitarian supplies to the needy and civilian populations. Norway will maintain close contact with the United Nations on this matter. Finally, I would like to mention that there are discussions in the UN Security Council, and Kofi Annan has addressed this in her report on reforms in the UN with a view to developing more effective instruments of sanctions that can contribute more to protecting the civilian population. This, I think, is a very interesting initiative, i.e. to get sections that are more intelligent and targeted, as the UN Secretary-General has formulated it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e700	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer. However, and with all due respect for the recent changes pointed out by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, sanctions policy is at the heart of the issue. So I expected a slightly different answer. And when I express it this way, it's because on April 4th, when the situation in the Balkans was being discussed, the Great Council clearly expressed a desire to change the sanctions policy in that area. The parallel to Iraq should be obvious here. Against this background, sanctions put in place to get rid of an unhealthy regime, but which clearly involve severe social and humanitarian costs, either depriving or reversing. The supplementary question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs will then be: Should not the Norwegian policy in the Balkans be perceived as a principle view which should also have implications for the Norwegian foreign policy in the case of Iraq?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e707	I'm glad if there's a majority in the Storting to be involved in a discussion about how to make penalties more targeted than what you've seen in many cases. Whether or not there is a parallel with Iraq in the position given about the Balkans, the Storting really has to answer. However, I would like to point out what is also in that position, namely that Norway does not intend to implement unilateral measures in the case of Yugoslavia. That must be done in cooperation with our allies, and I think that is also true in the case of Iraq. We have a past both in our efforts in Bosnia and Kosovo, where we have been in international forces. That was also the case for Iraq, and I do not think it would be wise for Norway to take unilateral action in terms of sanctions, either in relation to Yugoslavia or in relation to Iraq.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e715	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘There are extensive violations of human rights in Zimbabwe. From a number of teams, including opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai, Norway is now encouraged to stop assistance to Zimbabwe. According to the media, this is 100 million. crowns per year. Will the Government mark its departure from the Mugabe regime’s policy by freezing/stopping aid to Zimbabwe?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e724	The government is looking at developments in Zimbabwe with considerable concern, as expressed in the spontaneous Question Time a little ago. We condemn the use of violence. We have taken several initiatives to make Norway’s views known to the authorities in the country. Already on 31 March and again on 20 April, we presented strong diplomatic protests to the authorities. We have made it clear here that Norway regards political violence, including the killing of political opponents, as totally unacceptable. At the same time, we have called on the authorities of Zimbabwe to take immediate action to reintroduce law and order, and to put those behind the killings and unrest in the country in charge of their actions. We expect the Zimbabwean authorities to ensure the security of their citizens and to take steps to put an end to illegal land occupations. We have been working closely with Zimbabwe since the release 20 years ago. We were among the most actively supported during the liberation process. It is clear that we must now lay down the conditions for continued assistance. The conduct of a free and democratic parliamentary elections in Zimbabwe will be such a condition. On the other hand, it is important to prevent us from turning Robert Mugabe into a martyr in the fight for white farmers, thus giving him a map of the situation in the country. As a contribution to the Government's assessment of the future relationship with Zimbabwe, on 1 May we sent a Norwegian delegation to the country consisting of representatives from the research community, humanitarian organisations, human rights organisations, LO, NORAD and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the statement on aid policy 9 May, the Minister for Assistance will come back to the situation in Zimbabwe and the Government’s views. Danielsen refers to what opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai has said. In this context, I can inform you that the LO, which is now with the Norwegian delegation to Zimbabwe, has a close cooperation relationship with Tsvangirai, so that through it we can also get direct assessments on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e748	I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. I will first begin by correcting a misunderstanding the Foreign Minister expressed in the spontaneous question hour. He said there had been a broad dissension about support for Zimbabwe. The progress party has always been against this, and I know that the Right has also had a similar position. So that was a crazy statement. Otherwise, I'm disappointed in the content of this answer. In the opinion of the Progress Party, what has been going on down there, including, for example, Warfare in Congo with more than 10,000 soldiers from Zimbabwe, which has been going on for a long time, contributed to discrediting the work that Norway has done and the attitude that Norway has taken down there. What I had hoped, was that the government immediately, even from its former position with support for Zimbabwe, would freeze the aid in the first place, and then consider whether it would stop it altogether in the longer term. The documentation on this matter has been convincing to those degrees from international sources, etc., so that in our opinion this should have been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e759	I showed in what I said in the spontaneous Question Time, the fact that all the political parties in the Grand Duchy have taken note of the developments in Zimbabwe and have been very concerned, which is what all parties are in the current situation. The question of which there has been some disagreement is: what do we do with the assistance right now? It is the government's view, which I also believe we have the support of at least a majority in the United Kingdom, that we must now use the position Norway has in being a donor country, to influence the authorities in the country to hold free and independent elections and to receive international observers during the elections that have to be held. If this does not happen, it is time to assess the entire aid policy in relation to Zimbabwe. In the meantime, we are trying to turn the aid over to support for the opposition and the work on human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e764	I allow myself to state that it does not help if the road to hell is paved with good intentions. In my opinion, the Government's attitude and lack of action at this point are part of discrediting all kinds of assistance, and it will also include the one that can be said to have positive effects. I am disappointed that the Government discredits Norway's efforts internationally in this way by not choosing a more effective line on this issue. I also think it is a little appropriate way to use taxpayers' money to contribute to warfare in neighboring countries, and that we have helped to support such a regime as the Mugabe regime is.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e769	I want to distance myself from the fact that the Government's attitude discredits all kinds of development assistance. We have close contact with our neighbouring countries and other countries with an interest in this area. We coordinate our efforts to influence democratic elections. But it's interesting to hear that Dag Danielsen, who comes from a party that's always opposed most of what we've been for in Norwegian development aid, is talking about discrediting development aid. I think it has contributed more to discreditation than the line Government is now joining forces with a wide range of other governments in the world to influence the development of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e777	I have a question for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade: «The acquisition law was adopted in 1994 to replace the industrial concession law as a direct consequence of the EEA Agreement. The new law was claimed to be a better tool to ensure good and stable ownership. The opposite seems to have been the case. Much more changes in ownership are subject to treatment, fewer conditions are imposed. The disadvantages of the law are greatest for Norwegian owners. Will there be an evaluation of the acquisition law with a view to getting a better tool to ensure good and stable ownership?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e786	The Act on the acquisition of business entered into force on 1 January 1995. The law replaced the former industrial concession law which triggered the concession obligation for foreign investors to acquire business in Norway. The concession obligation under the Industrial Concession Act was conditional on the acquisition of real estate. The criterion of real estate as a concession obligation condition was not striking for the business purchases we had and need to regulate. The acquisition law gave us a law that better met the control needs of the authorities by triggering the reporting obligation to the authorities by relationships related to the company, such as the size of turnover and the number of employees. The Acquisition Act regulates the purchase of Norwegian companies by both Norwegian and foreign investors. The rules of the EEA Agreement on non-discrimination do not make it lawful to discriminate between Norwegian and foreign companies when buying out businesses in Norway on the basis of their nationality. When dealing with a purchase, the plans of the new buyer for future operations in the company are essential and not whether the new buyer is Norwegian or foreign. I would like to point out that most ownership changes in Norwegian business are positive for the companies, and that it is therefore not necessary for the authorities to impose explicit conditions in addition to those resulting from the law itself. It is therefore in a few cases that there are grounds for carrying out a detailed test which can only be carried out when a purchase is likely to have negative effects. After five years, the Acquisition Act has proved to be a good and appropriate tool for the authorities’ need for control in the case of ownership changes in Norwegian business. In particular, I would like to highlight the preventive effect of the law in relation to preventing buying-in in order to shut down competing companies. However, I think it can be natural to evaluate a law that has been in force for more than five years. The experience gained so far with the law will form the basis for any amendments. If there is a need for legislative changes, these will normally be presented in an odelsting proposition for the Odelsting. I would like to stress that we must constantly have the eye to find the right balance between the authorities' need for control and unnecessary disadvantages for business to be subject to regulatory control in the event of a change of ownership. Among other things, the notification thresholds in the law must be seen in the light of this. Finally, I would like to point out that the acquisition law itself will not be the only tool of the authorities to ensure both good and stable owners in Norwegian companies. The framework conditions for business will be crucial for investors’ willingness to invest in and own Norwegian enterprises. The major challenge is therefore to make Norway an attractive investment country and a country where people feel welcome. Our investment in this field will therefore be important for what ownership we will have in the future in Norwegian companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e795	I thank you for the answer, and I think it is positive that we will receive such an evaluation as I am calling for. Thus, the Industrial Concession Act was removed two weeks after the people said no to the EU, and this was a great victory for the right, which has never understood the point of governing political ownership in business. The Labour Party claimed at that time, and still claims that the acquisition law is a better political tool than the previous law we had. Former Minister of Industry Jens Stoltenberg’s proof of this was that we would receive 200 more changes of ownership every year in the department. We have then received 1 300 such things for treatment. Twelve of them have been examined, and no one has received a rejection. Speakers of the Government have said that we do not have a legal basis to prevent the sale of Hydro Seafood or Dyno abroad. That is when I believe we have too bad a tool, because it is so important that they had not been sold. It is perfectly obvious that the people want it to be intervened. Is it that the law we have has not been good enough, so that we could say no in the two cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e806	I am pleased that the representative is satisfied with the answer to what was the main point of the question, namely whether we will carry out an evaluation and, as I have said, we will do so. At the same time, it is clear that Norway depends in many ways on close interaction both with foreign investors and with people who want to establish themselves in Norway. We can't have a law that adds to discrimination and Norwegian at any price. It's going to be biting yourself completely in the tail, and we're being followed with the argus eyes from the outside. At the same time, the law itself has seemed preventative. It is quite clear that there have been very few cases where there has been a basis for looking after the individual company and going after it in the seams.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e811	I didn't say we should have Norwegian at all costs. But I am absolutely sure that the Norwegian people want us to have a tool to say no in a few cases. I'm afraid we don't have today. People want us to care about who owns the jobs. I think one strike cause, among others. is that values that are built up, that are created and saved through many generations of people, can suddenly end up in one account, despite the fact that one has seen in advance that this could happen. I believe that somehow we must help to ensure that the values left by a moderation policy are of benefit to all, and that the few who show that they are selfish and think more of themselves than they think of the community can be stopped. I believe that international law gives us that opportunity. Does the Council agree that there are owners to whom no can be said?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e822	The answer to that is, of course, yes. After all, the Acquisition Act aims to find out whether potential owners/buyers intend to slaughter the company, whether there is a systematic plan that also takes care of employees, whether they have drawn employees, etc. Because these are procedures that make it possible for us to go through it. So the answer, of course, is yes. At the same time, however, we need to provide other ways of tackling international competition, namely by being good on the skills side, on the education side and on the research side. Even Norway shows a high level of involvement in the purchase of foreign enterprises, cf. at least Norwegian Forest. The enthusiasm of the former government is very strong now for this with Hydro – after they have left the government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e834	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister of Labour and Administration: «I St.meld. No 28 Content and quality of care services, Care 2000, it is said that the Ministry of Labour and Administration carries out an outreach of Norwegian and international public sector competition experience, including care services, and that it will be available early in 2000. [[1999 - 2000]] Will the Council follow up on this issue, and in case when and in what way?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e843	The question from the representative Meltveit Kleppa is a little difficult to deal with, as long as the investigation is not completed by the sample. Before we take a position on the follow-up, we need to see what is concrete about assessments and proposals, and not least the premise for the proposals that may come. However, I have expectations of a broad review of several different means of exposure to competition. The selection assesses: deregulation of public business activities currently regulated as a monopoly of tendering different arrangements in which the money follows the comparison of similar public enterprises by users, where the comparison involves a competition within the public sector to maximise the The different instruments are assessed in relation to: quality efficiency impact on policy governance and the exercise of authority distributional impacts, geographical as well as social impacts on employees The main objective of the work is to systematise national as well as international experience. I hope and believe that the sample study, which should be available in May, will provide a good basis for further assessments of public sector competition exposure. The Government is committed to assessing all available instruments and strategies to achieve the main objective of an optimal public sector. It is important not only to make efficient use of resources but also to maintain the uptake of Community solutions. Competition exposure is the different experience and we need to learn more about the conditions under which this works well and when it does not work well. This is important both for users and for workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e887	I thank you for your answer. I have great understanding that the Council of State cannot advance any proposals which he must consider in greater detail. I'm glad that this is a bad idea that the selection will complete its work, and that the Council of State will go through the details of how it can be followed up. I am also pleased with the fact that the Council of State points out the need to take care of Community solutions. Of course, I think there is a need for a clearance, a clearing and a clarification from the Workers' Party – not least from Kosmo State Council after he joined the Government. He himself was the leader of a Labour Party/LO selection where the conclusion was that postponing competition and privatization was not the solution, but rather the placing on his own by motivation and schooling. Has the government changed its view of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e896	Of course, the sample will complete its work, and it has always been my ambition. There are so many different statements and views that are out there and around these themes. Sometimes it is not possible in the debate to distinguish between privatisation and outsourcing. It only clearly shows that some concepts need to be cleared up, but it is also necessary to look at what is available from experience in other countries just related to these issues. In principle, I haven't changed my mind about which remedies might be the best way to get public sector renewal work on the rails. But here there is nothing black or white, there are intermediate solutions for everything: you have private solutions, you have voluntary solutions, you have public solutions, you have public solutions in combination with voluntary schemes, you have public solutions in combination with private solutions. It's a whole set of tools that can be used individually, and I'm open to evaluating these.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e905	As I pointed out, the Kosmo selection went in so that one, in addition to putting on their own motivation and schooling, would also bet on trust and framework conditions. It is possible to discuss who has been involved in a mix of competition and privatisation issues, which lie in the various aspects. It is a fact that they from the Kosmo selection were used in parallel. Of course, I'm also open to one here having to renew, modernise, public sector, but I think there has been an undue alarm in public, perhaps especially among those who are prepared to participate without being put off by competition, perhaps especially in the care sector, and I hope Kosmo will take it along in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e910	I agree that there has been undue disquiet among public servants. That's why the Workers' Party and the LO had a joint selection so that you could find a platform where you would work on the challenges ahead of us. It's quite obvious that changes in ways of doing things have to happen, because we can't be satisfied with the public offer as it is today. But for this change to have to mean privatisation or outsourcing, I take apart. We have a lot of work to do on our own. But the purpose of this investigation is to get a broader basis of experience before making decisions, and I want to see the investigation and the proposals that emerge, before I start to draw any final conclusions and decide on how to involve the Storing in these processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e918	‘The provisions of the Tax Act do not allow freelance journalists to work under the same conditions as those of other liberal professions. This means that it is impossible for writing journalists to act as self-employed persons. Many freelancers feel that the contracting entities are demanding that they be registered as traders in order for them to receive a job. Will the Council of State contribute to the amendment of the regulations so that writing freelance journalists can engage in business?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e925	In accordance with the Tax Act of the Tax Directorate, § 12-2-2, remuneration to journalists is treated in the same way as usual employee income. This happens even if there is no employment, so that the activity carried out has to be considered as an industrial activity. The rules governing this were introduced in 1973. There were particular practical reasons for the introduction of these rules. It also appears that the actual conditions at this time have been decisive for this solution. At the time, it was not considered typical to operate freelance journalism to such an extent that it could be considered as an industrial activity. However, the situation has changed over time. It is therefore time to assess whether there is a basis for maintaining this regulation or whether non-employed journalists should also be considered as traders after a concrete assessment of their activities. I would like to ask the Tax Directorate to take a closer look at this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e934	I thank you for a positive answer. It is true that when this regulation was introduced, it was not practice to run journalism in this way as a large number now do, and that therefore time has come to go through the regulation in the light of today’s situation. My question is whether the Council of State can now promise that a certain pressure will be put on to get this review so that you can get feedback at least early in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e941	In general, I believe that matters should be dealt with fairly quickly, and I will seek to contribute to this too, but I do not have a full overview of the investigative capacity currently in the Tax Directorate, and will therefore not promise a specific time. But I would like to contribute to the speed with which we are progressing as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e949	‘Statistics from the Main Trade and Service Industry Organisation and the Credit Fund show a sharp increase in the trade leakage to Sweden which in the first quarter of 2000 exceeds the figures from the 1999 record year. Low charges on baits such as spirits, wine, cigarettes, rolling tobacco, fuel and groceries contribute greatly to the cross-border movement of the Nordics. What will the Council of State do to reduce border trade leakage?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e956	The list of exchange rates suggests that border trade with Sweden has increased in the last six years. However, there is considerable uncertainty about these statistics and they are available on an ongoing basis. currently no adequate statistics on the level and development of border trade. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry and Trade finance a study on border trade in 2000. The survey is based on interviews and registration among cross-border households, and the results will be available in the new year 2001. Due to more liberal import quotas, Sweden may reduce taxes on alcoholic beverages. In addition, high food prices and taxes on tobacco, chocolate and mineral water are important for border trade, as the questioner also mentioned. With regard to the level of Norwegian excise duties on important border products such as alcohol and tobacco, the Government considers that it may be reasonable to assess the level of charges in the context of the planned VAT reform. The reform of VAT may generate more revenue, which may provide some relief in other areas. Thus, the revenue from the extension of VAT may be, for example: is used to reduce charges on typical border products. The government will give a mention of the alcohol tax in the revised national budget in spring and will come back with concrete proposals in the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e965	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was really concise enough. This will be considered, and the concrete proposals will be linked to the State budget for next year. After all, the Labour Party leader, Thorbjørn Jagland, almost two years ago, gave information at a County Annual Meeting in Halden that a working group was to be set up. It has worked, and fiscal spokesman Erik Dalheim has stated on a number of occasions that the fees should be reduced. But we haven't come any further. Although there is some disagreement about the extent of this border-trade leakage, we all have to admit that it has a significant extent and creates problems for Norwegian business in many border counties. I expect, then, that when the proposals from the Workers' Party come, there will be tax relief proposals as real monks.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e974	I agree that border trade is not insignificant. I agree that it is important to take action to ensure activity on the Norwegian side of the border regions. So we're going to come back with proposals in the budget for the autumn. When we can't do that in the revised budget that's about to happen in a short time, it has a very good connection with the fact that it's been a short time since the government change, so we need to prepare the matter well enough. It is also in what I say that the proposals will have an impact on border trade, they must have a certain amount. I cannot, for natural reasons, come up with the specific proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e984	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: ‘Postgiro and later the Postbank have been responsible for administering the payment of taxes and employers’ contributions. When the Postbank is no longer an independent bank, this has to be changed. Will the Council of State take the initiative to allow local and regional banks to compete for such a task?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e993	Taxes, social security contributions and employers' contributions, which totaled NOK 275 billion in 1999, are charged and accounted for by municipal employees. Social security contributions, employers' contributions and taxes payable by dependants belong to the country, while other taxes are to be distributed between the country, counties and municipalities. When this scheme was established in 1957, decisive emphasis was placed on the country’s use of solutions that provided maximum controllability and certainty for the proper collection and accounting of the taxes and charges charged to the tax collectors. For payment services, these reasons led to the election of Postgiro as the accounting officer for all the tax collectors. The Tax Payments Act previously specified that Postgiro should be used as the accountant for the tax collectors. The law has now been amended so that the Ministry of Finance decides which banks can be used. The accountancy service for the tax collectors is such that I think it is necessary to call for the service, and the department is preparing for it. The Postbank continues to be the account holder until a new supplier has been selected after the call. In the ongoing work on the call for tenders, I think it is necessary to make requirements that provide the best possible assurance for, among other things. appropriate collection and accounting. I cannot now say what demands will be made, but I am aware of the fact that as much as possible will be given the opportunity to compete for the assignment. This consideration is part of the assessments carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1002	I thank you for an answer that I think is positive. Let me stress that the Central Party shares its views with the Minister of Finance when it comes to setting requirements that provide the best possible security for, among other things. proper collection and accounting. This is about large amounts. In fact, it may also be about using existing knowledge and competences in the regions and locally, and it may be about developing new competences. One could, for example: walk so far that each municipality itself was given the opportunity to place the required funds where it was most appropriate, provided that the requirements to be imposed are met. I would like to urge the Minister of Finance to evaluate this very carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1009	I will take the representative's assessments with me. Of course, we have not taken a position on how the tender will be organised. What will be crucial is that you have a security in relation to the state's resources and a reassuring way to do so, and that you have the necessary skills to do so. There may be many ways to organise tenders and the provision of these services. I shall include in that assessment the views expressed by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1016	I am pleased that the Minister of Finance here will make a thorough assessment. I would like to ask myself the following: What time perspective does the Minister of Finance have on this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1021	I must admit to the representative that I need a more thorough review of these questions in order to clarify when we can submit the tender. That is why I cannot give an adequate answer to this today. So the preparations for such a tender are under way. But as I said, at an exact time, I am not able to give the representative on a standing foot.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1029	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘In a press release issued on 14 April 2000 by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Minister of Local Government announced an increase in the grant to the Swedish National Scoring Fund and the possibility for municipalities to apply for grants from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. The snowscraper in Kvänangen on 26 April 2000 under the auspices of the Civil Defence Circle of Troms documented the need for increased appropriations. Preliminary figures from NHO in Troms show losses of up to 1.5 million. for individual enterprises. How will the Government compensate for this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1038	The budget of the Natural Damage Fund will be strengthened in order to meet applications for state funding of security measures. This is about approx. One hundred million. kr over a five-year period. Municipalities with exceptionally high costs due to the large amount of snow in North Norway, e.g. for snow ploughing, it will also be able to apply for additional means of discretion. Applications shall be made through the counties of Troms and Finnmark. In the case of aid to individual enterprises that have suffered significant losses, this is unlikely to be covered within the framework of the Natural Damage Fund. According to Section 1 of the Natural Damage Act, the State's Natural Damage Fund has inter alia: as a task of compensating for natural damage in cases where there is no right to insure against the damage under a general insurance scheme. There are also no other government grant schemes that will cover this type of loss.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1047	I thank you for your answer. In a part of the country where we are going to develop fish farming as the industry of the future, with high incomes to the entire Norwegian community, it is absolutely necessary for the companies to be sure that what they produce can also be delivered. We've had extreme weather conditions. Because of the enormous amount of snow we have had, roads have been closed, and businesses have not been able to deliver their goods. In addition to the direct losses suffered by the companies, they are struggling with a decline in road, maintenance and race protection appropriations. Will the Government consider making arrangements for these companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1054	I have no problem understanding the major challenges even some companies in North Norway have had this winter, with as extreme snow and such extreme weather as it has been. I also understand, of course, that for some companies it has been problematic to have goods delivered in time just because of this. My problem is that the department, I know, has no funds to give directly to the companies, and the Natural Damage Fund is equipped to help the municipalities with something that is very acute in many municipalities, namely to secure against snow slides. And there we went in with a significant gain, that is, 100 million. kr over a five-year period. We did that in a very short time. We have also said, as I said, that we should cover many of the extraordinary costs of the great snowfall and what has been, among other things. in the case of snow ploughing. It will probably also sum up to a significant amount gradually, so that unfortunately we do not have the opportunity to compensate the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1064	I will be asked a question to the Minister of Health: ‘The size has decided to extend mammography screening to a national offer to save as much women as possible. In order to reach as many women as possible, many counties want to bet on mammography buses as well as stationary hospital units. The Ministry instructs the counties to have stationary units despite the fact that they alone are more expensive and can produce worse results. Will the Council of State immediately ensure that counties who so wish are allowed to use mammography buses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1073	It's a pleasure to see that we're on the right track to achieve the goal of nationwide mammography screening. There are now only three counties that have not started or have been given the means to complete plans to start mammography screening. Before the end of the cancer plan period, i.e. by 2004, all the counties of the country shall have established a screening offer. The attendance rate is high, about 80 for the states that are running the screening, and the results are not waiting. Already through the trial project, it was suggested that a reduction in breast cancer mortality of 30 pst could be achieved. The preliminary results of other counties show that the results of country-wide screening will be at least as good. The evaluation of the test project showed that the good results were due not least to an organisational model that contributed both to a good attendance and to the involvement of qualified professionals. It is reasonable to assume that a good attendance depends on the short journey for women being called for screening. The use of a bus will shorten the journey in many parts of the country. Therefore, mammography screening is expanded with the combination of mobile and stationary devices. Thus, the number of mammography buses operating State health studies has recently increased from three to four. Large-distance counties are priority areas for the disposal of these buses. However, experience so far does not justify claiming that the use of buses is clearly better than a fixed station. Among other things, Rogaland, which uses only a fixed station, had an attendance rate of 88.6, during the trial project, while the result for Akershus, who used only a bus, was 79.4 pst. There are also some things that can speak for the benefit of stationary units, such as: possibilities for using private X-ray institutes and consideration for the follow-up of women in need of further studies. Storing representative Höegh argues in his question that stationary units are more expensive in use than buses. I would like to stress that comparisons of costs in this field may be complicated. For example, the figures for the expenditure of the counties for the screening show: that the two counties currently using buses have clearly the highest cost of mammography screening. There is reason to believe that the use of a bus entails additional costs, which will eventually have to be borne by the county authorities themselves. I would like to make it clear that this is only taken into account for the direct costs of using a mammography bus. The choice of solutions must, on a case-by-case basis, be based on good use of resources and professional quality care. The models used to develop mammography screening have been developed in cooperation between the department and the individual counties. It is therefore misleading to claim that the department imposes on the counties fixed stations. For Uppland and Sogn and Fjordane, the department's offer of bus use has been rejected by the counties themselves. In the case of Akershus, the county itself has wanted to replace the use of buses with the establishment of stationary units, and has even presented two alternative models completely without a bus. However, the primary wish of the county council is still a limited use of buses in addition to stationary units, and I will seek to find a solution that will take care of this in the northern parts of the county. The attendance rate and the results of the screening are continuously recorded and evaluated. Of course, if it turns out that some of the counties would have different results, I will ensure that the cause is identified and the necessary measures are put in place to change the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1096	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, which I saw as much more moderate and nuanced than what you might have had the impression of what has emerged in this matter so far; the most important thing must be that we achieve the best possible result, and that it is actually more important than finding out what you can save 50 cents on. When the Council of State – as far as I can see – says that the cost of a bus can be more expensive, at least for the county municipalities, who then probably have to bear these expenses even after a while, I hope that he can confirm that the primary thing here is to offer mammography screening to all the women of the country in the current age group who also have a local belief that the most likely women are present, and that the state is then willing to contribute to the ability of the states to do so, including financially.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1103	I agree with the representative of Høegh that the most important thing here is to ensure that the goal is met, that there should be a good offer of mammography screening for everyone in all the counties of the country. It is also very important that we continue the good cooperation that is established and upon which we are completely dependent, between the department and the individual counties in the further development of this offer. It also requires us to discuss with the county council on a case-by-case basis what is the most appropriate combination of stationary and mobile units. In this context, we must also take into account the costs involved in individual solutions and work together to find the best possible solutions in this area as well. the crowns that are inserted into the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1108	So far, the impression is that the department has had a desire to get one model after the end of the trial project. I hope that the Council of State, after what he has now said, can confirm that it is not a general desire to have one model, but to look at and respect the inequalities that exist in the country, because the overall goal is to prevent more women from developing breast cancer. When it comes to spending, I have to say that it seems a little unclear to me what the basis would be for claiming that the bus is more expensive. The important thing is the professional here, and if you don't have equipment and you can have people on the bus who can be sure of the quality of the research you're doing, you have to bring the insecure investigations into one of the stationary units, whether it's in the county or in another state. I also hope that the Council of State can confirm that this is part of the programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1118	I can reassure you that it is not right, as it might have been, that the ministry wants to push one particular model down over the individual counties in this area. In this field, too, there is an appropriate way of cooperating with county municipalities. To the extent that there is a single model, there will be a model with a combination of both stationary and mobile units. In terms of costs, I also do not have a full overview of why costs are as different as they may appear for individual municipalities. I just pointed out that in terms of direct costs, it is a fact that the states that have based themselves solely on buses, so far have had higher costs for it than what has been averaged otherwise, but these are issues that we are going to go into in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1128	I have a question for the Minister of Social Affairs: ‘A general practitioner in an Eastern country who has had 40 drug users under medically assisted rehabilitation has now been deprived of the right to prescribe A and B preparations. A specialist in psychiatry who has used Subutex in a rehabilitation project has been instructed by the Health Inspectorate to terminate the treatment. Who is now taking responsibility for the patients in question who are now losing their vital treatment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1137	It is the healthcare of each municipality that is responsible for providing healthcare to these patients. I can inform you that the county council member of the current Eastern State representative, Alvheim, refers to, has implemented measures to facilitate the situation for those patients who lose their prescription. For example, the county team has have been in contact with the local authorities in the most relevant municipalities and have assured themselves that they are aware of the situation that has arisen. All of these have informed the county doctor that they have dealt with the doctors in their own municipality, and have encouraged them to accept patients who have lost a former prescriber. It is the individual doctor who now takes over these patients, who on a case-by-case basis has to assess what is considered appropriate in terms of prescription. As regards that specialist in psychiatry who has used Subutex for the purpose of rehabilitation, the Health Authority has sought the opinion of the County Medical practitioner in that county. This doctor has not lost the right to prescribe, but has explained that new patients will not be included in the project. In cooperation with the county doctor, the patients remaining in the project have been reviewed. These patients do not lose their treatment offer, but care has been taken to ensure that there will be a proper escalation in each individual case. Some of the patients of the two medical representatives named Alvheim are applied for medically assisted treatment in projects approved by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. It is important that drug addicts under medically assisted rehabilitation are guaranteed the best possible offer, with active psychosocial follow-up and control. Experience shows that cooperation between healthcare and social services is very important for the success of such rehabilitation. Unfortunately, when follow-up fails, there are several examples of prescribed medicines being used with other drugs, with the risk of worsening health status and, in the worst case, of overdose deaths. We also know that legally prescribed medicinal products are marketed on the illegal market. Medicinal products for drug addicts for rehabilitation should therefore only be provided within a professionally sound framework that can allow each individual to be fully rehabilitated or, at least, improved in quality of life. The interim guidelines for methadone-assisted rehabilitation are under review and will include, inter alia: open to the use of also adequate medicinal products other than methadone and Subutex in treatment facilities for addicts. Regulation of 27 April 1998 No. 455 on the requisition and supply of pharmacy medicinal products is reviewed with a view to tightening up bad prescribing practices. It is a guide to how to take care of patients who lose access to prescribed addictive medicinal products due to any change in prescription. The implementation of these cases is currently under way. In addition, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has launched a summary of the main experiences of methadone-assisted rehabilitation in Norway. In view of, inter alia: I will assess whether the organisation of the offer is the most appropriate and whether changes are necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1150	I thank the Minister for the answer. I have recently been in contact with a number of users who have lost their treating doctor in one of these counties mentioned, and so far none of them have been offered any help from other doctors in this county. Two of these 40 patients that this doctor had are already located in the cemetery, and I'm afraid that there will be the consequences for more people if nothing is now inserted immediately. It's incomprehensible to me that the county doctor in this county can deprive these people of the help they've received, without putting anything else instead. And I must say honestly and sincerely, dear social minister, that I am quite frustrated, I am quite specific, and my question is, what can we do together to save the lives of as many of these young people as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1161	I understand the desperation of the representative Alvheim. It's a very difficult situation. With regard to the doctor who has lost the right to prescribe, the county and health authorities that are the bodies that society has set up to look at good practice, and I will not interfere with that. As for the treatment of those who live in this county, and who have now lost their doctor, I will take that matter up again, because I fully agree with the representative Alvheim that we have to try to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1170	I am very pleased with the involvement of the Minister of Social Affairs in this matter, which is really sad and disturbing. The last thing I heard was that some of these patients had now been in Copenhagen and were prescribed drugs instead. I have one last follow-up question on the basis of the following information that I have now received: the municipalities of Bamble, Porsgrund and Skien have now established a joint offer with Subutex which they are going to launch quite quickly, as soon as municipal decisions are available in the last two municipalities, namely Porsgrund and Skien. Bamble has made his decision. Can we assume that the telemark county board does not pierce the wheels of this project that these three municipalities are now planning to launch?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1177	It is difficult to say yes or no to a project you have not heard of before, but it is clear that I have a great wish that we should receive treatment for as many drug users as possible, so that as many as possible have the chance to rehabilitate their lives and get the best possible and most possible years of life, because it is a group that has not had it too well at all. We find a mortality in this group that doesn't look like anything else in the same age group. So if the project has the quality that we think is necessary to treat opiate addicts, I cannot believe that it should not be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1185	This question, from the representative John I. Alvheim to the Minister for Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1188	This question is then addressed to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: «According to Section 21 of the Working Environment Act, accidents at work are to be reported to the Labour Inspectorate. After information from the affected person, such accidents are still occurring in hospitals that are not reported. According to the Asker Labour Inspectorate, a demented patient in a nursing home has been ingested to care for 130 times in less than one year without it being reported. Will the Council of State ensure that the procedures are reviewed so that workers injured by patients receive the follow-up they require?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1197	The requirements of Section 21 of the Working Environment Act on warnings to the Labour Inspectorate apply to accidents at work which are so serious that they have caused death or serious damage. The requirements are addressed to the employer. Therefore, if these injuries at the hospital in Asker were of such a serious nature, they should have been reported to the Labour Inspectorate. In addition, the employer has an obligation under Section 20 of the Act to register any personal injury or illness that occurs during the performance of a job. As part of the internal control system of the establishment, this register shall be available to the Labour Inspectorate, the Protection Ombudsman, the Safety and Health at Work and the Occupational Health Service. I am aware that violence in the workplace is a major problem, and that the care sector is a particularly vulnerable industry in this way. However, it is the experience of the health and safety authorities that the general public sector, and perhaps the care sector in particular, have an active attitude to reporting occupational accidents to the Labour Inspectorate. The occupational injury statistics of the Labour Inspectorate show that a relatively high number of serious occupational injuries from the health and social sector are reported. In 1998, it was reported about 5000 damage to this sector. The reporting to the Labour Inspectorate on accidents at work primarily contributes to the compilation of the statistics on occupational injuries and illnesses of the establishment. This is a very important instrument and a basis for the establishment's prioritisation of risk-based supervision and the choice of specific bet industries. I would like to mention that several times in recent years the Labour Inspectorate has directed such a specific effort towards the care sector. However, the employer is also obliged to report occupational injuries to the social security office in order to ensure that the worker is granted the rights that he is entitled to as a professional injury under the Swedish Social Security Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1206	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I don't think there's so much wrong with the legislation, but it's the follow-up that fails in this context as well. Of course, the employer is obliged to keep records of all injuries that occur during the performance of the work. Working in a nursing home, especially in relation to demented patients, may result in a risk of physical injury of a very serious nature. It is therefore important that care professionals at these institutions pay particular attention to this particular issue. Will the Council of State ensure that the procedures of hospitals for reporting such damage are reviewed? And will the Council of State further ensure that the municipalities that own and operate the hospitals become aware of this as strongly as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1215	I agree with Mr Alvheim that it is important that the legislation we have is followed up. And if there are occupational injuries, as I said, it should be reported according to the legislation. If necessary, those who are injured by a profession also have rights under the law. I promise the representative Alvheim that I will take with me the signals that have come through this question, and that I will discuss the matter with my colleague in the government, the social minister, to see if there is anything we can do to be even more sure that this is being followed up properly. But let me underline, as I did in my main response, that in the care sector, from the perspective we have per. Today, it is generally good to report occupational injuries and other events throughout the country, so that it is one of the sectors that may be most active in this area. But I want to bring along the signals that the representative Alvheim came with. I want to talk to the Social Minister about it, and then we'll see if there's a need to do even more to ensure that those who are exposed to this are properly cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1228	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Kongswinger District has many day commuters to Oslo who want to use NSB. Unfortunately, the NSB’s offer is marked by different prices for the use of bus or train, and the flexibility between the choice of train or bus must be paid at a higher ticket price. The commuters want the same price for a train/bus and the option to choose an alternative train or bus when buying a ticket without having to charge extra. Does the Council of State see this possibility at the best of commuters?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1237	As the representative of Bredvold clearly knows, there is an offer for a monthly ticket that gives the requested freedom of choice between train and bus. Train passengers who want this flexibility pay an additional NOK 100 on the monthly ticket, which is therefore also valid for buses on the route and the city bus in Kongsvinger. The NSB considers this to be a good offer and that this flexibility has added value to the travellers for whom there is a willingness to pay. There is a higher price for the train than on a bus on the Oslo-Kongswinger route. The commuters want the same price for trains and buses, which means that ticket prices on trains will have to be reduced. The consequences of any tariff reduction in order to obtain the same ticket price on trains and buses will require increased government budget appropriations for the purchase of passenger transport services to compensate for NSB’s loss of revenue. I do not want to propose such a priority within the transport budget now. In this context, I believe that the NSB has established a scheme for travellers in the Kongsvinger district who should be able to satisfy the commuter's desire to alternate between trains and buses.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1246	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The councils are pleased with the offers of commuters and other travelers in the Kongsvinger district. That this offer is to live with is probably right, but the goal for us politicians in this case must be to make the most of the collective offer. For some travelers it is the train, while for others it is the bus, depending on where you live along the travel route. Does not the Council of State think that it should cost as little to travel with one as the other transport service from to A to B, regardless of whether there is a railway station nearby?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1255	I fully agree with the representative, Bredvold, that it is a goal to get as much as possible to travel collectively on this route as well as on other routes, and the fact that here one has managed to make a combination solution, at a slightly higher price, gives such an opportunity. I did not express my satisfaction with the commuting situation. On the other hand, I said that I felt that there was an acceptable offer here for the commuters. I understand that in some contexts you can react differently, but it is probably a situation that in itself relatively many people have to live with in relation to which offers are closest to their home. I repeat, if we're going to do something about this, that means we have to make larger statements about the government budget for the purchase of services. As mentioned, I am not prepared to do this now, but of course we will come back to this issue in future negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1262	I thank the Council of State for the answer. So to clarify the freedom of choice when buying a ticket – to choose between buses or trains as appropriate each day. I believe that such flexibility, but without costing anything extra, will lead to more people being able to use the collective offer. Do the councils share these thoughts?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1269	I am sure that price is determining how attractive the collective offer is, as well as flexibility and capacity are. It's just to find this balance that's important for us to get people to use collective means of transport. And as I said in my supplementary reply, we want this with us in the future negotiations, but immediately I see no possibility of correcting this inequality between train and bus.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1277	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The Railway Authority of the Member States decided on 14 March 2000 to immediately stop the traffic of Swedish panorama vehicles on Ofotbanen. NSB BA has required the repeal of the Decision in breach of international legislation. Traffic is now under way while the code is being interpreted. If the decision of the State Railway Authority had been taken, the consequences would include, inter alia, that most of the freight in and out of Norway would have to end. Will the Council of State ensure that the Railway Authority is aware of the legislation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1286	The first paragraph of Section 5 of the Railway Act states that rolling stock must be approved by the Ministry before being put into service on the road, unless otherwise provided for by international agreements or regulations laid down by the Ministry. Regulation of 10 July 1997 on the authorisation of railway undertakings authorises the approval of the material delegated by the Ministry of the State Railway Authority. In the specific case referred to by the representative Stenzach, there has been a lack of clarity as to how the international legislation should be understood and handled in relation to the national legislation in this area. In any case, it is entrusted to the State Railway Authority as a competent authority to verify the existence of evidence of acceptance of the material, including in accordance with international legislation. The supervision had not received the necessary evidence that the panorama wagons at Ofotbanen had been approved under the international regulations before the material was put into service. However, the supervision was given in connection with the start of traffic, a letter from the NSB, which demonstrated that the NSB had carried out the necessary risk and safety assessments of the material. On this basis, the train could start operating on the route. As regards the claim that the decision of the State Railway Authority, inter alia: As a consequence, most of the freight in and out of Norway had to stop, I would like to make it clear that the Railway Agency has taken decisions on a limited case, i.e.: on the driving of panoramic wagons on the Ofot track. This applies to a type of vehicle which has not previously been used in Norway. This case therefore has no consequences for freight traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1302	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I hope that the Council of State will also help to open up greater competition on the rail network, for which the legislation now provides opportunities. Will the Council of State facilitate access for railway operators to the railway system’s rail system?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1309	With regard to whether to allow rail competition, there is a question that is to be assessed in the Ministry and to which the Government will come back in connection with the submission of the national transport plan. But I will probably already be able to give signals that at least on the passenger traffic side there will be no great embellishment. On the other hand, with regard to the freight transport sector, we will assess how different forms of competition can have a positive effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1314	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I appreciate the fact that it is now considered to be an embellishment for getting other actors on the road, both in terms of freight and passenger transport. And even though you're a little bit more reserved lately, at least you're on the right track. When it comes to the first answer, it's very good. But will the Council of State try to achieve an embellishment between the Norwegian and foreign regulations in terms of trains as a whole, so that there are more international rules in this field instead of each country having its own special legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1321	A comprehensive international legislation is already in place to ensure the possibility of cross-border use of material between the railway undertakings of the various countries. With regard to the ambiguity of the interpretation of the rules, it is primarily linked to the fact that we have now established the state railway company, and that the international rules must be seen here in relation to the structure we now have. Finally, let me add that no matter how we organise authorisation schemes here, it will be the safety of travellers and those who are otherwise exposed to railway traffic, which will be the primary concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1333	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘20. On December 1999, the Stortinget decided to exempt incubators, call-out vehicles and disabled persons with a PRM parking certificate from paying a fee for the use of heavy-duty tyres. This simple regulatory change will not be finalised in the Ministry of Transport until May 2000, 5 months after, and then sent out for consultation for 6 weeks. Does the Council of State consider the use of resources to be appropriate for a full seven-month period for such a simple regulatory change?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1342	As a result of the Storting’s request decision of 20 December 1999, the Ministry of Transport has started to amend the regulations in accordance with the wishes of Storting. However, all legislative and regulatory amendments are subject to procedural requirements under both the Administrative Act and the Investigation Instructions. These requirements, such as the examination of the consequences, consultation and publication of the changes, also provide clear lower restrictions on time use. Therefore, it was early clear that a derogation could not be established for the winter season 1999/2000. In the big debate on 20 December 1999, the former Council of State, Færvoll Stortinget, also pointed out that the exemption could only be applied from the next winter season. The central thing for me has therefore been to put in place an exemption before the next winter season comes. I can therefore not see that there is criticism of the use of resources in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1351	I thank you for your answer. I am fully aware that there are demands for treatment here, but I think this is starting to take a long legal period. The Council of State of Færvoll was also concerned that, in the case of persons with reduced mobility, the exemption could possibly be arranged this winter. That hasn't worked out. In the newspapers it has been noted that since 1980 the number of employees in the public sector here in Norway has increased by 50 pst., while in Sweden it has actually been possible to reduce the number of employees by 7 pst. Is it the case that the consequences of several employees are that it takes longer to carry out proceedings? Is it, in other words, put in a system that paper is sent around for several months to obtain paperwork in public? And does the Council of State have any forward-looking ideas about how he will reduce this bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1358	In the case itself, it was found relatively quickly that it was almost impossible to distinguish between PRM and other groups for which the Storting decided that an exemption should be granted. In relation to the relationship between the number of public servants and the procedure, I would say that the growth in the number of public servants has been primarily in the service sectors, not least in the health and care sectors, and not in the central administration. And I would also like to say it in that way that not least has the Stortinget, but also this government was concerned that we should have a responsible treatment in regulatory and legal matters. Of course, it must be combined with efficient resource use, and that is the challenge for the Government, which we of course constantly address. But I think it is unreasonable to use the relationship between the number of public employees and the length of proceedings in regulatory matters in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1368	I must be allowed to ask another question to the Minister for Transport: ‘The Gjøvik track is only 12 km long, but the short distance is administratively below both NSB Proximity and NSB Midway. Does the Council of State consider this to be an efficient and forward-looking operation of such a short route?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1377	The NSB BA is organised as a separate company and the management and management of the company is responsible for facilitating the most appropriate and rational operation of trains. In this context, it is also necessary for the NSB to have the freedom to assess and develop forward-looking internal forms of organisation capable of meeting market requirements. The NSB is continuously developing the company in line with the demand of the travellers. An important tool in this work has been for the NSB to develop new brands that provide customers with a modern offering of good quality. This is also an adaptation to the substantial investment in new material that will be put into service by 2002. The NSB Short Range shall mainly cover trips of up to 45 minutes around the major cities, while the NSB Intermediate Distance adapts the offer to customers on distances from 45 minutes to three hours. These customer groups have clearly different needs in relation to such matters as: travel speed, comfort, frequency and station facilities. The NSB continuously assesses which organisation is most appropriate in relation to market developments and the desire for the most efficient operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1384	I thank you for your answer. I am aware that the NSB has been given a good deal of freedom to decide different things, and that they are now betting on new trainsets and under new brand names. But after all, this short distance of 12 miles is divided between two units. NSB Midrange, which has Gjøvik terminal, wants to take off the track from Jaren to Gjøvik and replace this route by bus. So on the short distance of 12 miles, you first have to drive the bus half of the distance, and then you have to go on the year and go over to what you call the new bet, which is NSB Near traffic, and then take it on to Oslo. Is that what the Council of State thinks is forward-looking and is going to take on new market shares? – I would like to mention that the market shares are just going down on the Gjøvik track.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1391	As I answered a question here in Stortinget a short time ago about Gjøvikbanen, I am aware that the NSB assesses different options in relation to future passenger transport services on this route. One of the options considered for further train operation on Gjøvikbanen is to merge regional and local train operations, reporting to the NSB. I look forward to getting an assessment of how we can get the best possible offer on this route. That is what is most important, more important than whether this is shared between two parts of the NSB — possibly entering the local part. When these different options are available, an overall assessment will have to be carried out for the benefit of passengers on the route.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1398	I am pleased that the Council of State will have the best possible offer on this route, because we all do. But I guess that's not exactly what the NSB is doing with the Gjøvik track – that's where you go clearly in the opposite direction. In Sweden, private individuals have taken over many sections, and today they have well over half of the passenger traffic in Sweden. Is there any possibility that Gjøvikbanen can be offered and that other operators can operate this path according to the same system as the Swedes have done? Is there not a more forward-looking way when the NSB obviously does not intend to operate this path properly?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1405	I assume that the NSB wants and will provide the best possible offer to the travellers on this route within the framework that has been drawn up. I take it for granted that it is at the bottom of any assessment. With regard to the issue of other operators, there is little time to consider now. We need to look at developments on the ground, assess the alternatives emerging, and draw the necessary conclusions when negotiating the purchase of new passenger services for 2001-2002.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1415	I have a question for the Minister for Transport: «Møjster and Lilakalsøj are two islands to the sea in the municipality of Austevoll, which is entirely dependent on the boat. HSD has now removed the island population from the catamaran that is currently operating on the islands and replaced it with a smaller one-hull boat with much lower standards that provide insecurity. There will be no availability for wheelchair users. Baby carriages must be carried outside from landing to lounge door. In addition, school students get an insecure school route. What will the Council of State do to restore the boat offer and thereby restore the safety of the islanders?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1424	The question concerns changes to the standard of a local boat route in Hordaland by the fact that the route is now operated on a vessel other than before. I assume that the detained vessel complies with the requirements imposed by the Administrations to travel in the waters concerned. In Norway, county municipalities are responsible for local public transport, including local boat routes. I therefore assume that the changes to which it refers have occurred in understanding with Hordaland County. On this basis, I do not think it is right for me to bring the leadership to the county council with regard to local priorities in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1429	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but cannot say I am satisfied with it. It is possible that the county municipality has followed the procedures by taking a boat that is equivalent to what you can expect technically, but you are not satisfied locally. The new boat only takes 58 passengers, while the catamaran «Westcruise», which has been in use since 1993, took 98. A smaller vessel has been selected, and the route has actually also been reduced by two days a week. The new boat went yesterday's first trip in the connection, and had to reject 15-20 high school students. The school bus had to be held back, while the boat picked up the rest of the students. In the boat you have to pass a high threshold and then down a staircase with two steps, and narrow conditions made it almost inaccessible to wheelchairs. It also turned out that there is room for only one baby carriage or wheelchair, and yesterday this meant that the baby carriage number two had to be folded together and put on the deck. Does the government council of the islanders for the time being feel that it has to be eaten off with such ghastly conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1438	Of course, based on the description given by the representative Knudsen, it is not difficult to understand that there is a dissatisfaction. However, once we have placed this responsibility on the county councils, it must also be the responsibility of the county council to get into the situation, possibly to take the consequences of the dissatisfaction and the conditions that lie there, including those of the people with reduced mobility.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1443	The main reason for the county council to change the boat has been economic. What you owe is an increase in diesel taxes and a general increase in diesel prices. I have to add: it's very hard on this route, and sometimes the students have been very hard on their way home in days of heavy wind. And what you now fear with a one-hull boat is that you get worse relationships. It is also not clear to the traders, the dealers, whether the new boat has room to bring fresh food, such as milk, bread, fruit and vegetables, which are needed twice a week. Since the Saturday boat is cut, there will be no medicine on Saturday for Lilakalsøy, where there are the most elderly people living. It was also claimed locally that when choosing a boat, some of the tenderers received additional oral information after the deadline for submitting a tender. Won't the Council of State now make sure you get this right now, and better offer than to reduce it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1452	We are well aware of the cost growth that has also been seen in local boat traffic as a result of increased oil prices and charges, and there are assessments that will be taken into account in relation to the revised national budget. With regard to the other aspects of this boat alternative, I assume that the necessary signals are sent to the county, including in terms of business conditions, and then it will be up to the county council to assess any consequences of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1462	I will ask the following questions to our Minister for Transport: ‘Norwegian business has much higher transport costs than its foreign competitors. For example, the transport of timber is 35 pst. higher in Norway than in Sweden and Finland. In our neighbouring country, the maximum permissible laden weight is 60 tonnes for vehicle trains, while in Norway it is 50 tonnes. At the same time, the maximum authorised wagon length is 25,25 metres in these countries, compared to 22 metres in Norway. [[for timber transport]] What is the Government doing to harmonise the framework conditions in these areas?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1471	The framework conditions for Norwegian business are influenced by a number of factors, including: the representative of Andersen addresses his question. An important transport policy starting point for determining fuel taxes is the cost of transport activities to society. These are costs related to road wear, accidents and air pollution. Recent investigations do not suggest that diesel taxes are over-estimated in relation to these costs. In general, the government attaches great importance to improving the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. Against this background, the Government of the revised national budget will make an overall assessment of fuel taxes. I cannot therefore comment on this further now. With regard to the issue of increased maximum permissible laden weight and length of vehicles to 60 tonnes and 25,25 metres respectively, there is a proposal from the Directorate of Road. The Ministry of Transport has asked for a more detailed assessment of the environmental and road safety impacts and for investments in and maintenance of the road network before the Directorate of Road could submit its proposal to the hearing. According to the Directorate of Roads, the case can be sent to the hearing in the autumn of 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1478	I thank the Council of State for the answer. First, I would like to say that if Norway introduces the same vehicle regulations as Sweden and Finland, this alone could, for example, reduce transport costs only in timber by 200 million. kr per year, corresponding to approx. NOK 25 per year. cubic metres of timber. In addition, we know that Norwegian car trains have over NOK 100 000 more in annual expenditure than Swedish and Finnish car trains only because of higher Norwegian charges. The diesel price is $3.30 more affordable in Finland, and you can ask yourself why it has become that way around the world. In this area, we see that trade in timber, for example. move ever freer across borders, from Russia, from the Baltic. In such a situation, Norwegian hauliers lose, and the districts lose – and this is primarily about Norwegian districts. There needs to be a better framework for this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1485	I will not comment further on the question of charges and refer to my main answer. With regard to the issue of wagon length and permissible laden weight, it is obvious that a change to these provisions will give business benefits. At the same time, however, there will be road safety consequences, there will be environmental consequences and there will be consequences for our road network, which, for a large part, is not dimensioned for such instruments. It is based on an overall assessment of the cost pages of business and the other elements I have now referred to, we will have to draw a conclusion after a hearing on what should be allowed in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1492	This issue has both important aspects of culture and enterprise policy, as well as aspects of district policy, which the Government should take seriously and address as quickly as possible. The framework conditions of the Norwegian transport industry are not just a limited problem for the transport industry itself. We all know that the extra costs imposed on the transport industry by the Norwegians – or we should say special Norwegians – are being passed on to the rest of the economy, which is once again weakening its competitiveness in an increasingly international market where free cross-border competition is the most prominent. The framework conditions for Norwegian timber transport are a good example in this way, as there is no doubt that both the districts, the forest industry and Norwegian jobs will lose when, for example. Norwegian vehicle regulations, special tax policy, create a low level of competitiveness for the transport industry. This should not continue, and something should be done quickly, within five or ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1497	The government is very concerned about strengthening the conditions for Norwegian business, and I agree that transport issues are central to this. However, with regard to the question of extending the wagon length and the total weight, there are many elements for which we need to have a proper treatment. We will take care of that, and make a decision at a time when the material is good enough to balance all aspects of such a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1505	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘By-development in Bjørvika is widely accepted as important. There has been a time of conflict about the right to dispose of parts of the area between the Municipality of Oslo and Oslo Portevesen. Will initiatives be taken to resolve the conflict, so that the municipality can completely dispose of the areas of the port services in order to achieve urban development in the area, and through property development have a financial contribution to the sub-financing of the sink tunnel at E18?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1514	Oslo Portevesen is a municipal enterprise owned by the Municipality of Oslo. The Oslo port service is therefore not an independent landowner. The land Oslo port is owned by the Municipality of Oslo for port purposes. This also applies to the harbour areas of Bjørvika. This does not mean, however, that the municipality is free to dispose of these areas. By the termination of the ports as independent legal entities and instead became municipal offices when the current port and water law of 1984 entered into force on 1 January 1985, the municipalities also acquired the ownership of the areas previously owned by the ports themselves. The aim of this acquisition was that municipalities should use these areas to operate their port activities. For the purpose of precisely ensuring port operations, the old Port Act of 1933 provided that the assets of the port fund could only be used for port purposes, continued under the Port and Water Law of 1984. If the areas of the port cash office are used for other than port purposes, the provision requires that the port cash office be compensated for at market prices for the areas in question. For the treatment of St. Announcement. No 46 for 1996-97, Ports and infrastructure for maritime transport, the Transport Committee in Innst. S. No 254 for 1996-97 on page 15, first column, that this rule must also apply in the future. The size joined this. The majority has agreed that Oslo port should be a national port, and therefore the State has an interest in how the Municipality of Oslo manages its port areas and operates its port activities. The port activities that have to give way to urban development in Bjørvika have to be moved to other places, and there is a reference to the possibilities available for reprocessing replacement areas elsewhere in the port. In addition, the conflict between the urban development interests and the port interests in Bjørvika is an internal municipal matter which the Municipality of Oslo itself must resolve within the limits of the law. If port traffic is to be moved, there is in principle nothing in the way that the properties in Bjørvika belonging to the Municipality of Oslo can be disposed of for urban development purposes. In this case, however, the law requires that the port fund of Oslo Municipality be allocated to the market value of these properties. Therefore, the amount of any sale of these properties may not be used to finance the sink tunnel. These funds must be transferred to the port register in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Ports and Waters.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1527	I'm familiar with the logic that was now carried out by the Council of State at all points. The reason for my question was that the government of Jagland and the government of Bondevik wanted development in Bjørvika based on fissure and hard work. The majority of the population established an opera in Bjørvika, and the two governments I mentioned said that the infrastructure in the area had to be cooperated on. Everyone agrees that the state agency cannot finance the infrastructure alone, there must be money from Oslo City Council that you are willing to give and prioritize in the bombing of Oslo. Once I've raised the question, it's because the possibility of developing the area is a whole property development where both the state and the municipality are at the same time actors. If the state and the municipality can't coordinate their interests, you don't get to an overall development, you don't get a solution. And when I give the challenge to the Minister of Fisheries, it's because as a member of the Government he can help secure the spirit of virtue that the government of Jagland and Bondevik tried to get through fissure and hard work, and get the infrastructure financed in this area and avoid burdening the transport budget elsewhere. So I repeat the question of whether initiatives will be taken to resolve this conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1536	As I said in my main response, it is my opinion that within the powers that apply, and the laws in force, there is no reason for what has been proposed in terms of using the funds of the port fund for purposes that are not related to the operation of the port. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the fact that ports are largely financed by the charges of port users, and what happens if such measures are proposed is that cross-subsidies are provided from one sector to another – from one group of users to other purposes in the same area where these users operate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1541	I note that while former fisheries minister Lars Peder Breck in a written reply to the representative Foss was willing, on a general basis, to engage in dialogue on the so-called Fjordbyen, the current fisheries minister is holding on to a law. I'm going to go to the reasoning. Property development at Oslo port is partly of course a result of port, but part of the property value results from an urban development that prices it in such a way that the value is greater than that it has been a port alone. So somehow you have to find a solution. And as long as you don't contribute to the solution, but let the ball go back from the council to the municipality, which has now been the line for many years, you end up getting an opera in a crossroads without anyone contributing. I think with respect to report it's a little creative and it's a bad spirit, and I would have waited better from the new government's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1548	Of course, the government is set to have an active dialogue with the users of the Oslo port. However, in addition to the problems that arise in connection with the Dørum representative, it is also true that the needs of the ports have not been met within the possibilities that have been able to be looked at now. It is still the case that there are formal restrictions in the law on what these means are to be used for, and that is what we must choose to deal with until further notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1558	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The self-catching shots that are now coming back after fishing in the Baltic Sea report huge quantities of seals. This means that the fish stocks on which it can be caught are reduced as a result of the selenium eating a significant number of kilograms of fish per day. What will the Council of State do now to reduce the stock of sales significantly in the coming years?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1567	Norway operates today and has traditionally driven self-anxiety in two different areas. We're catching claws and green soles in the West ice, and we're catching Greenland soles in the East ice. In the eastern ice, the most recent estimates for the population show that there are about 2.2 million animals, while the number of animals in the western ice is estimated at 590,000 animals. Calculations carried out by Fisheries Research show that the total number of seal and whale populations we have in an average year eats about. 1.9 million tonnes of commercial fishing in the Barents Sea. It's about as much as we fish out of the same populations. The problem that the representative of Harald T. Nesvik wants to answer is linked to the population of Greenland-Self in the Baltic Sea. This stock is Russian administrative responsibility. Allowances are set for the withdrawal of stocks according to international administrative principles through the processing and advice of the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea, ICES. In view of, inter alia: high juvenile mortality in the population has recommended a quota of 31 600 adult animals in 2000. Through negotiations with Russia in the Joint Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission, Norway has been allocated this year a quota of 5000 adult animals. Norwegian self-anxiety, therefore, has little impact on the population development of Greenland's islands, in view of the current framework conditions. Norway has this year taken its quota in the Baltic Sea. Measures will also be put in place in the coming years to ensure that the quotas in the Baltic Sea are taken, either by Norwegian fishing, by Russian fishing or by a combination of Norwegian and Russian fishing, as is currently the case. Fisheries authorities have two objectives for self-greeding: increased profitability and increased catch from a multi-hazard perspective. In order to contribute to these objectives, the authorities have put in place different types of instruments. Since 1991, we have provided operating support for the ships that have driven self-anxiety and for the reception facilities for seals. Furthermore, we support various information projects with a view to increasing knowledge of Norwegian principles for multi-stock management. Substantial support is also provided for projects aimed at product development and the marketing of cell products. The long-term aim is to make the cell stocks a valuable resource that can contribute to the significant value creation that is currently taking place in the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1588	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I have to say that it bears witness that the Government is taking a very passive line on this issue. You're talking about a multi-drug, you're talking about what international scientists are doing, and what they're doing. What's the reason for my question, of course, is that when it comes to a quota of 31,000 animals of a population of 2.2 million animals only in the Baltic Sea, it goes without saying that this is a problem that we at least cannot solve within the quotas that are currently being set. My question to the Council of State is: what will this government do in connection with negotiations with Russia? Will pressure be put on Russia to increase the number of animals in the Baltic Sea? How do you want to tackle this? For I believe that the Minister of Fisheries also sees the high stock of seals as a significant problem for the Norwegian fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1597	I agree with Mr Nesvik that the large stock of seals is a significant problem for the Norwegian fishing industry. But also this is a question that we have to solve within the framework of the international rules that apply. It is in our interest both in the short and long term that we contribute to international agreements, international cooperation, being the framework for cooperation on resource management. We do not lead a passive line in this matter. We've met annually in the Norwegian-Russian Commission, we're going to have an extra meeting this summer, and it's clear that the new information we're getting about the development of this stock will be the theme of this meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1604	It's that you have to pay so much attention to what the international scientists say, which makes me very worried. This has been done in connection with the whale, and I have hardly heard a scientist in these areas who accepts increased taxation of these animals. I have to say that I hope at least that this government puts more emphasis on reducing the population than the previous governments have done, because now this problem is beginning to be enormous. I don't think it takes a long time with the stock we have now, until the harness starts coming in through the Finnland coast and going down the coast, and then we're really going to hear the crunches again, both in terms of disease, damaged yarn links and other. My question to the Minister for Fisheries is: Will the Minister for Fisheries come back to Stortinget with a message about Norwegian self-anxiety and prospects for it in the future, so that we can now really get a give in the work to get rid of as many of these animals as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1613	In my opinion, there is no reason for the representative of Nesvik to be concerned about making recommendations from international researchers. The international researchers find that you are dealing with very high populations. However, the problem with the development of this industry is that it has been difficult to obtain a market for these products, because there has been virtually political opposition to their marketing in the market. At least it's a problem for us in the West. Every year we address the question of how we will develop this catch further, and this will of course be duly reported to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1623	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘In recent years, we have seen that the beam concessions are concentrated on fewer and fewer hands. We also see a tendency for concessions to disappear from North Norway, and this problem is further reinforced by non-compliance with universal service obligations. Does the Council of State see this as a problem, and what action does he envisage to halt this development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1632	The reason for the question lies in three premises: irradiation concessions are concentrated on fewer hands, concessions disappear from North Norway, and delivery obligations are not met. I'm not going to stand here and now to see if these premises are correct in relation to the entire trawl. Based on the question, I assume that it is primarily aimed at the situation of the freshwater trawler fleet. For this group, there has been a tendency to concentrate ownership on larger groupings and that the real ownership and overall management of the activity have been located elsewhere than before, even if the vessels have remained registered at the same location. However, ‘other’ has not necessarily been outside North Norway. Initially, I think it would be unfortunate if a single or a few operators could gain control of too many fishing vessels. I want a fishing industry that contributes to viable coastal communities through a comprehensive and varied structure, both on land and at sea. I think that, among other things, is achieved through a differentiated fleet structure, both in terms of location and ownership. I am therefore in principle in favour of the ceiling set by the previous government regarding the concentration of ownership in the fishing fleet. On the other hand, the fresh fish trawl concessions were distributed in order to achieve a very special purpose. The aim was that concessions should help create stable jobs, employment, on land. The concessions should contribute to regional welfare. However, this means that the need to secure jobs, such as: now in Hammerfest, must be central to assessing a matter such as the issue between Norway Seafoods and Findus. Therefore, these are difficult issues, and the situation of this trawler group is probably different from that of the other fleet. This must also be taken into account when applying general ownership restrictions to different categories of vessels. In the case of industrial delivery obligations, a number of the freshwater trawls have such obligations. There has been a lot of talk about these not being respected, and in order to clarify this, we are now carrying out a study in the countries concerned on the extent to which the commitments were fulfilled in 1999. As far as the results are clear, we can see that there are considerable variations between vessels. Let it be clear: these concessions were not distributed in order for the individual vessel owner to obtain its own profits through fishing, but to support the industry. I would be willing to discuss how the conditions are to be understood and practised in different situations where the land industry has other sources of raw material. On the other hand, I would not be willing to discuss the principle – it is not a matter of disregarding the terms of delivery. This will be communicated to each company, in clear text, once the review has been completed. I am not going to finish the individual case here and now. The shipowners shall be given the opportunity to comment on the investigation and explain the background to the fact that it has been delivered as it is. However, the aim is that as much as possible of the raw material from these trawls should benefit the industry and form the basis for activity in the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1651	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was clarifying in that way that he shared my view of a differentiated fleet group. Nevertheless, today we see that expropriation of the participant law with exemptions gives an undesirable concentration of rights on few hands. In the case of extended exemptions, we don't know the word until the trawlers are on the stock exchange, and if that happens, then we're bad out to drive. However, my main concern is what is happening within the coastal fleet, and the rights that have been granted to boats that are also concentrated on fewer when circumventing legislation. What's the Council of State going to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1658	It was good to hear that the representative Bastesen and I share the same view of the need for a differentiated fishing fleet. I don't think we're going to experience it as a problem if the ownership of the trawlers or the industrial companies changes. The point is that the conditions under which concessions are granted, the assumptions that have been the basis for granting them, do not change. These concessions shall be used to ensure employment on land. Of course, with regard to the risk of concentration of ownership in the coastal fleet, you have to follow and ensure that the law of participants is practised according to your letter. I have no plans to propose changes to the participant law. The fishing fleet shall, in principle and in practice, be owned by active fishermen. If that's not the case, it has to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1665	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. We also agree on that point. It's important to be careful, because there's an unwanted development that's been going on in the last ten years. I will provide a case report: The Council of State is probably familiar with the recent report from Finnmark, where it appears that 15 out of 19 trawlers break the delivery obligations they have with plants in Finnmark. It's worrying. Another thing, which is maybe a little bit on the side line: The newspaper Fisherman of 28 April says that the gythorsk has been reduced by 70 pst. last year. I think it's a lot to be poor about here. I hope the Council of State agrees with me when I ask that drastic action be taken here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1674	I agree with Steinar Bastesen that it is worrying if we are faced with a dramatically deteriorated resource situation in the case of cod. However, I cannot see that there is a logical link between where the Norwegian trawlers have delivered their quotas and the stock situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1679	Questions 22, 23 and 24, from the representatives of Tor Nymo, Øyvind Korsberg and Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for the Environment, will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries on behalf of the Minister for Environmental Protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1685	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions, which I understand will be answered by the Minister for Fisheries: ‘In order to be prepared for racial and racial danger in an isolated Tamokdal, Balsfjord Presidency recently decided to establish a rescue straé for snowmobiles. According to the newspaper New Troms, this thought was used if the county road was closed and there were no other means of transport. The County Council has endorsed the municipal decision because it does not permit such a leopard in law. What can the Council of State do to bring peoples and supplies to the necessary level in a possible crisis situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1694	I would like to make it clear at the outset that the law on motor travel in the fields and watercourses does not prevent the transport of people and supplies in such a crisis situation as is described in the question. Section 4 of the Act permits the necessary transport of persons and goods to and from permanent residences. This provision normally aims to meet the transport needs of permanently unpaved dwellings, but also in a situation where settlements become unconnected due to racial or racial hazards it is assumed to provide the necessary basis for snowmobile driving. Similarly, the law authorizes the necessary driving in police, ambulance and rescue services. It is clear from the municipality's own case proposal in the case that the municipality is aware that there is no need for specific permits or runs to such driving as is mentioned. Once the County Council has lifted the municipality's decision to set up a standby loop, it has its background in the fact that the law does not allow the establishment of a loop for this purpose. However, this should not prevent the municipality from making preparations in advance of a possible racial or racial hazard by designating a trachea suitable for the safe operation of the necessary transport operations. This preparation may include, inter alia: consist of finding the best route in cooperation with landowners in the area. Nor can there be anything in the way of such a breach to the extent necessary. However, it must be clear that such a trasé has no legal status under the Motor Trade Act and the use of such a trasé must otherwise be in line with the provisions of the Motor Trade Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1707	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What was here now, I'm actually surprised, because what the Council of State said, was that such a noise as you're talking about here, is actually possible to suggest established under special circumstances. Most people in the area we're talking about here, who have been pretty hard tried in winter with race, road closure, etc., have the feeling that you have an environmental protection department in the county that says there's no law to create such a mess. So the Council of State says, it's possible to prepare for it by marking a tie in front of it. You can answer that when you sit in Oslo and you don't know what the situation is like in Tamokdal. When the rage goes, there's actually only one possibility, one trajectory. People in Tamokdal and in the municipality of Balsfjord want security so that they can be rescued, that they can feel the security they need to get help.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1721	I believe that the main response given shows that there is an opportunity to find a practical solution to the problem that people in Tamokdal have. The difference between this, which is formally a road, and what can be used for traffic, is that this is a possible preparation to use a trachea if necessary. I think this is a reasonable practical approach to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1726	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What I feel now is that the decision made by the chairmanship of Balsfjord in the light of the very special and extreme situation in Tamokdal did not allow the County Environmental Protection Department to take, and I ask the Council of State to confirm it. I think that is a neat and necessary clarification. As racist as Tamokdal is, you will, for example. The next year could come in the same situation. That's why I think it's okay for them now to know that there can be a noise when the situation requires it. And now once again you repeat that you can do preparations: it's actually that the road is swept away in hundreds of meters. One actually has to see how the pace goes, before one can start talking about noticing some trachea.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1731	The latest views expressed here by the representative Tor Nymo on the actual situation in Balsfjord will, of course, be noted and included in the further proceedings. I would just like to say that here is a practical solution to how this can be. Pre-marking a loop must be a proactive measure to prevent this from becoming an even more difficult situation at the next crossroads, and this will allow the municipality to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1739	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘An article in the newspaper Nordlys 11 April 2000 states that Vervarslinga for North Norway, Tromsø Satellite Station and the Norwegian Polar Institute have sent an application for financial support for a project to create a proper response around Svalbard. The application was sent to the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Environment in the autumn of 1997 and the applicants have not yet received an answer after two and a half years. Why has the Council of State not responded to the application?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1748	As regards any application from DNMI, NP and TSS from the autumn of 1997, it is not registered in either the Ministry of Fisheries or the Ministry of the Environment's archives. However, we are aware that these institutions are now preparing a new application. With regard to the issue of maritime safety around Svalbard as a whole, increased focus is linked to the fact that shipping in the waters around Svalbard has gradually become relatively extensive. There is traffic on almost all types of vessels, not least in coastal waters. Bulk and bulk freight boats go to and from Svalbard, and tourist boat traffic is significant during the summer season. Smaller boats operate out of Longyearbyen, and large cruise boats are in both Longyearbyen and other ports and fjords on the island group. Furthermore, international fishing is carried out in the fishing protection zone and a number of fishing boats fish annually in the area from Isfjorden on Spitsbergen and further northwards. In particular, shrimp fishing brings significant revenues to the industry each year. However, part of this fishing is considered highly risky, and Hinlaufen is particularly dangerous due to heavy currents and ice passages. At the same time, most of this fishing fleet is not built for the purpose of securing ice, and ice damage, loss of gear and loss lead to significant annual insurance payments. During the period 1994-96, the employment man registered approx. 20 requests where trawlers needed assistance, and at the turn of the year 1995/96, the shrimp trawler "Atlantic Prawn" went down into Hinlaufen due to ice conditions. On this basis, in 1996 the Employment Manager proposed to close the Hinlaufen for fishing in parts of the year. During meetings of the Ministry of the Environment, with other departments, agencies and the fishing industry of the Federation of Fishermen, it was found that closure was of little relevance, and it was agreed to investigate other possible measures, such as: stricter requirements for ice class and improvement of ice and meteorological services in the area. There has been a long-standing service with the dispatch of daily ice maps for the northern seas. In addition, it has been possible to order more detailed maps of Hinlaufen. However, satellite technology has so far had limitations on the recording of ice conditions during cloud cover and in darkness. In addition, available satellite images have had poor resolution, i.e. approx. 30 km. Overall, this has meant that the alert service has not been able to fully meet users’ needs. The Ministry of the Environment, on its side, has followed up efforts to improve the response through its external department of the Norwegian Polar Institute, and work was started on the development of a project for the establishment of an intrusion centre in Tromsø, based on the competence of the city through in the first row the Norwegian Meteorological Institute, the Norwegian Polar Institute and the Tromsø Satellite Station. In May 1998, the Ministry of the Environment received a first sketch of such a service from these environments. Based on new satellite technologies, DNMI, NP and TSS have now also carried out a demonstration project aimed at increasing the quality of the ice maps produced by DNMI over the areas around Svalbard. The results are very positive, and so far eleven ice maps are published on the Internet. At the same time, it must be pointed out that the Government has been aware of the increased risk of maritime traffic around Svalbard in terms of damage to the environment and risky rescue operations. Increased maritime safety has therefore been widely discussed in St.meld. No 9 for 1999-2000, Svalbard, now in the United Kingdom for treatment. The Communication mentions a number of measures to improve maritime safety in the waters of Svalbard, such as: ice monitoring, alerting and surveying. In order to have a coordinated plan for the improvement of maritime safety in Svalbard, the Government set up a working group to assess and coordinate the various measures proposed to improve the safety of waters on 3 November 1999. The working group is composed of representatives from the departments and Directorates concerned and from the Svalbard staff. The report of the Working Party is presented during the year 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1767	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it's important to give answers to the enquiries that the ministry receives, because there's a little bit of trust between the ministry and most people, to put it like this. I also believe that, in the light of this case, it is important that the Department looks at its procedures, especially when, as in this case, one has an application involving several departments. I hope the Council of State looks at these routines. The council said that this application was not registered. This article also showed that several reminders had been made on this application, according to the head of the Verwarslinga for North Norway, Helge Tangen. Why haven't you answered these reminders?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1776	In my main response, I explained that there has already been significant work to improve the conditions that have been addressed. The applications that come from these institutions will, of course, be answered, which I signaled in my main response. In this respect, with the registration of these applications and their processes, the questions asked by the representative will be discussed and explained. However, I think it is relatively unlikely that in two departments there would be a lack of registration of something like this, but of course it will be and has already been examined.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1783	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As I said in my first question, I think it's very important that the department looks at their routines when it comes to answering the enquiries they're receiving. It is strange that both the application and the reminder have disappeared in the system. This is a very important matter. It has to do with the safety of the operators of the area, namely the fishermen, and of course it has to do with life, and this research programme is just taking into account to improve these forecasts. Well, that's not the big amount that's being applied for. The first thing to do is to use approx. Four million. kr on a development project, and then it is about operating funds of 1,5 million. kr annually. So the question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State take an initiative in order for this to be included in the budget for the next harvest?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1794	The applications notified here will, of course, be dealt with when they come in. It is not possible for me to give advance notice that these applications will be dealt with in a special way when they arrive.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1803	I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries, who answers the following questions on behalf of the Minister for the Environment: ‘The average cleaning power of the day is 95 pst. Despite high cleaning power, the receiving water is subject to strict requirements for the receiving water. The municipalities often demand that the recipient be a basin with a minimum water flow of 10 litres/s. Less watering than this often leads to a refusal of housing applications. With today’s quality of mining facilities, the applicable requirements for drains may appear excessive. Should not the requirements for the recipient of the mining facilities be relaxed in order to strengthen scattered housing?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1812	Municipalities currently have the power to grant an emission permit for waste facilities from up to seven housing units or cabins according to the regulations on emissions from separate waste facilities, the separate regulation of 8 July 1992. The regulation requires the type of technical solutions that can be used for such waste water treatment plants, and the mini-cleaning plant is one of the four main methods that can be used. The regulation does not impose general requirements on minimum water flow, but municipalities may lay down conditions to that effect in the light of the recipient and the associated user interests. In this context, it is important to note that many small emissions, which alone have small pollution disadvantages, can also pose a significant pollution problem for some recipients. On 12 April this year, the Ministry of the Environment adopted a new regulation on emissions from small waste water treatment plants, which significantly increases the authority of municipalities. The regulation, which will replace the separate regulation from 1 January 2001, means that municipalities will be able to grant an emission permit of up to 1000 person equivalents. The new regulation does not require technical solutions, so it will be up to the municipalities themselves to impose cleaning requirements and to choose technical solutions. An important part of the task of empowering municipalities in the sewerage sector is for municipalities to set environmental objectives for their water bodies. The development of environmental objectives will provide municipalities with a good basis for overall decision-making on applications for emission permits by allowing an overall assessment of the size of the emissions, other user interests and the actual state of the recipient in relation to the environmental status objective of the water body.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1821	I thank the Council of State for the answer he came with. Today's cleaning technology for these mining facilities is, in the case of private housing, so good in practice that it should not be possible to refuse to build dwellings on grounds of sewerage conditions. Therefore, these mineral cleaning facilities should be able to significantly promote scattered housing. Too many places today there is a refusal to apply for housing in pig-grown areas, precisely on the basis of sewerage conditions. When you have a cleaning power of more than 99 p.p., the effluent that comes out is very low pollutant. I therefore believe that it should be almost impossible to refuse a construction request based on the sewerage conditions, if the builder chooses to use such mining facilities himself. Today's legislation should not be interpreted so freely by the municipalities that they can refuse. The requirement of 10 liters per second, which I referred to in the question, is very real, and on such a basis, there are actually several rejections.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1828	In my main response, I explained that the municipalities were given greater freedom to set emission requirements based on what the recipient can withstand. I think it must be right to take into account the total load on a recipient. I also assume that if the actual cleaning effect on these plants is as high as 99 pst., it will also be possible to do so in most cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1833	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I would just like to point out once again that I have seen for myself examples that there are too strict demands on the recipient just to be able to refuse a building application in a scattered community. In fact, there has also been a background idea that you want to have the least possible spread of housing, and that the applicants go into the municipal building areas. I am not in favour of such a way of using this, and therefore I believe that there should have been a central regulation that says that the municipalities should not have the opportunity to decide for themselves whether there should be 5 or 10 litres of water running per. seconds in a bench or ground infiltration requirement. It was supposed to be a central provision that did not give the municipalities such leeway, because they simply abused it, as I have experienced it as a member of the Building Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1840	I want to repeat what I said both in response and in response. I feel it is right that the municipalities are responsible for the state of the environment in their own recipients. However, the points made by the representative will, of course, be included in the further proceedings of the Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1848	I have a question for our Minister of Agriculture: ‘As part of reducing the significant milk surplus, dairy farmers are bought out of the industry by public funds. Farmers ending with milk and starting with meat production as an alternative may be granted public funds through grants and loans, despite significant overproduction of Norwegian pigmeat and beef. What will the Council of State contribute to rectifying the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1857	As can be seen from the question raised by the representative Øystein Hedstrom, milk producers are bought out of production as part of the reduction of overproduction of milk. In 1999-2000, milk quotas totaled 105.5 million litres. Allowances for buying-in milk quotas are granted under the agricultural agreement. Dairy producers selling the milk quota shall be allowed to develop alternative productions with market opportunities. The building development funds aim at promoting profitable industrial development in rural areas within and in relation to agriculture. Grants and loans may be granted for the development and establishment of new production. However, when assessing applications in traditional agricultural production, account shall be taken of national market conditions and no aid may be granted for the establishment or extension of power-feeding productions such as pigs and poultry. This is provided for in the regulation on rural development funds provided by the Ministry of Agriculture on 22 December 1999. While there is no specific restriction on aid for roughage-based meat production such as sheep and bovine animals, general requirements of the Regulation require that market conditions be taken into account and that aid contributes to economic development. It follows from the question from the representative Hedstrøm that he does not consider it appropriate to provide support for the establishment of production in areas of overproduction. I totally agree with that. During the treatment of St. pp. No 1 for 1999-2000 in December 1999 it was signalled by the Stortinget that rural development funds should not be used to support the establishment and expansion of production in areas of overproduction. This has been followed up by revision of regulations. Building development funds for traditional agriculture and new business start-ups are currently managed by the State Food and Rural Development Fund. The BU funds are part of the agricultural development fund and the framework is established annually as part of the agricultural agreement. SND, together with the municipalities, has a responsibility to follow-up those receiving aid and the aid may be recovered if circumstances conflict with the assumptions. The Ministry of Agriculture is in close contact with SND as regards the management of BU funds and the practice of legislation. I will ensure that it is clarified to the SND that the legislation in this area must be complied with. No official aid shall be granted for the establishment or extension of meat production where there is overall overproduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1870	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I was happy about that. He said he fully agreed with the representative Hedstrøm, and he also stated that he would personally take an initiative to see that the control measures via SND were satisfactory. For one will only bring these arrangements into disrepute if one hand strikes the other in the heel. However, the current year will still be overproduction within today’s systems — it is a well-known economic phenomenon that considerable resources are being injected into an industry. Although milk production is gradually declining, we have a large meat surplus in Norway, both in the case of pigs and cattle. As far as I can remember, it is estimated to be approx. 12,000 tonnes in the current year. Has the government taken into account how to get rid of this surplus? There are, of course, strong restrictions within the WTO now on what can be dumped abroad through regulatory export.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1877	For the sake of order, let me stress that my agreement with the representative Hedstrom in agricultural policy was very specifically linked to the question that was raised here, and there is no need to put anything more into it than that. In relation to the main question and the main answer, I would like to stress that it will therefore be possible to obtain BU funds for meat production, but not for an extension of production. So if you're facing the renewal of existing operating buildings with similar production as before, you can get BU funds for it, but not for a production expansion. With regard to the surplus that Hedstrøm correctly points out, especially in meat production – we have done something with milk – it is only to stress that it is the industry's own responsibility to bring production into balance with the market, and I think it is wise that it will still be so.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1886	We now have a very well-regulated agricultural industry. I don't know if that was what the Swedish Council of State was thinking about when, in the Telenor-Telia case, he referred to Norway as the last Soviet state. There's a certain possibility of that. We have a trading law that I call a Stalinist regulation law, and it actually allows cheap sales. Does the Council of State think it would make sense to spend some of the huge overproduction we see, on cheap sales in Norway, so that Kari and Ola Nordmann can get some of their own subsidies in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1893	I believe that my approach to the problem that Hedstrom is dealing with here is that the main objective must be that the price of Norwegian food, i.e. Norwegian-produced agricultural-based food, should generally be lowered. It will be an important job for the Stortinget to take part in the processing of both the soon to be processed agricultural message and the agricultural settlement this year. Because if we then manage to bring down the price of Norwegian food, at least on some of the important products, I think it will lead to reduced border trade, which in turn will lead to an increased national market, which will limit overproduction problems. It was combined with the fact that the industry itself takes responsibility for the total production, is probably, from my point of view, the best way to go in relation to the problem description that we agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1901	I have the following questions for the Minister of Agriculture: ‘According to Brønnøysunds Avis, 26 April 2000, the Land Change Office in Brønnøysund is proposed to be closed and merged with the office in the Mos Sea. The closure of the office in Brønnøysund will result in a significant deterioration in the service to the public. Most landslides come from the municipalities of Sømna and Brønnøy. If these matters are to be dealt with in the Baltic Sea, it means a travel distance of 17 miles, for some come ferry in addition. Are the plans for closure in line with the organisation of the Land Change Offices the Ministry wants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1910	The land change right in southern Greece is currently located in Brønnøysund. The landslide covers five municipalities. On average, 9.5 cases have occurred between 1990 and 1998. It has been problematic for a long time to keep stable staff at the right to change the land by the fact that it is difficult to recruit new employees, and it has been felt that the work has stopped. The question of merging the right to land change in southern Greece with the right to land change in northern Greece has been sent to a separate project group that has assessed the organisation of land change rights. The project group considers that: ‘it is not possible to maintain the two powerful office units in Helgeland. Both offices are below the minimum crew requirement. [[project group]] The Office of the Sea of Mosque should be maintained and strengthened’. The project team’s investigation has now been consulted and the consultation deadline expires on 5 May this year. Once all opinionable parties have been consulted and the hearing opinions have been evaluated, the Ministry will take a position on any change in the country’s division into the land parcel. Otherwise, I refer you to the answer that Mr Gjønes gave on 12 March 1999 to the representative Mr Bastesen's question for a written answer on the same matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1924	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am aware that a project group has been set up. I have the impression that the initiative for aggregation in time came from the County Agriculture Manager of Nordland. Helgeland is a large district. We also have the interests of the outermost municipalities, not least the Vega area, which is in southern Greece. Now I'm not sure if Alstadhaug and Herøy are also on the south side or if it's on the north side. But it is worrying if the office is moved into the lake. There are 17 miles of travel distance, and for people out in the outermost regions who also need treatment in the right to land change, such centralisation is a very poor solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1931	I suppose my most important task here today is to listen to what the Bastisen has to say, and to take with me what is said, in the assessments that I will have to make when the time comes. And I can promise Bastisen that I will take with me the considerations that have come, while I feel the need to say that, after all, the most important task we're facing will be to focus primarily on getting an organisation of the right to land change that ensures a good right to land change. In this way, of course, we should also bet on offices that have so many issues that they provide the basis for a good enough professional staffing. Then, of course, there are moments up to everything that goes on service to the audience, which the Bastisen points to in particular, and I noticed that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1936	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am pleased that he will include my views in the further consideration when the project group is finished. Public service is important. We're gathered here in this house to take care of the interests of the ordinary Norwegian picker. The previous government signified that there were service statements that should be the answer to most problems. We have stated on several occasions from this pulpit that that is not what people need; people need a solution to the issues they have in preparation. My question will then be to the Minister of Agriculture: are there any service statements that will answer most of the applications to be dealt with?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1943	I do feel that the main question that we're debating with different approaches here now is how we're going to get a good right to land change. Service to the public in this way I think it can also be the most important answer. I would like to believe that people who, for various reasons, report cases for the right to change, are primarily concerned with getting a good professional treatment of their case, and that it will be the most important approach to providing public service in this case. Then Bastesen also brings forward some practical aspects related to service. Now, I guess it's not like meeting for the land change right that you're doing all the time, so that sometimes you have to travel a little bit, maybe it's not the most important thing. But yet I recognize that it's part of it all, and I'm going to take it with me, as I said.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1955	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: «Every boat today has a listening duty on Channel 16. If new regulations are introduced, the obligation to listen will be removed by 2005. Coastal safety will be significantly reduced if the new regulations are introduced. The emergency message from ‘Sleipner’ to Rogaland radio went on emergency channel 16 and led to the ‘Espeværexpressen’ and ‘Askita’ setting the course immediately towards the Bloksen, and was first forward. A total of 41 people were rescued by the sea by these two boats. What will the Council of State do to maintain the obligation to listen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1964	All ships in the world from countries associated with the UN International Maritime Organisation (IMO) are today obliged to listen on Channel 16. The IMO is working on issues relating to the further development of Channel 16 and new emergency alert equipment across this channel, and where the main point is new and better systems for the notification and receipt of emergency messages. Of course, there is a great deal of interest in how the development of emergency communications via channel 16 will be in the future. The Ministry of Justice is closely monitoring developments and is in constant contact with the environments dealing with these issues both nationally and internationally. The IMO has questions of continued listening obligations for assessment, and the issue needs to be considered in the context of the impact on maritime safety, trust in the new system and the speed at which the new system is implemented on ships, and on which ships. The IMO, as represented by Stensaker, has indicated that, if developments are positive, one of the consequences of the new system will be able to put an end to the obligation to listen in 2005. But it is up to each country to decide whether they want to keep the listening obligation on Channel 16. However, as responsible for the emergency and safety services at the coastal radio stations, I will contribute to ensuring that safety will not be impaired in the future. I therefore believe that the listening obligation must be maintained if the new channel warning equipment does not provide equal safety or security. The safety of the sea must therefore not be impaired. I would also like to mention that, as part of improving safety at sea, the main rescue centres will be able to listen to all emergency communications via channel 16 in parallel to the coastal radio stations. So they haven't been able to do that before.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1977	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am aware that the IMO is launching a new system, but it is actually more intended for ships. As a user of a small boat, it is not economically possible to use a satellite connection, nor is it coverage via a mobile phone. Therefore, today's VHF system over Channel 16 is the only way to get help if you get in an emergency. That's why I ask: will the Council of State help to ensure that the safety of the sea is not impaired even for smaller boats?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1982	It is correct, as the representative Steinsaker says, that this new system is primarily intended for the large vessels. It is therefore also correct that it does not meet the needs of all the smaller vessels that go along the Norwegian coast. That is also why I stressed that I will not be in favour of any lifting of the obligation to listen if we do not believe that security is being equally well protected by the systems that might relieve the listening obligation on Channel 16. But it's still known for five years until 2005, and we have to keep open to make sure that the world looks a little different then. If it doesn't, I'm not prepared to cancel the listening obligation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1987	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am well pleased with the intention that the safety of the large small-boat fleet we also have in Norway will be safeguarded even if we have a new system. I hope that the Council of State, if there is a new system, will ensure that Channel 16 or that system is maintained unless the new one ensures the security of the price that a VHF costs today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e1992	I've learned that I always have to answer, but I don't have so much more to add, other than to point to the answer I gave, and that we will jointly try to ensure that safety at sea is maintained at a high level.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2000	I allow myself to address the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘In the last half of the year, there have been 17 shipments of money in Norway. Through the World Gang on 19 April 2000, it has become known that internal conflicts in the police over time have hampered the investigation of the many value transport channels. What will the Council of State do to ensure adequate progress and necessary coordination of law enforcement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2009	Combating criminality is a priority area for the police. These crimes represent serious threats and violence and cause fear and damage to those who are victims of the crimes. In addition, these are very large economic values. It is the police districts of Oslo, Drammen and Rome that have been hit by the so-called value transporters. The stripes are professionally done, and they may seem to have more similarities. It has therefore been natural to investigate whether the same perpetrators are behind several of the cranes. In order to obtain an effective investigation of these cases, the First State Attorney at the State Attorney's Office of Oslo therefore decided that investigation and prosecution should be coordinated at the Oslo Police District. One State Advocate in charge of the proceedings has been appointed. Investigations and coordination of so many major issues require considerable resources, and the Ministry of Justice, upon request from the Oslo Police District, has allocated NOK 840,000 in exceptional funds for the investigation. Investigating such major investigations is a demanding and laborious task. However, it is often experiential that such cases are resolved after careful investigation. After examining this case with the management of the Oslo police district, it is reported that there is no recognition in the tip formulations in the newspaper article, and it is hard to understand that the investigation has been inhibited, as it has been produced in the media. The research in these matters is progressing well. A total of 24 people are targeted at the various issues. It is the appointed State Attorney in charge who, together with the management of the Oslo Police District, has overall responsibility for the progress and investigation of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2020	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The Council of State gave a description of the challenges posed by the ever-increasing crime, including with regard to the transport of goods. There's no reason to disagree with her there. She also states – if I understood her correctly – that after being in contact with the Oslo police district, it has been found that there is little or no hold in the claims made in the VG. But it is reasonable that State Attorney Olav Helge Thue, who has an overall responsibility, and to which the Council of State referred, in the same article, expresses the following: ‘During periods, the situation has hampered the search for investigators.’ And then my follow-up question is: In the light of what I have referred to, and what the State Attorney-General has said, doesn't the Council feel that there is a need to go in and investigate what is the reality of the article I'm referring to?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2032	The answer to that is really no. I have talked about this matter with the Oslo police district when I was visiting there on Friday. We have received the answer on the question of question time, and they confirm that the investigation is in good hands. They have also been in contact with the state attorney and discussed the petition at the time it took place. So it's 24 blinds. In 10 of the 15 cases – as I understand it is – the targeted persons, and the Oslo police district believes that the investigation is in good progress. And then I feel as secure as I think I can and should be, in relation to the large number of things that are available at any time in the various police districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2037	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I guess cannot be seen as directly positive. Now, as a member of the Justice Committee at Stortinget, we are also in contact with the police districts. We also have contacts with units in the districts where there are different opinions in relation to what management expresses. So that's what I think -- without trying to give the Council any advice in any way -- with a background in this, and also with a background in contrast, for example. between Kripos and units within the district, which has been shown to be held in the past, it is reasonably surprising that the Council of State is so reluctant to take a closer look at this as she expresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2042	I can see that here you have, among other things. As a result of the question in the Questionnaire, the representative examined the matter that the representative raised, and I feel that I have received sufficient confirmation that the investigation is in good repair. But that does not mean, of course, that I do not generally agree with the representative Nymo that sometimes it is that the department should follow up and intervene if there are difficult cooperation relations or other issues that are not the same as they are in the police. But I hope so much that the new organisation of the central police department can take even more care of it in a good way in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2057	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2063	I would like to ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘In Hedmark, as in other counties, secondary school students who have up to 6 km of school road one way have to pay for the use of public transport itself. Does the Council of State see this injustice that affects districts because of long distances versus those who live in more central areas, and what will the Council of State do in that case to eliminate this discrimination?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2072	The right to free school kissing for high school students only applies to those who live more than 6 km away from school. This applies to all students, whether they live in central or more pig-grown strips. Students with a journey of less than 6 km to school usually have to cover any travel expenses, regardless of where they live. The principle of equal rights to education irrespective of the parent’s economy, place of residence and geography has been central to Norwegian education policy. The intention of equal rights to education also includes school kissing. The Law on the Welfare of Students was amended in 1994, and the right to free school pillows was introduced for students living at a certain distance from schools. The Ministry then established a minimum travel distance of 6 km, which was in accordance with the local government's standard regulations for showering students in secondary schools. The rule was continued in the Training Act adopted by Stortinget in June 1998. The size has therefore recently assessed and decided that there should be a certain distance between home and school for students to have the right to clear skyscrapers. There's in this case set a clearly defined limit to getting a right. I can't see that it's more unfair for students living in the districts than for students living in the central districts, that they have to live more than 6 km from school in order to have the right to a free shot.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2083	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In its reply, the Council of State sets out the principle of equal rights to education, irrespective of the parent’s economy, place of residence and geography. Sees the State Council that high school students with a living distance to school at e.g. 5–6 km one road will have an additional cost in relation to those who have a very short school road, as well as those who have a longer school road than 6 km, and that this would unfairly affect those who are affected and thus have a worse economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2090	It is clear that you can always discuss whether the limit should go at 5 km or 6 km – or 4 or 7. But the main thing is that in 1994 the Stortinget decided that at least those who have a distance of more than 6 km have the right to free school pillows. This applies both in cities and in districts. If the representative of Bredvold gets an impact on his policy, namely to have free choice of schools in the big cities too, more people in the cities will also be dependent on school kisses, and so people in the cities will be very happy to have this right. Now it's like I've been working on this court for a lot of years. When I started in politics, in the AUF of the South-Trande Team in 1989, the South-Trunde Teams of the County introduced a percentage on school kiss of NOK 1500. per student. We got that fight back, and finally we got a legal right. It's free for the counties to go beyond what the law gives the right to, but everyone with more than 6 km of school road is going to have the right to free school kiss. It would have been interesting to hear Bredvold's opinion on how the Progress Party's proposal not to have that right would have turned out also for people in pig-grown strokes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2099	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There was a little bit of thinking about reducing this and going down from 6 km to e.g. 5 km. Can the Council of State estimate going down to 4 km, as is the rule for high school students?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2106	There's no concrete plan for me to go in and see if we're going to reduce that limit. It is, as I said, clear for each county council to decide whether to give free school kisses to those who live, for example. between 4 and 6 km from school, but the statutory law applicable to the whole country applies for 6 km. I interpret the question I now got from Bredvold, where the Progress Party has turned around 180° in this case and now is for free school kiss for those who live 6 km from the school site. That, I think, is a positive development. It was an important reform. When we got the right to three-year high school for everyone, it was important to make this right real. The progress party was against both. Now, obviously, there's been a turnaround, and I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2119	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister of Church, Education and Research: «The need for new student housing in Oslo is great. High cost makes it difficult to obtain manageable rentals for new construction projects. The government therefore asked the government to consider amending the grant rules for student housing, so that the rate in Oslo, for example, can be increased to NOK 300000 within the current ceiling of 60 pst. of the construction costs. The Student Association in Oslo informs that they do so per year. On 27 April 2000, neither new building commitments nor signals have been received following the Stortinge’s proposal. When will this be followed up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2128	I thank the representative Odd Einar Dørum for the question. This is an important matter. Few new student homes and increased housing prices have combined to create a difficult situation for students who want temporary housing. The construction of student housing shall contribute to reasonable accommodation and thus make it possible to choose higher education, irrespective of the economy of their own or of their parent. With regard to commitments for the construction of new student housing, Oslo was given special priority in 1999, so that there is hope that more student housing can be available to students in a short time. The rules for the award of grants for the construction of student housing are currently such that the rate of grants in press areas such as: Oslo may amount to up to NOK 300000 per year. Student housing unit, i.e. that the department can approve student housing projects with a unit cost of DKK 500000. Following the conversion of the Student Housing Grant Scheme, the Ministry has proposed that 60 pst be given. grants to student housing projects with a cost framework of up to DKK 350 000 per year. hybel unit. It leads to a state grant of NOK 210 000. However, the Ministry has opened up student housing projects in press areas, where specific costs contribute to the costing framework exceeding NOK 350 000, can be approved and granted State aid of 60 pst. of pre-approved construction costs. Specific costs may include building dwellings in press areas or adapting them to disabled persons. The upper limit on the approval of construction costs for student housing if, for example, it is built in press areas will be a discretionary assessment by the Ministry. In this assessment, particular attention is paid to the fact that students’ rents do not become too high. This was communicated to student partnerships, recognised student housing foundations, universities and higher education institutions in the letter of 10 June 1999. The Ministry writes that, on a case-by-case basis, we will consider a possible supplement to the cost framework of student housing projects in press areas. In March this year the department approved a student housing project in Oslo with a unit cost of NOK 426 000. The examination of applications for commitments for the construction of new student housing is in the final phase, and letters of assignment will expire in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2143	I thank the Council of State for the positive basic attitude he shows in the answer. I am well aware of what has happened before with regard to the rules and the ability to exercise judgement. And if there's a point on my question, it's saying that this insight in Oslo enough has to become a rule. Because if you look at the housing situation in Oslo, based on the existence of plots at a reasonable price, and look at what is currently possible to produce, I think you have to rely more on prices at the level of the council itself mentioned, from NOK 426,000 and perhaps up to NOK 500,000. If you're willing to do that, you can also produce significant volume. You can achieve what both the Council of State and I have as common purpose, namely that this youth group will have a chance. So my suggestion is that the discretion that exists there is considered not just to be a judgement that is to be attached to individual matters, but a judgement that might have to be made more firm, so that when planning housing in Oslo, for example. student cooperation has a greater predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2150	It is in any case a limited pot of money that we have at our disposal for student homes, so the process of application and treatment in the department we must in any case go through, so predictability in relation to the fact that you will certainly get funding for any project, you will never come to terms with it. I can at least fully join the representative of Dørum saying that it is important to get built student housing even where the costs go beyond the standard rules, and the Stortinget even underlined in the consideration of the budget for 2000 that it was special in Oslo, plus some other places, that was the greatest need. The issue is that where there are press areas, it is also most difficult for students to obtain other housing, and therefore the need for student housing is also greatest there, but at the same time most expensive. That's what we've been trying to solve by showing such flexibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2157	I and the Council of State fully agree that under the budget sentence we are all living, and that anyone who wants to influence the budget framework, whether it be the student parliament or the big business representatives or others, must participate in the process. My point was more that the framework, no matter how they might be at the budgetary procedure, should be that the possibility of exercising discretion could become the fixed rule. But I've understood that the Council of States is open to it, I feel that he here has an open position, and then we'd rather meet by other channels, so that what we have as an attitude can become a practical policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2164	It's not long since I was a student in Oslo myself, and in the same way that the representative Dørum moved in like that. I know both from my own and from the reality of my peers what kind of housing situation is in Oslo. Now it is not against my will to find construction projects in Oslo that cost no more than the standard framework, but it is clear that we have to expect some projects in Oslo to be more expensive, and we are fully prepared to demonstrate the flexibility that makes it possible to realize the housing projects that are available on the student side of Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2177	This question, from the representative of Arne Lyngstad to the Minister of the Church, Education and Research, will be raised by the representative of Elsa Skarbøvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2180	I have the following questions for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘The Information Service Fund is managed by the Ministry of Church, Education and Research. The Fund has ethical guidelines for its investments in line with the values of the Church. The NRK Television and Norwatch have shown that the investments do not follow these. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the Fund is managed in line with the Church’s ethical basis?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2189	The guidelines for the financial positions of the Information Society Fund are now set out in the main instructions for the management of the Fund, laid down by the Ministry of 12 October 1999. The ethical part of the guidelines is as follows: ‘Financial positions shall be based on an overall assessment of the companies concerned and on social, ethical and environmental conditions. The financial management shall take into account the value bases of the Norwegian Church. Shares shall not be acquired in companies which are wholly or substantially active in the porn, arms, tobacco or alcohol industry.» The majority of the portfolio of shares is set aside for the management of external AIFMs, such as ‘active management’, where the Information Society’s fund itself is the owner of each individual security, or is located in unit trusts managed by the same AIFMs. Portfolios are regularly held in meetings between representatives of the Ministry and the administrators concerned. These meetings include: following the financial position guidelines. The ethical guidelines are also contained in the agreements we have with the external administrators. The guidelines have been developed in consultation with the Council of Churches, and financial management is in consultation with it. However, it would be difficult, not to say impossible, sometimes to avoid companies in which the fund has shares, by buying or merging into a position that would enable them to run counter to the fund's ethical guidelines. The fund has on a few occasions sold shares in companies which, in the event of a proposed merger, would be in a position likely to run counter to the Church's valuations on an aggregate basis, and on a few occasions such relationships have been brought to the attention of others and acted accordingly. Otherwise, some minor elements of a company's or a subsidiary's business may be in isolation, but an overall assessment of the whole of the company's business must be taken into account in assessing whether the company as such is not investment-worthy of the Information Society's fund. Having assessed the matter, I believe that the department's administration has been managed as far as practicable in accordance with the applicable guidelines, but of course I will also consider input into the practice of the guidelines of the Council of Churches in connection with the possible reorganization of the management of the fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2205	I thank the Council of State for the answer and am pleased that this is being carefully reviewed, and that of course you will follow the guidelines that have been laid down. The Church has a special responsibility that bears important ethical values, and therefore it also requires additional responsibility to be credible in this regard. And when this fund is intended for the purpose of the Church, it is important to follow the guidelines here. I know that the Council of State has stated in a TV program that a reorganization of this fund is being considered, and I want to ask the Council of State whether this will happen, and how he then assesses the composition of the board of directors of this fund. The Christian People's Party sees it as positive that there will be a separate government for this fund, and that it will be separated from the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2212	That's exactly what we're looking at in the ministry at these times, whether the Information Society's fund should have its own board that can manage it, and maybe also with external representatives, for example. from the Church itself. We're not done with that process, so we get to do it when the process's in port. But I just want to add a little bit to the problem of the ethical guidelines. I believe that no matter who will sit and manage this fund, there will be a number of issues, such as: the case that was most focused in the media for some time ago, when one of the companies that the fund had invested in turned out to own TV 1000, which actually broadcast programs that might not be entirely in line with the Church's ethics. It turned out that the company did not own the channel at the time the fund bought the shares, it was an acquisition that had been made in retrospect. This shows how difficult it is for those who manage the fund to keep up with everything that happens. But we're going to fix as far as possible the things we discover, even when there are others who discover them for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2219	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that a reorganization of this fund will be further assessed in the ministry. I am aware that it is difficult to follow these guidelines, but I expect that what is set out below, that human rights should be taken into account when it comes to weapons production, pornography, etc., is being followed up. I would then ask the Council of State whether he agrees that the representatives of the Church should have a majority in such a government when it is for church purposes this fund is to be used, and when such clarification will take place. In the past, it was in the case of the Special Fund II that the representatives of the Church Meeting had a majority in the Governing Board.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2228	I have not made any concrete assessments preliminary to how that board should be composed. What must be quite clear is that this is a fund that is the property of the State and that it is the State as such that determines how the fund board should be composed. But how many representatives, whether there should be representatives from the Church, and whether there should be other external representatives, is something we get back to when we might reorganize the management of the fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2238	This question, from the representative of Rolf Reikvam to the Minister of Education and Research, will be raised by the representative of Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2241	I would like to ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions on behalf of the representative Rolf Rekvam: ‘3. May 2000 is the World’s asthma day. According to a study of Aplan Viak, only 5 pst. of the country's schools satisfactory indoor environment. This affects the health of students, causes concentration problems and reduces learning ability, and causes additional distress and stress to students with asthma and allergy problems. Will the Government propose its own work environment regulations for the students in order to advance work on indoor climate, and what other measures will the Government take to ensure a good indoor climate for the students?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2250	It's not exactly as Djupedal's representative says, that only 5 pst. of the country’s schools have a satisfactory indoor environment. According to the Aplan study, the evaluation of environmental health protection regulations in kindergartens and schools, to which reference is made, is only 5 pst. of the municipalities which state that the work on completing the requirements of the regulation has been completed, but at the same time a whole of 87 pst. by the municipalities in process, in the sense that the work has been started, but not completed. About half of the non-completed municipalities indicate that they have ambitions and objectives to have the enterprises completed in one year, and within two years. However, one third need longer time than this, for most people from three to five years. According to the Aplan investigation, the main single reason is that the provisions of the regulation of 1 December 1995 No. 928 on environmental health protection in kindergartens and schools, etc., not being respected, lack of finances to remedy the situation. In the Aplan investigation, among other things, the following: ‘Implementation is well under way and the provisions are taken seriously, but some concrete and decisive instruments are lacking to enable target achievement to be achieved. These relate both to costs and to the management systems to ensure the functioning of the regulation as intended. There are clear challenges here, and the evaluation provides a basis for addressing these challenges to those authorities responsible for the regulation.It is therefore the instruments that lead to the achievement of the objectives that should be questioned and not the regulation as such.’ This means that legislation itself already makes clear demands on the working environment today. However, it is necessary to consider, inter alia: the provisions of this Regulation concerning user involvement and the system of supervision. This will be done in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, which is responsible for the regulation on environmental health protection in kindergartens and schools etc. and the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, which is responsible for kindergartens. We will also assess whether current legislation should be improved and whether students should be given even stronger work environment legislation. However, the most important thing will be to encourage school owners to draw up obligatory plans on the basis of regulations and to set aside funds for their follow-up. I will follow developments closely, including: through the state reports of the national education offices. In addition, I would like to discuss the matter with the Municipal Councils and discuss how we can jointly agree on measures that can help to improve indoor climate and working environment in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2266	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which in its nature was relatively predictable. I understand that the Council of State has a commitment here. As both the head of the AUF and also as a major representative, he has previously taken a warm stand for a working environment law for students, and I hope that it is still part of the agenda, even though it did not appear in the answer that was now given. What is the difference between a work environment law and other general provisions that also point in the right direction is, of course, the possibility of sanctions in a legal provision. And the paradox in Education-Norway is this: Students and students do not have their own law, nor do they have sanctions, while employees, teachers and other workers have the possibility through the Working Environment Act to point out shortcomings and also to put down the work in the most extreme cases. My follow-up question to the Council of State is: Will the Council assess the type of sanctioning option provided for by today's Working Environment Act, including for students and students?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2277	Yes, I would like to assess whether in the future we should also tighten the rules applicable to the working environment of students, and I would also like to assess whether students should either be included in the Working Environment Act or have their own work environment law. But the main thing is for things to be remedied, and so you can get a little bit on the way by getting supervision systems and checking the regulations we have today. I also believe that the development of continuing education with the major skills reform, where adults are now legally entitled to secondary school and also primary school, can help to speed up work on the work environment. It will be a paradox on the day we get a proper follow-up and further education, where the whole population, including those who work, will switch between being at work and in school, that one day you are in work and are subject to a work environment law, while the next day you are on the school bench and do not have the same protection. I believe that the trade union movement will gradually be one of the leading drivers in order to get good work environment regulations in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2284	I thank you again for the answer. It is positive that the new State Council of the Ministry of Education has been involved in the reform of continuing training, which has now been treated in the United Kingdom a number of times. This is just one of the many different conflicts or problems that such a great reform is going on. But no matter how it works, it will not be enough to wait for workers to experience the dilemma of sitting on the school bench without protection, and of being a sheltered worker. So we're talking about students and students who haven't gotten into the labour market yet, and so the situation for the big deal isn't going to be what the government council is now describing. It has been extremely slow — it must be possible — after the legislation on environmental health protection came into force. This is probably not primarily due to bad will from the school owners. First of all, it's probably because of a bad economy. I'm not going to ask the Council of State about the economy, because he doesn't answer it anyway. My final question is this: What time does the Council of State see that the Department will work on the various measures outlined here?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2295	I don't want to notify any time horizons for when we might say yes or no to extending the work environment legislation for students and students. What I can say is that we're from day number. 1 has worked and will continue to work to improve working conditions for students. Of course, the local economy is important. As the representative, Mr Djupedal himself, said, we get back to that in every year's budget. But there is a positive development in the individual municipalities, how many have started to rectify the situation. Clearly, the situation for some students is serious. In fact, if you have asthma problems, school life can be very difficult. This is about fundamental principles of our welfare policy: equal rights to education also for those suffering from poor indoor climate. I believe that the representative Djupedal and I are fully in line with the objective of creating a good indoor climate, and then we get to work together to get it as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2304	That being the case, it is no. 1 on the map of the day has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-03.ana.ud1122e2313	There is no record available.
