ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e27	The representatives of Trond Helleland, Shahbaz Tariq and Børge Burnde, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The representative of Siri Frost Sterri shall apply for leave on Wednesday 18 October to attend the meeting of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee in Brussels. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Michael Momyr, is invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Michael Momyr is elected to the Lamentations for the time he meets the representative Siri Frost Sterri.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e59	Michael Momyr is here and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e64	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e69	I suggest Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e74	The Kjell Engretsen has been proposed as President. – Other proposals are not available, and Kjell Engebretsen is unanimously elected president of Stortinget’s meeting today. The representative John Dale will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e79	I'll include this in a Document No. Eight proposals for the Storting to be presented to the plan to establish a wolf management area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e84	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e88	On behalf of Thore Aksel Nistad, Christopher Stensaker and myself, I want to make a private proposal to convert NSB BA into an ordinary limited liability company and to open up competition at the railway station.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e93	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e114	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg State Council Terje Moe Gustavsen State Council Anne Kristin Sydnes The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e133	The City Council of the Right in Oslo has announced that there will be major restrictions in Ullevål hospitals because it is more important to save money than to treat patients. The same is true of other hospitals in the country. This happens in a situation where the Norwegian State receives nearly 100 000 million more than estimated for the current year. The government is sitting like a passive spectator. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg has said that there are no nurses coming up from the boreholes in the North Sea. But there's going to be money to pay the nurses and doctors that are available, so they're working instead of being cancelled or not working. My question to Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg is therefore: How long will the government sit as a passive spectator to prevent sick people from being treated, when we have enough money to improve their capacity immediately from 1 November, so that they are treated?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e142	The government won't sit passive and watch that people who need treatment don't get it. That is why we have proposed a strong stepping up of the Norwegian health service. More money will be allocated to Norwegian health services than ever before in the State budget we have proposed for 2001. Norway has gone from being among those countries that had a medical coverage similar to the average in the rich countries of the world to being absolutely top. We have had extensive investments in new equipment, and we are going to buy even more equipment and allocate even more money to the Norwegian health service. But then the government says something more, namely that in addition to getting more money than ever, we need to look at the obvious organisational problems that are in health care, such as. is illustrated in Ullevål Hospital, where operations are clearly more expensive than in many other hospitals, where we see that operating rooms are empty, that valuable equipment is not used, and that doctors spend less and less time treating patients. So we believe that you need to get more money – we've been doing that for many years – and also look at how the hospital system is organised.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e150	I would like to thank you enough for an explanation of the facts. And the fact is, Ullevål Hospital has to save $300 million. kr. The boss says this means that people don't get treatment. The same is said from Haukeland, from the Regional Hospital in Tromsø and from other hospitals. And now when the Prime Minister talks about reorganisations over and over again, maybe I could ask, when is it going to start with at least the most sensible, to secure funds so that hospitals can employ service staff and office staff, so that nurses and doctors do less office work, and treat patients? There's money that's needed. The Progress Party has made proposals to strengthen the year’s budget – not next year, but year’s budget – by DKK 2 billion, to cancel the deficits at all hospitals of the country and ensure full capacity utilisation in November and December. And because we have such long queues, we've suggested spending $3 billion of the extra hundreds of billions to buy operating capacity abroad, because it's not going to be inflationary. Would we be able to get the government's support to do something now, so that not sick people might die while waiting for treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e157	We're already reorganizing the health system. We've been working to reorganize state hospitals and expect to be able to make proposals if not so much time in relation to it, and we've suggested that they can also become state enterprises and get a better form of organization, so that they exploit the workforce, health professionals, capital and equipment better than they do today. It has not been long since we introduced a new funding system — effort-driven funding — for the healthcare sector, which has seen a sharp increase in the number of patients treated. We are introducing a permanent reform, which is a major and important health reform, and we have also announced that we should look at the entire ownership of the hospital structure. So we are in the process, have implemented and have announced a wide range of large and small reforms of the Norwegian health care system. The result of that is that we now have a health care system that is at the top of the world, while a few years ago we were about on average. But we're not satisfied with that. It is going to be even better, and therefore we are notifying further reorganisations and further new appropriations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e164	There will be follow-up questions – John I. Alvheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e167	The sharp escalation in the health sector expressed by the Prime Minister cannot be found in the State budget available for treatment in the United Kingdom. As I said earlier, it is not credible. The Health Agency in Oslo has ordered the new Director and the Chairman to save 300 million. 2001 kr. This will affect 10,000 patients, including 20 pst. are priority patients. Can the Government of Stoltenberg sit and see that this happens, without intervening immediately with the Municipality of Oslo, and ensure that this saving does not come into play, so that patients can expect treatment in Ullevtål Hospital in 2001, as they are entitled to?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e174	As I have said, in relation to what Mr Alvheim is asking about, we have proposed to increase the appropriations in 2001, and the appropriations have already increased for the current year. It was added well over NOK 1 billion – up to NOK 2 billion in total – to our hospitals. One of the first things that this government did was to make sure that billions extra were added to the hospitals this year, and then we have proposed further increases to the health services and hospitals for 2001. So it's not true that you're sitting still, you're doing a lot this year and you're proposing to do even more in 2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e180	Olav Gunnar Ballo – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e183	I have an additional question for the Prime Minister. We have seen that the state has not applied for such equipment this year that the funds from the state have been used up. One obvious reason is that the counties have such a poor economy that they cannot afford to pay their share of hospital equipment. Then I would like to ask the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister see the reasonableness of the state going in and covering a much larger proportion of hospital equipment, so that it can be provided immediately, and not after half a year or a year, as the situation is now?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e190	There are different reasons why hospitals have not purchased as much equipment this year as the Stortinget originally expected. What is happening now is that we are increasing the income of municipalities and counties. The total free income is rising by up to NOK 2 billion, and that is the strongest increase in free income in very many years. This makes it possible for the county councils, among others. be more involved in financing the purchase of new equipment, in addition to the money that comes directly from the State. And where the Government follows up to the point and dot the equipment plan Stortinget has decided, with the distribution of costs between the states and the state. So there's going to be the money as intended, and we're giving the counties more money to pay their bill. But at the same time, the main challenge is that we have never had more equipment in Norwegian hospitals, never invested more in new equipment in Norwegian hospitals. At the same time, we see that valuable equipment is only used a few hours a day, and it may now be as big a problem as the purchase of new equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e195	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e198	I have the honour to ask a question to the Prime Minister, and I quote from the Evening Post: ‘I read in a newspaper that someone in the NHO thought that we can’t cut all business leaders over one comb just because one was baptized. I believe many of them are in a coma." The quotation is from our foreign minister, a member of the government of Stoltenberg. My question to Jens Stoltenberg is, Is this a quote in which he can agree? Is it the government of Stoltenberg's view of Norwegian business leaders that they are in a coma, as Jagland says they are?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e210	I do not understand that the intention of what Foreign Minister Jagland said was to say that all Norwegian business leaders are in a coma. I think everyone understands that. What I see as his message was that for many business leaders have too little understanding of the social responsibility they have to assume in relation to management wages, options and unreasonable increases in income for managers in Norwegian business. That was the message in what he said at the AUF national meeting, and it's a message that I have the impression that a large majority here in the Stortinget share.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e217	What is problematic about such a play is that it may have to be interpreted in one direction, and I think it is very unclear when one looks up at the signals that one through the state budget gives to Norwegian business leaders. Then I would like to remind Prime Minister Stoltenberg that most business leaders actually have a salary of perhaps 500 000 kroner and downwards, that most business leaders are business leaders in small and medium-sized enterprises – where part of the burden lies. The signal given by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in this lecture is strong against all those who are trying to keep employment up in Norway. I want Prime Minister Stoltenberg to respond to whether the government's signals from the government's government budget, among other things, in relation to the short-term tax and VAT on travel life, which go especially beyond the districts, combined with this outing from Jagland, give a particular amount of hope and faith that the government Stoltenberg wants to invest in business, and not only on the big businesses with the high rents, but on all the tens of thousands of people across the country who are struggling and trying to live by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e224	: This government wants to invest in business. We have had outstanding strong growth in private enterprises, in employment and production in Norwegian enterprises, both small, medium-sized and large, and we want to continue this in 2001. We have provided a budget that will continue to generate growth in private Norwegian enterprises – small, medium-sized and large. All that is good, and all that we want. At the same time, what we have said is that in order to help avoid, or at least reduce the risk of further increase in interest rates, and in order to maintain a price and wage growth in Norway that is higher than in our neighbouring countries and thus also undermines the basis for industrial activity, not least in competitive businesses, we want to dampen some of the growth – not downgrade but dampen growth – in the private sector. This is what we are doing to ensure the basis for Norwegian enterprises, and it is a reflection that is entirely in line with what the Bondevik government presented in the autumn of 1998, where they also proposed a variant of short-term economic tax and other general tax measures to curb private sector growth. That's where we're inspired by the center.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e231	There will be follow-up questions – Lars Sponheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e234	I understand that the Prime Minister does not believe that Norwegian business leaders are in a coma, and after having seen the Focus programme yesterday on a former Labour Party Council and LO Vice President, the term ‘to be in a coma’ also has a new content – so I understand that. To the state budget and fiscal policy: the Prime Minister is a capable social economist, and he said in a similar Question Time in ours that perhaps the most important task of fiscal policy is to share resources between the public sector and the private sector. I think that's very true. What I want to ask the Prime Minister for is to confirm that the fiscal policy he now stands for, which has been put forward through the State budget, is an active allocation of resources from the competitive sector to the public sector, such as in particular. His own Minister of Economic Affairs has pronounced in a meeting in Bergen. There are many travel businesses that will have great difficulty because of VAT and the new employer's fee, and that can only be reduced if they do not. It's just to push the workforce over. Can an honest and good social economist and Prime Minister confirm that this is the purpose of fiscal policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e241	The President must remember that additional questions should be related to the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e245	It did.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e252	No, I can't confirm it. I tried to say in my previous answer that it's about limiting growth. It's still going to be growth in the private sector. When we talk about the private sector, it is both those who compete with the rest of the world and that part of the private sector that is not in direct competition with the rest of the world. And in line with the former Minister of Industry Sponheim said and proposed in the 1999 state budget, we say that when there is high growth, risk of high cost increases, we must also slow down growth, keep a little back in the private sector. Sponheim proposed to increase the corporate tax rate on all Norwegian companies from 28 to 29 pst. without any compensation, he proposed a separate business cycle tax on construction investments, and he proposed a forced saving for all Norwegian companies. This idea is exactly the same as we now have in trying to slow down the growth of the private sector – not build down, but slow down growth – in order to be able to clear up space for bets on things that are also important for Norwegian business, namely that we have a good school, a good health care system and a good care for the elderly. There I believe that the Centre and the Workers' Party think very much. Also in the case of tourism tax, we suggest that the central government announced in the national budget last autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e261	There will be another follow-up question – Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e264	Foreign Minister Jagland has also said that he is deeply concerned about Norway's reputation abroad, and as far as I understand it, Prime Minister Stoltenberg is also committed to drawing a positive picture of Norway abroad. When the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that Norwegian business leaders – it could be interpreted as cutting everyone over one comb – are in a coma, what is the desire to invest in and trade with Norway that creates businesses in other countries? At the same time, as far as I have understood, he said that the undersigned – the head of the largest opposition party – is also in constant ‘kama’. Is there anything the Prime Minister agrees with? It might be nice to know if the Prime Minister also thinks that I am in a coma, so that we know what kind of picture is also drawn from political Norway abroad. If the business leaders are in a coma, and the leader of the largest opposition party – the largest of the polls at the moment – is also in a coma, isn't that the picture you want to draw of a country?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e271	I'm a little uncertain about how important it is for Stortinget to hear my assessments of the health status of Carl I. Hagen and of Norwegian business leaders, but to the extent that it can calm Hagen, I believe he's not in ‘kakama’ nor in coma. [[muttering in the hall]] I consider Carl in Hagen as – what to say – a good political opponent with whom I appreciate discussing, and I look forward to many debates on more important issues than whether he is in a coma.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e276	The President finds out that time has come to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e279	My question goes to the Prime Minister. Once again, we have received a shock card on the state of the Norwegian defence. It turns out that pilots are now put on the ground, simply because the defense doesn't have enough petrol – 15 out of 30 at Bodø's main airfield are put on the ground. Obviously, this creates frustration. People will stop. And this is nothing new. We heard this summer that there were no sharp shots at the armory, and we know that the spare parts, ammunition and fuel stocks are being used up. In the Western world, we have suffered a little bit from the Russian North Fleet, which has no fuel to sail. But I think we can swallow those smiles in us – the situation in us is very serious. What has the Government done with this very serious situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e288	What the Government has done, and what the Defence implements, is that within the budgets adopted in the Grand Duchy, both last year's harvest for this year and through the revision of the budget that took place for the current year, where substantial additional appropriations were made for the international activities of the Defence Agency, defence has given freedom to redispatch within those limits. And then we have proposed a defence budget for 2001, which the Stortinget now has to deal with. So within those limits, there is room for some disposals, for example. to take account of the sharp increase in fuel prices to which the Defence has been subject, in line with other Norwegian enterprises. Priority has been given to pilots in international service or carrying out international missions on behalf of Norway, at least not being hit by restrictions and cuts — as far as possible. Therefore, they have received training and activity so that they can carry out missions under the agreements concluded by Norway in relation to international commitments, in particular to the NATO alliance. With regard to the use of emergency stocks, the Defense itself believes that what has been done there is entirely within what is sound in relation to the requirements that are now being put into stock in a modern defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e295	If you want to rewrite the Prime Minister's reply to Norwegian, it means that the Government has done nothing special. This is a very serious situation, as it seems the Government is not now willing to take an active hand in. The Prime Minister spoke about what to do in the budget framework, as it is called. One of the problems is that, over the years, the Labour Party has been involved in budgetary frameworks that have forced this very difficult situation. My question to the Prime Minister is: does he not see that the Labour Party's budgetary policy over many years is one of the main causes of this very difficult situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e302	I believe that the main challenge for defence, as in many other parts of the public sector, is that it goes too slowly with the renewal. There is no doubt that the conversion that Norwegian defence should have carried out much earlier in the 1990s has gone much slower than intended and much slower than what should have happened. That's why we have a defence that's too expensive to operate, which has an old-fashioned structure, and where too much of the money goes with the administration and financing of a non-timely structure. That's why the most important thing we're going to do now in terms of defence, getting a much better organization, and renewing the public sector, including the defence. There we have announced quite large and comprehensive measures in the near future, and the exciting thing is to what extent it is possible to have a majority for that type of proposal, which will obviously be unpopular in the short term, but which over time will be the best way to strengthen Norwegian defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e307	There will be follow-up questions – Hans J. Røsjorde.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e311	I am surprised to hear that the Prime Minister is satisfied with the state of stockpiles and preparedness stocks for the Norwegian defence. I therefore allow myself to ask one fundamental question: Is the Prime Minister fully familiar with the state of ammunition, in the case of fuel supplies, and in the case of spare parts for our main weapon systems? Is he aware of the low degree of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e316	I rely on the information I get from the Ministry of Defence. I haven't even inspected all the warehouses. What I am told by the Ministry of Defence is that there has been a reduction in stockpiles over several years, but that you believe it is sound, among other things. on the basis of an assessment of a new defence structure, a new time compared to the assessment of the threat picture and that the defence does not consider the situation to be dramatic. But then I'd like to add that in all the challenges that defence is facing, both in terms of the challenges of increased fuel costs, the number of flight hours for pilots, warehouses and other things, this is fundamentally linked to the fact that we've done too little with the main problem, namely that we have a far too old-fashioned structure, a far too over-managed defence. That's what we're now trying to do, in line with the government's declared public sector renewal objective. We're going to come back to that badly, and we're looking forward to getting broad support from all the defense friends in the Norwegian Grand Prix.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e323	Let's do one more follow-up question – Ingvald Godal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e326	The Prime Minister is quite right that the modernisation of the Norwegian defence has gone too slowly. But it came, among other things. because the Labour Party here in the house has accepted the necessary proposals for conversion, for district policy reasons, as late as last spring. My question goes on with this with the warehouse. The aviation gasoline stock is now biting down almost completely. What kind of impression does the Prime Minister think of our allies that the oil nation of Norway no longer has anything left of its own stocks in this area, but is totally dependent on what else has stored in Norway, especially the United States?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e333	I rely on what I get from the Ministry of Defence, and there is the assessment that it is not correct that the stocks are almost empty for key emergency products such as ammunition, fuel – that includes oil – and important spare parts. In that I add that, first of all, it's not true that the stocks are almost empty, and second, that the situation is not dramatic. That doesn't necessarily mean that we're satisfied with the situation, on the contrary, we've stated that in many areas there are gaps and problems in defence. So it's like, in many other sectors – we started talking about health services earlier in the Questionnaire – about money, but it's also very much about organisation. There the defense itself has stated that there is an urgent need for something to happen soon, and we have announced that the proposal will come in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e338	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e341	My question also goes to the Prime Minister. Yesterday, 17 October, the UN International Day for the Elimination of Poverty was marked. In recent times, the Prime Minister has seen the search for poverty in Norway, and especially at the Folkehelsa's demonstration of 70,000 poor children. In the case of poor children, there may be delays, omissions, exclusions and insecurity. There are not poor children without poor adults. It means low income over time, which means for some a drug problem or a mental problem in the family. It is decisive with rapid follow-up, that the individual child has someone to go to, it's about caring as a neighbor and a fellow human being, but it's also about the local authorities' situation and their ability to intervene early. Does the Prime Minister see that with the budget he is helping to exacerbate the local authorities' ability to follow up?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e350	I don't see that at all. What I see is that we have a promise for Norwegian municipalities that are historically large. We're increasing the income of the municipalities by 5 billion kroner. In addition, they are compensated for increased teacher pay and increased holiday days, so that we talk about a total of DKK 3.5 billion on top of it – DKK 8.5 billion. It is significantly more than the government suggested when Meltveit Kleppa was in government. They compensated for this, for example. not for income-fixed in 1998 — a major cause of financial problems for municipalities. But I fully agree with the representative that it is important to focus on poverty in Norway. We are doing things in the budget in relation to single dependants, who are getting better, we are spending massively on housing, more than in a very long time – it is important for many poor people – and we are also engaged in labour market measures. We know that inequality is very often linked to the labour market, that this is about people we have to help into the labour market, and therefore labour market measures are a bridge for many poor people to a situation where they can live on their own income. But that the municipal scheme should be a scheme in which we are thus weakening the possibilities to help the poor, I deeply disagree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e357	There is a discrepancy between the Prime Minister’s performance and the current situation in the individual municipality. The municipalities have incurred expenditure in the course of 2000 and will be charged in 2001 in excess of the revenue collected from the Government. This means that the principal municipalities should have had in relation to previous follow-up when it comes to school, health centre, support training, support contact, stimulation of voluntary organisations, etc., are reduced instead of being increased to next year. The government has followed up the consultation arrangements with the municipalities' own partner organisation, KS, and they have become aware that there is a large and increasing debt for the municipalities, which is thus being incurred in addition to new expenditure. It's a paradox that the situation is so different in the individual municipality and in the government. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e362	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e365	I think we should all be concerned about being a little humble about how to help poor people in Norway, and how to help municipalities improve their ability to do so. I would like to contribute to a dialogue between the Workers' Party, the Government and the Centre on how we can do even more for poor people and even more to help municipalities. But at the same time, I believe that you need to keep up a little to present it as a strict arrangement for the municipalities, while it used to be better. There is no doubt that the municipalities had very tight years, especially in 1998 and 1999, including: because the central government did not allow it to compensate for a very costly wage settlement while it is currently taking place. 5 billion kr in real growth, of which 2 billion kr are free revenues, plus 3.5 billion kr in compensation for increased compensation of employees, is a very solid bet, more than the party of Meltveit Kleppa proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e373	It will be follow-up questions – Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e376	I share Meltveit Kleppa's view of the local economy, in the sense that the reports we receive indicate that the situation next year will be the same as it was this year – that is, no additional lifting. But I am not sure that just improved municipal economy would mean that poverty was effectively combated in Norway. Then I think you have to do something with social help. An important proposal from SV is to establish a national standard for social assistance, which also takes into account the ability of children to participate in activities and to participate in the activities of other children. There are estimates for about how much money it should provide, and what remains is that the Stortinget assumes a responsibility that no children in any municipality will be able to live below the poverty line. We know that the poor will never be in the majority in Norway, but it also makes it difficult to run a political struggle to get the large majority of voters to have it as their prime cause. Will the Prime Minister do something to establish a national standard that prevents children from growing up in poverty in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e385	I fully agree with the representative of Halvorsen that it is important to do something about combating poverty in Norway, and that it is no less important even if it is a minority that is poor. That is why we said in the government statement that we should now raise the minority. While we abolished the open poverty that hit the majority of the population in the last century, we must now ensure that we abolish the hidden poverty, or the new poverty, that affects a minority of the population. Then there are many measures, because that poverty is multiple. One measure is to look at guidelines and how we pursue social assistance policies. For this reason, the Government is now considering proposals from the Stortinget which were addressed in the context of the education notification to address the issue of national social assistance standards, including how children are treated in the context of the provision of social assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e390	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e393	Then I can just stay standing. I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question about gas power plants. In the Monday newspaper, Group Director Christian Rynning-Tønsen in Statkraft says that the development of wind turbines, new hydropower and heat pumps is more important than the construction of gas power plants, and that there is no natural law to build gas power plants in Norway. On the contrary, he says: «Norway as a gas nation shall be careful to have too high gas energy expectations in European power generation over the next few years. The reason is that there is so much nuclear power and coal power that is cheaper to use than gas.’ I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he insists on the urgent need to build gas power plants in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e405	What is urgent is to reduce Norway’s dependence on imports of Rynning-Tonnesen, i.e. coal and nuclear power. I believe that there is no point in the fact that the power generation of Norway now increasingly year after year depends on importing strong, highly polluting power from our neighbouring country, while obviously we have problems using gas for power generation itself. I think that's a much bigger environmental problem, which it's urgent to do something about. Then I want us to be able to use gas in the most environmentally friendly way possible. That is why we have increased the appropriations for research and development in so-called CO2-free gas power plants. If we succeed in that, I have the impression that everyone is a trailer of a gas power plant. While we're waiting for it, or while we're researching even more environmentally friendly gas power plants, the question is, what do we do? So there's a minority in the Biggest that we'd rather be importing coal and nuclear power, while a majority have thought that it's better that we use gas for power generation with traditional technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e412	Kristin Halvorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e415	Now it's probably the case that no special force has been imported in recent years, and it's related to how much it rains in Norway over a year, and how summer weather is around in the whole country. But it also depends on what kind of power you add up to in the years to come. Norway is thus a sinking country in many areas of new renewable energy, for example. we are far from Sweden in terms of the use of heat pumps, not only in public but also in private buildings, investment in new renewable energy, wind turbines, etc. The gas power issue is not any matter for this government, it is the matter that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg came into the government offices, and that has led to a significantly worse climate, not only globally, but also in the relationship between the centre parties, SV and the Workers' Party. Isn't it time for the Prime Minister to calm down his gas power, change his focus and not run the rat race that is now set up, but rather bets on new renewable energy and new alliances?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e420	It's absolutely right that how much we import, and maybe even export a few years, depends on how much it rains. There is a slight difference of opinion in Norway, and therefore the import demand is also variable. However, in years of average rainfall, or so-called normal rainfall, Norway has now become a significant importer of power. So in every year of normal rainfall, or less than normal, we import a lot of coal power. It's only this year with a lot of rainfall, like this year, that we're in balance or exporting. But we cannot base Norwegian energy policy on the fact that it always rains «to the normal» a lot. At least it is not a sustainable energy policy. So we have to deal with normal numbers or averages, and then Norway is the importer of power. I'm a very fan of windmills, and I'm very attached to alternative energy, so we've also increased the funding for research on it. In addition, we have proposed increasing the power price. It's not always as popular, but it's perhaps the most effective alternative energy response.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e427	There will be follow-up questions – Gunnar Kvassheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e430	The Prime Minister says that there is a hurry to get the highly polluting gas power plants. Now we know that the price is so that they hardly come before in ten years. It might give an indication of the progress of matters that this government is in a hurry to do. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he agrees with the price picture that is the background for one to think it will be many years before these polluting gas power plants can be built. At the Sola in Rogaland, a gas power plant is now planned to replace power generation in the North Sea, and it appears to be a good environmental project, if it can be combined so that the plant being built in Rogaland takes care of CO2 and reinjects it or otherwise exploits this resource. Does the Prime Minister agree that it should be the responsibility of the authorities to stimulate such clean solutions and not optimise conditions for conventional, highly polluting gas power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e436	It is urgent to stimulate even more environmentally friendly gas technologies. That is why the Government has proposed a sharp increase in the allocation to that very thing. In addition, the urgent need is to reduce total greenhouse gas emissions. It is therefore urgent to reduce the dependence of Norway on importing coal from our neighbouring countries, in all years of normal or average rainfall. That's what's urgent. In terms of the price picture, I believe that the collapse and government should always be very careful to have a good sense of how power prices and the power market develop in the years to come. What we're going to do is create a framework and conditions that make it more profitable to develop more environmentally friendly power generation and less profitable to use environmentally harmful power generation. That is why we say that any Norwegian gas power plant should be aligned with our climate obligations, and be in line with the Kyoto agreement. So we say we have to buy emission allowances. Then we're talking about hundreds of millions of dollars in expenditure, and it's going to strongly stimulate the development of even more environmentally friendly technology, and that's why we're a follower of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e443	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e446	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Transport. The NSB has decided that Finnish station should be unmanned from New Year, and the reason is that 80 pst. by travellers, they buy tickets at other stations. But this will have dramatic consequences for the Finnish community. Fine station is located on a track with extreme weather conditions and is therefore not like all other railway stations. The NSB has a monopoly on all communications to this society, built up by and around the NSB. There are many unexplained consequences for passengers, for the handling of goods and especially for safety. If a train disaster occurs where staff have to perform an evacuation, one depends on having a headquarters station, a station with a throttle that knows the systems. And we know that there is often a stop on Bergensbanen, the train is standing, and then there is a need for supply. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think that only the business economic assessments should be at the bottom of such an assessment, or does he agree with me that the Finnish situation is so special that other assessments need to be made, so that one can still have crews at Finnish station?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e457	It is quite clear that, in the case of the NSB, there are many other considerations than the purely business-economy that need to be taken into account for the whole of the business, and it is not least important for specific parts of the business, such as for example. Finnish. I also agree that as far as the Finnish station is concerned, there are special challenges to be faced, and I can promise the representative Vihoved that I will go deeper into the issue of Finland. I want to clarify the causes and background of the arrangements that NSB has, and consider them in relation to the considerations that one else has to take from a concrete assessment in relation to Finland.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e462	I am very pleased with the answer given by the Council of State. In winter I had a question hour. I was in the capacity of Bergensbanen, and then the council replied that there was a freight handling of bicycles and skis, and that it was important that one of them had a system. This also goes into the handling of goods, because there will be great consequences for the handling of goods if you don't have staff at the station. The only way to get goods up to Finland without a helicopter is with the railroad, and I believe the council agrees with me that the helicopter is not a good alternative. I hope then that the Council of State has a good dialogue with the NSB, and that this resolves so that one can still have that crew. I would like to remind you that Stortinget's rights are NOK 1 billion to the NSB for the purchase of services. It also has to be part of that assessment, because we're starting to get a little bit worried about how NSB uses these funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e469	The points of view related to the Finnish station I take with me. In the case of purchases of services, there is a different assessment, since the Bergensbanen, at least in the case of the whole route, is a so-called commercial route. But I take with me the views expressed by the representative here, in the assessments to be made on the specific issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e474	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e477	I will ask Terje Moe Gustavsen the following questions: As you know, in recent times it has been quite turbulent around NSB, with several closed stations on several sections of the track. This has meant that the users of the train have remained standing without an alternative offer. It has also caused problems that timetables that would actually be valid until January next year have been changed along the way so that travellers with old timetables have remained on the platform; the waiting room has also been closed many places. What will the Council of State do to improve this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e484	I am afraid that the list of issues presented here by the representative Steinsaker can be made longer. It says something about the NSB being in a situation of major problems, and the main reason why you're there, is that the NSB has over time arranged a larger offer than there have been resources for. In the summer we thought that this was a temporary problem, among other things. related to the summer holiday settlement. It turns out that this is a permanent problem, and it has led to major disruptions in operation that have affected passengers. It is obvious that the offer needs to be reduced in order to gain control of the operation. And I assume that it happens in a way that damages passengers in total the least, and that you can have a proper service on the part of the business you have to operate, in a proper way. Where you remove an offer, I assume that alternative offers are put in place to minimise the damage. So the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to have a new rule in place for the NSB. And the most important task of a new government is to re-establish the trust of the NSB, among other things. by making realistic plans for the business that can provide people with the service they require and expect. And that's the absolutely essential prerequisite for improving the situation and through the secure future of the NSB, for the future of the NSB is that people experience having, and getting, a good offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e491	I thank the Council of State for the answer. So far, the NSB has had exclusive rights to passenger transport on and along the track. When the situation is as it is, will the Council of State also look at that exclusive right, so that other companies are also allowed to carry passengers by bus where the NSB does not have an offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e498	I feel that these are two questions. One is a question of exclusive rights on the track, and the other is a question of alternative forms of transport. In the case of exclusive rights on the track, I believe that the NSB should continue to have exclusive rights in the case of passenger transport. It has, among other things, the fact that large parts of our network are single-track and have safety aspects that must be taken into account. But we should allow companies other than the NSB where the NSB is no longer operating. In the national transport plan we also warn that we want to soften the concession policy for express buses, even where express buses compete with trains. But I want to stress that we want to continue the concession requirement. In other words, it is also a question that is being addressed in this house and on which we will be clarified when handling the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e508	There will be follow-up questions – Thore Aksel Nistad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e511	NSB receives 980 million. kr in subsidies – or purchases of services – as you also call it. Then we have a well-run bus company called Nor-Way Bus Express. They're running a lot of long-distance routes around. They're not getting anything. Why is it so necessary for the Workers' Party to cling to the old socialist thinking that state operations are to be maintained at all costs, when we have an organization that is willing to drive buses country and beach around without receiving a single penny from the state? The users are also satisfied with buses.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e518	Here we're talking about two very different markets. With regard to our purchase of services from the NSB, it is primarily about local public transport and regional routes intercity. In the case of express buses, it means largely over longer distances and through it on a different basis. This is not about state-run or not, it is about whether we want a well-functioning collective system in and around the larger cities. If we want to, we need to get it through the purchase of services and through transfers to county councils and municipalities, so that we can get a price level that people can live with. So we want to do both – we still want to buy services, and as I mentioned in my reply to Stensaker, we also want to stimulate further use of express buses.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e523	Jorunn Ringstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e526	As the Council of State said in its previous reply, the NSB has clearly committed to overproduction in relation to the capacity available, both on personnel and on materials. What's important is that the options we get now are as short-lived as possible and that only temporary settings and closures will be available. Can the Council of State today say that only temporary closures and conversions are involved? And can the Council of State say anything about how long this will be? It's clear that the longer that time period becomes, the more people will find other ways to travel, and it'll be worse to get them back to the NSB. And one last question: is there any strategy put in place to get these passengers back to the NSB when NSB has had time to make a setup that is compatible with the material situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e535	I would like to answer this question by pointing out that a similar question has been asked in the ordinary Question Time – but I would like to continue. Then I would like to stress the following: there are no road sections due to the temporary measures. The measures are temporary! How long will the temporaryity last, I don't know. That's one of the problems we're facing. The planning has been too poor to know. It's a task for the board and the administration. With regard to the future of some of these sections of railway lines, we have announced in the national transport plan that it is appropriate to consider whether to operate some routes by train. That assessment must and shall be independent of this temporary situation and will, if appropriate, be relevant in the context of negotiations for the purchase of services from 2002. I assume that the NSB will develop passenger recovery strategies at the end of the temporary period. It's practically their job.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e544	Inge Myrvoll – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e547	If there could be any comfort to the Council of State, we could say that if the questioning of Stensaker's railway policy had gone through, the Council of State would not have had any problems with the operation of the railway, because then the railway would have been closed too far. One thing is to solve the temporary problems, which may take some time, something else is to say that the NSB is going to try to win back customers and have a strategy for it. But I wonder if the department has a strategy to win customers for the railroad. Because when I see that we are now going to have VAT on rail services, without compensation, and in public purchases of services we are not making any kind of compensation in relation to price increases etc., that means that the government's public purchases of rail services are actually going to be greatly reduced in the future. In other words, if the NSB is to act in competition, it will have to increase prices or reduce the offer. Can it not lead to a weakening of the railway, so that it is not just about the NSB having to do a job, but also about the government having to do a job in relation to winning trust and winning customers?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e557	The President would like to stress that polemics with other respondents should not occur.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e560	It was just a fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e565	First, let me point out that in the national transport plan there is a broad commitment to infrastructure — rail — in Norway. It is also the case that, in the 2001 draft budget, we are setting rates for the development of routes, both by providing measures to improve freight transport and by tilting trains. In the case of VAT, we will introduce compensation schemes in relation to local and regional traffic so that this does not lead to an increase in ticket prices. Moreover, the effect of VAT on VAT will be marginal compared to a low rate of VAT and a full deduction. When it comes to the purchase of services, we've passed this on to the nominal level. We think it's the right bet, because it's also right and necessary, for example. when the NSB is given new material, that it is able to streamline some of its activities and that this does not result in an increase in prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e573	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e576	The question is addressed to Councillor Terje Moe Gustavsen. In June, it became clear that the driver situation in the NSB caused major problems in the implementation of the route offer during the holiday phase. We've heard of that. Ueland had to leave. In October, there was a new round of hopeless driver situations, now with a strong reduction in route provision, and the board went. How does the Council of State view the situation now, and how can this situation be resolved? And the question is, who is responsible for training enough drivers, and what is done to improve this recruitment?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e587	It is true, as the representative Kofoed-Larsen says, that in the summer it became clear that there were serious problems with the holiday settlement. At that time, we thought that this was primarily due to a new arrangement for the 2000 holiday settlement, and that it was therefore a temporary problem. In October, the information found that this was a permanent problem, that, to put it simply, about 5 pst was missing. of the personnel resources necessary to implement 100 pst. production – so you have people for 95 pst. production. And so at least one driver is required per. Train! And when you don't have it, reductions will have to be necessary to get control of the operation. The NSB has started further training of drivers. The capacity is now, as far as I know, doubled, but normal driver training takes 18 months. As a result, it will take time for this to occur in trained drivers. As far as responsibility for this is concerned, it is clearly the responsibility of the company. The NSB has the freedom under the BA Act, the freedom to make sure that its resources and duties are available to enable it to carry out the tasks it undertakes. It is a responsibility both for the management of the company and for the management of the company. When the board dismissed the chairman of the group in the summer, it was related to the fact that the board was not satisfied with the management of the administration. When I found it necessary to change the board in October, it was because this turned out to be a permanent problem. It is, to me, a manifest board of directors, and that then led to the need to change the board. First of all, I want to make sure that a new government is brought together.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e600	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. I expect that this education offer is a good safety offer, and that you don't look at any shorter educational variants to improve on the capacity problem right now. But can the Council of State say if there is any marketing in relation to recruiting drivers, for example in cooperation with secondary schools or other places of study?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e607	It's obvious that you shouldn't go on chords with security. This will be provided by the Railway Agency. The Railway Agency is responsible for approving the training of drivers. How it is to be arranged, so I leave it safely to the Railway Agency, which is otherwise under the system supervision of the Railway Authority. When it comes to recruitment, I'm not familiar with, technically, how to apply for what I think you call trainees, but it's in no way claimed that you have problems getting access to applicants. And that, after all, is all that matters in relation to the resource situation. Then the company gets to work on the question of how best to search for drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e614	The President points out that the regulatory time for the oral questioning process is soon over, but Oddvard Nilsen has the next main question. The representative can now decide whether he will have a main question or an additional question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e617	I'll take additional questions. It is almost incredible to hear how to try to eliminate almost a disaster in the absence of drivers in this country. It is incredible, incomprehensible, that you set up a train production in this country and do not check if you have drivers! It is absolutely incredible, and so the Council of State says that this he leaves in full confidence in the future of the NSB and the Railway Agency! They've turned out to be completely incompetent to do that. My question to the Council of State is this: Will he make sure that we have enough leaders in this country, and when will that happen? And will he arrange for others to take over the education if the NSB and the Railway Agency do not prove to be competent to do the job, as they until now have shown?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e626	There's no attempt to explain. There is an analysis of the situation and a finding that this is a matter that the company itself has and must deal with, not least because it has gained autonomy by decision in this house. There are even people who think that independence is too small. When it comes to how to get drivers in the future, it's a clear responsibility for a new government. And I'm reasonably sure that with the attention that this has had, with the premise that it is to change control, the attention to that question will be very large and good enough to make sure that it is made the maximum out of the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e633	The time for the oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e638	In view of the high number of questions to be answered, the President finds it necessary to inform him, on the basis of Section 53 of the Rules of Procedure. The last three paragraphs have decided that only one supplementary question will be given after the main question has been answered. This is considered necessary for the completion of the current map within the scheduled time of the morning meeting. There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Odd Einar Dørum to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment. At the request of the Minister for the Environment, this question is moved and answered before question 31, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 3, from the representative of Kristin Halvorsen to the Minister of Finance, will be answered by the Minister of Social Affairs who directs him. The question will be raised by the representative of Øystein Djupedal. Question 14, from the representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli to the Minister for Health, lapses, as the questioner is not present. Questions 16 and 17 from the representatives of Hanne Dyveke Søttar Hagen and Ågot Valle, respectively, to the Minister for Culture, are relocated and answered at the request of the Council of State to answer questions 41, i.e.: at the end of the Questionnaire. Question 28, from the representative of Rolf Rekvam to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by the representative of Inge Myrvoll. Questions 29 and 30, from the representative Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has been removed. Question 32, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, who has been removed. Question 37, from the representative of Ågot Valle to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs who will direct him. At the request of the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, this question is moved and answered in response to question 9, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 38, from the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 40, from the representative Rolf Rekvam to the Minister for the Church, Education and Research, lapses, as the questioner is not present. Question 41, from the representative Kristin Halvorsen to the Minister for Church, Education and Research, will be addressed by the representative Helge Bjørnsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e671	Question 1, as adopted, will be answered before question 31. The first question to be answered after these changes is Question 2 from Mr H. Langeland to the Minister for Finance
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e679	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Finance: The «For the welfare country» action was launched by the trade union movement and currently brings together organisations with around 950,000 members. The action ‘refers to the globalisation of the economy based on the liberalisation, deregulation and free movement of capital’ and ‘requires action against the speculative economy and limiting the enormous power position of multinational companies’. Is the purpose of the action agreed by the Council of State and, where appropriate, what initiatives will the Council of State take to follow up on this objective?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e688	Capital transactions across regions and borders have their origins in trade relations and therefore have long historical roots. In most industrialised countries, there are now almost free movements of capital. In addition to the reduction of capital restrictions, the rapid development of communication technologies and new financial instruments has contributed to the increase in capital flows. Through the accession to the OECD Capital Code and the OECD Service Code, Norway has undertaken to work towards the abolition of restrictions on capital movements and the provision of services between Member States. The general rule is that Member States are also obliged not to impose new, permanent restrictions on capital movements or trade in certain services, including financial services. Trade liberalisation and liberalisation of capital flows have been motivated in particular by the benefits that economic integration can bring. For most countries, including Norway, access to export markets and foreign investment has been crucial for economic growth and development. On the other hand, experience has shown that rapid liberalisation of capital flows in countries with weak financial institutions could increase the risk of financial crises. A financial and monetary crisis could put economic developments in a country back several years in time. This is the speed, among other things: countries in Latin America in the 1980s and in Asia in the 1990s. These crises underline the importance of establishing systems to prevent international financial crises. The government attaches great importance to contributing constructively to stabilising financial and currency markets. Several initiatives have been taken to reform the international financial institutions and to improve the functioning of financial markets. Norway itself is well advanced in the implementation of international supervisory and regulatory standards in the financial sector. The Government is committed to actively working in the international forums for joint actions that can limit and prevent financial crises. Many of the monetary crises that have arisen, among others: However, in countries with emerging economies, there has been a link between economic policies that have not been sustainable. To a large extent, it will be up to countries themselves to pursue an economic policy that provides confidence in financial markets. Norway can contribute by providing advice on economic policy through our participation in the IMF and the World Bank. At the UN General Assembly Special Session in Geneva in June on the follow-up to the Social Summit, several countries put forward proposals to take action to prevent or mitigate the negative effects of speculative cross-border capital movements. A proposal from Canada was to further investigate the impact of a charge on currency transactions, including the potential benefits and disadvantages of such a charge. There are several issues that need to be resolved before a charge on foreign exchange transactions can be imposed. However, the Government considers that an investigation into the issue of global taxation of currency transactions should be carried out. On this basis, Norway supported Canada’s proposals. The EU also supported the proposal, while the United States and Japan went against it. Multinational companies play an important role in investments and transfers of technology across borders. At the same time, they involve a strong concentration of capital, which may also mean significant market power. The key instrument to prevent individual companies from exploiting this market power is a framework in which they are exposed to real competition. Furthermore, a competition monitoring must be carried out in the absence of compliance with the rules of the game. It is also necessary to have stock and accounting legislation which provides adequate transparency for the authorities and the general public. Through OECD cooperation, we have been involved in establishing guidelines for multinational companies. These are standards aimed at preventing companies from exploiting their power position in host countries to offer lower labour standards, not to take environmental considerations, to participate in corruption, etc. Developments in these areas are followed up by OECD authorities. In the view of the Government, the reduction of trade barriers and capital movements across national borders are a necessary condition for economic development. However, developments must take place in controlled forms. The government emphasises the continuation of cooperation in international organisations to ensure that developments take place within a secure framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e716	I thank the Council of State for your answer. As I interpret the answer, he actually says that one does not support the ‘For the welfare state’ action. I would like to have it confirmed with a yes or no to the question I asked. I have a couple more challenges. The working party and trade unionists have our synonyms, at least in the past. It seems that that time is now over, by the policy that you put up by the Norwegian government when it comes to the welfare state issue. But one challenge in relation to international trade is: Will the Government, through e.g. the massive resources available to the oil fund, are able to participate in and participate in the development of a trade fair internationally, in order to speed up the work on minimum wages and standards? And: Can one, through the investments made with the oil fund, be a crutch just to do so by setting investment requirements, which one to now does not want?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e723	If the representative of Langeland asks whether the Government rejects a globalisation of the economy based on liberalisation, deregulation and the almost free flow of capital, then the obvious answer is no. And that's also the situation for a close co-consistent overall, with a possible exception for SV – I have also not registered that SV has been against having a strong export industry in Norway. The counter-question that naturally arises is: Does the representative Langeland think it was wrong that the construction of Norsk Hydro took place using foreign capital? Was it wrong that the construction of the oil industry in Norway took place in the 1970s using foreign capital? Is it so that e.g. Norwegian fishing exports shall be made to a limited number of markets? Or do we want to get a freer opportunity to export to a larger number of markets? The issue raised by the question is whether we want to be able to export from Norway to several other markets, while in principle we believe that this is wrong. The government’s response is that exports and trade relations, and with the free movement of capital, have been crucial to Norway’s welfare level and will also be so for other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e735	This question, from the representative of Kristin Halvorsen to the Minister of Finance, will be answered by the Minister of Social Affairs who directs him. The question will be raised by the representative of Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e738	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘The existence of 70 000 poor children in this country has been documented. The government has recognised this as a problem on several occasions. What concrete action will the Council of State take to eliminate poverty among children in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e747	Folkehelsa has recently concluded that about 70,000 children live in poverty in Norway. It's equal to 6.7 pst. of children aged 0-18 years. The analyses also show that families with children are overrepresented in the long-term low-income group, and many single-parent families have low income over time. Poor is defined in the Public Health Report and the Equalisation Report in relation to those persons with household income below 50 pst. of the median income. The number of poor depends very much on whether you look at the annual distribution of income or at low income over time. Share of poor over time, e.g. fortunately, over a period of five or ten years, the proportion of the poor in a single year is significantly lower. The share will also depend on how household income is weighted in relation to the number of persons in the household. Although the number of poor children may vary in different studies, it is important to stress that this is a problem of which the Government is very concerned. In a country where the vast majority of children are well off, it is important to trap those outside to ensure that all children have a safe and healthy childhood. We need to ensure that our welfare systems and safety nets are suitable for better living conditions for these children. However, it is important to stress that these children are not poor in the traditional sense. They have food, clothes and roof over their heads. Poverty affects these children in the sense that for economic reasons they do not have the opportunity to participate in the same things as other children. This can hit hard in a society with a general high standard of living and strong purchasing pressure, especially against children and young people. So who are the poor kids? One finds most poor children among households where none of the parents are at work and where the children are aged 0-6. Many of these children have parents who are either unemployed, beneficiaries of social assistance or out of work because of illness or disability. In addition, children come from solitary caregivers. Occupational activity among parents is therefore the clear key prerequisite for combating child poverty. We therefore need to facilitate the participation of more people in the labour market. A more human work life will be the main strategy of the Government in our follow-up to the Storting's treatment of the Equalization Communication. Increased opportunities to combine social security and work with job grants for people with reduced working capacity will be relevant measures. We want to introduce an introduction benefit to immigrants linked to the qualification of the labour market, and we want to improve the living conditions of immigrant families. Furthermore, we want to improve the opportunities for training for single dependants, so that they can get better opportunities in the labour market. In addition, we want to make the social welfare and transfer schemes more targeted for families with children. The improvement of the support supplement for disability and old-age pensioners may be a possible measure. Furthermore, in the State budget, we have proposed increased child welfare for lone dependants with one or two children. We will ensure a better financial security for young people, who are seriously ill. This is particularly important for those who support children. For those who have the most difficult childhood families, social assistance is important. It is therefore right to design social assistance to make it more effective at targeting these groups. This is a work we're doing. It is also important to ensure good and safe living conditions for children and families with children. We have therefore proposed an increase in the housing support scheme and are working towards the closure of housing facilities for families with children and lonely young people. We aim to present an action plan on social and economic security in the context of the Government's long-term programme, where these actions will appear as an overall strategy to improve the living conditions of the most disadvantaged. Difficult children and families with children will be an important target group in this work. In addition, the Ministry of Children and Family will present a major report on living conditions among children and young people in Norway. The poor children will be guaranteed a broad space in this message as well, and the issue around them will be addressed in its full scope. However, we need to keep looking at the measures that can improve living and growing conditions for these children. However, I can hardly imagine measures for these children without improving the overall economy of the family.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e773	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Large parts of the post were more general, which it is difficult to disagree with, but some of it was also concrete, and I particularly thank you for that. It is strange that the public debate suddenly reveals that there are 70 000 poor children, while they have been there for a long time. What is also the great paradox for many of us is that a land flowing with milk and honey can allow so many poor families in Norway. I am pleased that the Government intends to propose measures. But some of the questions I'm asking about purely material matters apply, for example. a concrete measure such as the Council of States referred to. Different rates of social assistance are permitted for municipalities. Some municipalities are allowed to bake some of the income such as: children may have, as a newspaperman or whatever, while others subtract it. Someone's taking the child's back, someone's not taking the child's back. The point is that it makes the municipalities themselves the body that actually regulates who is poor and not poor. So just by taking such a simple step that the government adopts national standards as to what a minimum performance should be, they have the opportunity to do something. In all the good measures that the Minister of Social Affairs drew out, this will be one of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e782	I said in my post about the same thing as the Prime Minister said in the oral question procedure, when the representative Halvorsen asked the same question. Social assistance is measured by municipalities. That makes sense because the municipalities have far more opportunity to look at the overall situation, and social assistance will always be the last instance of the security networks we have, and must therefore have some flexibility. As regards work on norms and guidance to municipalities about it, there is a question the Government is working on and will come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e792	We're changing the theme. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘In the Monetary Regulation, the objective of monetary policy is to stabilise Norwegian krone against the single European currency. The euro has now been strong against the euro for a long time. Despite that, the central bank has set up interest rates several times. It may therefore appear that the Government has accepted that the central bank should have a more open position in the exercise of its mandate and thus be able to change the monetary policy objectives. Does the Council of State accept that he should thus not have an influence on the interest rate fixing of the Bank of Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e801	The activities of the Bank of Norway are governed by the Central Bank Act. Under the Central Bank Act, the King of the Council of State decides on the price arrangements for the crown. The current monetary policy guidelines were drawn up in the currency regulation of 6 May 1994. The Monetary Regulation obliges the Bank of Norway to align monetary policy instruments against stability in the value of the krona measured against European currencies. At the same time, the regulation provides for flexibility in the exercise of monetary policy by the absence of a central rate for the krona and associated fluctuation margins and the obligation on the Bank of Norway to intervene. The monetary policy guidelines have always taken into account that the exchange rate of periods may differ from the initial rental. In the event of significant changes in the exchange rate, the guidelines require the Bank of Norway to set up monetary policy instruments with a view to gradually returning the exchange rate to the initial rental. Under Section 2 of the Central Bank Act, the Bank of Norway has an obligation to refer matters of particular importance to the Ministry of Finance before taking a decision. Changes in bank interest rates are considered to be a matter of particular importance. In the law, it goes on to say: «The King of the State Council may decide on the activities of the Bank.» The Administrative Court has never been used. In order to achieve stability in the exchange rate, Norway’s Bank focuses on the basic assumptions for price stability. The establishment of monetary policy instruments is not based on an assessment of inflation prospects alone, but on a broader assessment of the economic situation and outlook for the Norwegian economy. There has been symmetry in the use of instruments in monetary policy. In 1999, Norway’s Bank reduced interest rates in a situation where the krona was clearly weaker than the initial rental, as defined in the currency regulation. The reduction in interest rates was justified on the basis of the conditions of the Norwegian economy and the objective of stability in the krone price over time. Similarly, this year, the Bank of Norway has considered it necessary to set the interest rate, even though the rate of interest has sometimes been slightly higher than the rate of initial rent. To date, Norway’s Bank has increased its signal rates by 1 1⁄2 percentage points this year, so that its inflation rate is now 7pst. At the same time, there has been an international rise in interest rates. The Bank of Norway states that the trend in economic development and the risk profile as the bank now sees it makes it as likely that the next change in interest rates will be a decrease as there will be an increase. The government has regularly briefed the Stortinget on monetary policy guidelines and the Bank of Norway’s exercise of them. A majority in the Grand Duchy has not commented on this. The government does not want a future trend in which strong demand growth in the Norwegian economy must be curbed by a sustained, peculiarly high interest rate. That is why it is so important to reach an agreement in the United Kingdom on a sound budget for 2001 that does not increase the pressure on interest rates.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e825	There's something called not listening to what you're saying, but looking at what you're doing. Well, that's the reality of this case. The finance minister closes his eyes and actually lets the governor operate far more freely than the former governors have done. In all the recent increases in interest rates, the central bank manager has focused on one relationship rather than another, and there has been a relationship with inflation. The reason he has set up the interest rate, at the latest just now before the government budget was presented, has been that inflation has increased. The situation has kind of been a game in which you hope that no one noticed what you actually did, and that through practice over the years you have established a system with a freer central bank than the currency regulation says. My wish is not to instruct the Governor in detail, but it is clear that it must be perceived as very strange. If you go from the currency code, the interest rate should have been set in Norway, not up, as it has been done repeatedly. This is because the Norwegian krona is strong in relation to the euro. My last challenge to the Minister of Finance is this: if the budget does not become as tight as the Minister of Finance wants, and if so, if the interest rate is adjusted, does he see that the Governor of the Bank will then have a little word in his ear from the Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e834	In my answer I showed that there has been symmetry in the use of instruments. In the past, the situation was that the interest rate was reduced despite the fact that the price deviated slightly from the initial rental, so this year there has been symmetrically different, because there have been situations where it has been set up, despite this deviation. I have not registered that the representative Djupedal had negative comments on the exercise of monetary policy by Norges Bank when the interest rate was reduced despite the deviation from the initial rental. I assume that the representative Djupedal then agrees that there must be a symmetry in the use of instruments. On the part of the Government, considerable emphasis has been placed on providing an economic environment for the next year which does not contribute to increasing the pressure in the Norwegian economy and which does not contribute to increasing the pressure on interest rates. I also deeply disagree with the economists who are standing up these days and say that there are young people in Norway who are going to take responsibility for tightening up the Norwegian economy through an interest rate increase. The government has set up an arrangement to avoid increasing the pressure on interest rates. We believe that there should be a great deal of emphasis on this also through the Storting's treatment of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e844	I have to ask the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs the following questions: ‘According to information from Kristiansand Police District, four asylum seekers who came to Norway one month ago have been arrested for theft. The police have now seized large amounts of stolen goods at the premises of these asylum seekers. Does the Council of State mean that such persons should be allowed to stay in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e853	A minority of asylum seekers have been found to be involved in crime. I take that very seriously. Crime among asylum seekers can both undermine the entire institution of asylum, lead to increased fear of alienation and also affect law-abiding asylum seekers and refugees who have a real need for protection. Therefore, I find it seaworthy not that people who come to Norway under the cover of needing protection, but with obviously different purposes, such as: to commit crime, to be few in the country. However, as long as persons seek asylum, we are obliged, in accordance with Norwegian and international rules, to process the application properly. Unfortunately, the length of the procedure for asylum cases has generally been too long in recent years. When the foreign authorities are notified of asylum seekers who have committed criminal offences, their asylum applications will be prioritised for treatment. They must be treated immediately. If the examination of the application shows that the application is manifestly unfounded, the decision, by appeal, shall not have suspensive effect. This means that the applicant may be sent out of the country if the complaint has not been completed. Otherwise, the complainant must be here until the department has dealt with the complaint. New procedures have been put in place between the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice to ensure that the complaint is then given priority in the ministry. However, in some cases it is not possible to make such a rapid decision, as further information on the basis of which the application may be based is needed before a decision can be taken. A key prerequisite for such a prioritisation in such cases is that the foreign authorities are actually notified of asylum seekers committing criminal offences. In this context, we will now consider whether the rules of the Public Prosecutor's Guide on the time when the police are to alert the foreign authorities should be amended in such a way that the obligation to notify is to take effect at an earlier date than is currently the case. It means before a visibility, which in turn means that a review can be sufficient. There are notification procedures in the Directorate for Foreign Affairs between the individual reception and the directorate centrally in this area. But this is also something that can be further improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e864	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was a pleasure that she did not, of course, want criminal asylum seekers in the Kingdom, and something else I had really not expected. But what we had expected from the Progress Party was a better follow-up and better cooperation between the UDI, which is responsible for the questioning of asylum seekers, and the police. The Council of State replied that the prosecution and reporting instructions are important in this respect. Then my question is simple: When can the Storting expect the Government to put into life what the Government said in its main response, and that one will look at this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e873	Let me first say about the specific matter that the representative Kleppe raises, that there is contact between Kristiansand Police Chamber and UDI about it. It has to be clear. With regard to the question I was asked about the assessment we are now in the process of, whether or not the notification should be sufficient, that assessment should be carried out very quickly, and we will ensure that the Storting is informed about it as soon as possible. There can be no doubt that we want to take care of those of our refugees and asylum seekers who need real protection in Norway. It must also be clear that those who do not comply with the laws and regulations in force - most of them - should leave the country and that matters should be dealt with very quickly. But I would also like to say that a minority of our asylum seekers commit crime, which I take very seriously, must not be used to label entire groups of refugees and asylum seekers. I think that's completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e885	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘A Sri Lankan health worker is not granted a residence permit in Norway to be a personal assistant to an MS-framed woman. At the same time, Norway spends millions on recruiting health professionals from other countries. Will the Government submit legislative proposals or interpretative documents allowing for a work permit and residence permit in such cases?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e894	The specific issues raised in the question are now being re-examined in the Ministry of Justice. The reason for this is that his lawyer has now requested the decision of the department and refers to new information on the matter. So I can't go into this single case here and now until it's finished in the department. That is why it is too early for me to say today whether there is a basis for, necessary or desirable to consider legislative proposals or interpretative measures that allow work and residence permits in such cases. Nor are health professionals a uniform group or a unique professional name. Whether individuals outside the EEA can obtain a work permit depends on assessments of each application, where their qualifications are central to the job description requirements. The government will also show that the so-called specialist provision of the foreign regulation was recently softened by the fact that the previous requirement for higher education has now been replaced by requirements for vocational education. The general conditions under which the position cannot be filled by domestic labour or labour from the EEA territory, and that the salary level must be in accordance with Norwegian practice in this field, continue to apply. In addition, I can inform you that the Government will review the labour immigration legislation to see if there is a need for both adjustments and softening of today's legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e907	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have a certain understanding that it is difficult to go into individual matters. But if you look at it in a slightly larger perspective, we'll see for example. in the field from which I have my own background, as a doctor, that in the EEA territory a general authorisation is granted for work in Norway with less requirements of competence than you had before. There had to be a good deal of additional courses in the past to ensure a levelling-off in relation to different disciplines in Norway, social medicine, social security, etc. At the same time, it is almost impossible, if not so, at least very difficult, for others with similar competences outside the EEA area to get work in Norway. For me, and I think a lot of people with me, that frontier rise seems very unreasonable. When skills are needed in Norway, it is necessary to arrive at an approach that allows people to come here and work — an approach that is not determined by whether they belong to the EEA or not, but primarily by the question: Is this a competence that is suitable and sufficient to enable them to work in Norway? Does the Council have any comments on that issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e914	I agree with Mr Ballo that the lack of labour we see in the health and social sector in particular, we have to take it seriously – we take it seriously, and it has to be met in several areas. But it is also in itself seas, I think, a reason that there is a need to go through the legislation in relation to labour immigration to see if it is possible and desirable to do some softenings there. I think that's perfectly obvious, and the government will do that. We're doing it, and we're going to get back to Stortinget with it as soon as possible. Without my being able to deal with, as I said, the matter that is now under consideration, because we cannot do that from the Chair of the Stortinge, it is clear that the legislation we have in this area is being followed. If that legislation is not good enough, it is the legislation that we have to change, and I will consider that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e924	I will ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘A report prepared by Aplan-VIAK for the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs shows that the central east region’s share of state investment over a ten-year period, from 1988 to 1998, has increased from 24 to 64 pst.’ — Here I note that it should be 61 and not 64 pst. – ‘Does the Council of State wish such a development to be strengthened for years to come, or will it take the initiative of a turn for the benefit of other states and regions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e931	The picture drawn by the pattern of state investment, I think, needs to be seen in a slightly larger context, because looking at the state investment in relation to the population, one finds that the picture is a little more balanced. Nevertheless, Oslo and Akershus receive relatively the most state investment. I think it is important to clarify that the high level of state investment in the Central East is mainly due to large national or capital projects such as the United States. extension of the Rikshospitalet, OL at Lillehammer and extension of Gardermoen airport. I also think it is important to find that there have been specific problems with bottlenecks in the infrastructure of the capital city area. For a long time, until 1990, there was little going on with Oslo's road network. Many of the state investment, particularly on the transport front, has contributed to reducing these problems, which is also to the benefit of districts. I think everyone should agree that the whole country needs a capital with good infrastructure. The government is committed to developing robust regions in all parts of the country. How state investment can be used as an instrument to stimulate rural development, I will come back to the next district and regional communication, which I will present to the Stortinge in March/April next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e942	I want to support a good infrastructure in the capital area. At the same time, in the context of a press release in May, the Council of State has stated that the construction activity in relation to all these large projects — several of which have now been completed — has a centralising effect that is alarming. The government, of which it is a member, has subsequently presented both a national transport plan, which strengthens the relationship with centralisation, and a scheme in relation to broadband, where a bet on private solutions – which also does not provide great optimism in the districts. I want to encourage the Council of State to study not only the population but also the value creation that goes on in other states and regions, and the great value it has for the state to participate in investment and planning. There is today a missing context there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e949	Let me first say that I do not agree with the representative of Meltveit Kleppa in the report that is now being given by the National Transport Plan and the action plan in relation to broadband. And when that is said, I would say that I honestly do not believe that there is such a difference between the Workers' Party and the Centre's views in district policy. I don't think there is so much disagreement about what I also pointed out in my first answer, namely that there has been a need for a lot of major development projects that – at least in terms of part of them – have been broad political support for and that are now completed. Then we agree that it is important to make sure that there can be people living in all parts of the country. That's what this government will still add up to. We're going to get back to that in different ways, for example. through the message I was showing instead. I think there's one point among many others that it's important to focus even more on, and that's the government localization policy, where I think we have a lot to pick up on locating more jobs in the districts. And then the Labour Party believes that investing in the regions – but not just that – is one important tool.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e959	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘According to the anti-sampling message, action against the homeless is urgent. What has the Council of State been doing to ensure more in this group both ‘heads’ coming winter and more long-term follow-up with a view to permanent residence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e968	I agree with the representative of Meltveit Kleppa that action is urgent against those who do not have a permanent place to live. I would also like to say right away that I think it is unworthy that in one of the world's richest countries – at least as far as we have statistics – it seems to be over 6,000 people who don't have a say in it, and we want to do something about it. Housing solutions for the homeless and other disadvantaged are a central measure in the action package for a more solidarity housing policy that I presented on behalf of the Government this summer. And there is no doubt that homeless people are a priority group within the housing grant scheme – in fact, it is the most priority group. When submitting applications for projects and housing solutions for these groups, they have the first priority within the housing grant framework and will receive commitments from the House Bank this year. I therefore hope, in line with the representative Meltveit Kleppa, that it will help us to get more housing for the homeless. This year, municipalities were also invited to make housing social action plans where homeless people are a key target group. This work is well under way. The action against the group has been proposed to be followed up and reinforced for the next year. The level of activity of the housing allowance has been proposed to increase by 152 million. NOK 641 million. kr. The increase is over 30 pst. and may provide from 750 to 1000 more housing solutions to disadvantaged next year than is the case this year. The government's commitment to measures against the homeless is also reflected in the Social Minister's draft budget. There it's proposed set aside $15 million. kr to activation measures for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance and measures for the homeless. Six million. This appropriation is intended to cover development measures for the homeless in the major cities, and the House Bank has been asked to give priority to this work. As regards the longer-term measures, cooperation with municipalities has been started to improve the housing situation of the homeless. In the autumn, the five largest urban municipalities were invited to participate in a four-year development work. Development work shall ensure that the homeless are provided with a comprehensive assistance service where housing policy instruments are linked to current health and social services. Central to this is the development of a residential chain in the form of a ‘step-by-step model’ in which the degree of navigability of living conditions can be increased in line with the individual’s assumptions. The invited municipalities have submitted project applications which are now under consideration. In the applications from municipalities, measures related to both services and housing are described, and for this year the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health has set aside 5 million. kr for this purpose. The House Bank, which is the secretariat of the project, has provided the necessary resources for operations. An important objective of the Government is to stimulate municipalities to develop and prioritise measures against the homeless. I hope and believe that this project too can contribute to it, because it is important that we manage to get this group of people a more worthwhile life, and we must do so as soon as possible. Governments are usually interested in contributing to it, as the budget also shows.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e981	I thank you for your answer. I thought it was nice to be updated both on the status of the strategies that were contained in the Equalisation Communication, and also on the funds that were made available in the 2000 budget. I note that in this area there is an interaction between the previous and current government when it comes to prioritisation and follow-up. I'm concerned about the local authorities' commitment here, and I would like to have a comment on whether the council feels that the municipalities with the framework they have at their disposal are following up on their part of this job. So here's the government council 750-1,000 new dwellings for next year. Is it non-residential, or is it totally difficult? In this case, could she specify who does not currently have a dwelling, but who hopes to get it to the next year with the effort that one is now putting up?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e992	What the government has proposed in the government budget for next year's housing, as the representative Meltveit Kleppa knows for sure, is the increase in the housing grant scheme for which there is room for between 750 and 1000 more new dwellings. These are housing for young people as well as those with disabilities. But in addition to that, we have now proposed an increase of the mortgage by NOK 2 billion. There must be more dwellings. In addition, it will also add up to 1000 student housing next year. It's the sum of this that does, I think, that there's money to help not least those who need it the most, namely the homeless, but there's also room to build more homes for the group of young people, where there are also many who are not in the market today. When it comes to whether I'm worried about whether the most affected municipalities are doing the job, it's good that there's now more involvement in the field. But I have to say that I don't feel quite sure that everyone is as good. That's why I have dialogue with the most affected municipalities, and I'm going to have it in time too, because the government can't build the houses. We have to play with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1002	I allow myself to address the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘Through the media, humanitarian organisations have made it known that they consider to withdraw as members of the new Foreign Study. What are the plans of the Council of State regarding changes in the assumptions of its work in relation to the previous decision of the Grand Duchy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1011	The proposals for amendments now being considered by the Government are to reduce the number of members of the panel in each case from four to two persons and to amend the provision that, as a general rule, access to personal presence in asylum cases should be granted. A reduction from four to two members will, in my opinion, not affect legal certainty or trust. The majority in the denominators will continue to be composed of members of the medical team. I would suggest that one member of each denominator should always be appointed on a proposal from the humanitarian organisations. This should ensure sufficient width in the composition of the individual denominator. I also believe that more attention should be paid when assessing whether personal presence is to be given, to whether personal attendance will have an impact on the decision on the individual case. The personal appearance will hardly affect the decision in all asylum cases. For some types of cases, it will still appear natural that personal appearances should be given, for example: when there is a child in the picture. It implies that the facilitator makes an individual assessment of whether or not to allow a personal appearance. In this case, it is natural to lay down some criteria for personal presence. In my view, this would not conflict with the key considerations behind the decision to establish the Foreign Letter as an independent and judicial body. It is true that humanitarian organisations are critical to change access to personal presence in asylum cases. However, I have understood that they are willing to accept a reduction in the number of members of the individual class from four to two on condition that access to the personal appearance does not change. The Government will submit a draft resolution to the Storting during November with proposals for amendments to the Foreign Affairs Act. The views on the amendments that appeared at a hearing I had, among other things. with the humanitarian organisations on 12 October, I now have an assessment. I believe that it is essential, in addition to ensuring legal certainty through the new Foreign Affairs Study, that we also do what we can to ensure that we have the shortest possible time for proceedings. I am concerned about the processing time with the original model that was proposed, and therefore the government wants to propose some changes at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1028	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There is no reason to conceal that the proposal to set up a foreign student created significant discussions, including here in the house. The majority's intentions have always been that we should have a composition and organisation of the denominator's work that had confidence in the environments affected by the denominator's work. This trust is in the process of disappearing before the name is in place, according to a reference in the VG, where some humanitarian organisations are warning boycotts of the entire scheme: «Personal presence of asylum seekers has been a fundamental principle since I attended the first meeting on the subject in 1994»; says Secretary-General Bjarte Vandvik of the NOAS to VG. He continues: ‘The three months before the start of the government will remove the main principle is a provocation.’ I have seen Brustad State Council so that the reason for the changes is fear of a long trial period, which she expressed. Organisations consider it much more important to think about legal certainty by personally meeting asylum seekers. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State change its position in relation to the right of asylum seekers to meet in the name?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1047	Neither I nor the Government have taken a final decision as to what we are going to propose to the Stortinget regarding changes in the Foreign Affairs Study. But when I, and more with me, have become concerned about the model that was proposed for the denominator, it is because we are now getting many more asylum seekers to our country. That means there are many more issues to be dealt with than it was at the time this model was adopted. I agree, of course, with Mr Nymo that legal certainty is very central. In my opinion, however, we must not get into the situation that the procedure period, among other things. because in the original model it is proposed that there should be a personal presence in all cases, it will be so long that there will also be a problem. It's not to their advantage. That is why I am concerned that we are both good at ensuring legal certainty and have the shortest possible time for proceedings. I will come back to what proposals I think are necessary in order to take account of both those considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1052	Now we're going to go to question 37.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1058	This question, from the representative of Ågot Valle to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1061	I had asked the Minister for Children and Family Affairs the following questions, but I look forward to it being answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘According to the media, asylum-seeking women who have fled from gender-based persecution have difficulties in staying. They've been raped in war, or they've broken out of a violent marriage. They are terrified of the consequences if they are sent back to their homeland. Here they are met with hard demands for evidence, despite our experience that violence against women is difficult to document. Will the Council of State address this issue as part of the follow-up to the UN Convention on Women?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1070	The question has therefore been asked to the Minister for Children and Family Affairs, but since the foreign policy is my responsibility, I will try to answer it. Initially, I would like to point out that Section 4 of the Foreign Affairs Act states that the law is to be applied, of course, in accordance with international rules by which Norway is bound, when these are intended to strengthen the foreigner's position. The UN Women’s Convention is such an international rule, and therefore the foreign authorities must apply the rules of the Foreign Affairs Act in accordance with its contents. I have no reason to believe that the rules of the Foreign Affairs Act and the practice being conducted are contrary to this or other conventions. That being said, it is important to establish that the conditions for obtaining asylum are a consequence of the 1951 Refugee Convention. The main condition for asylum is that a return to the country of origin must put at risk of persecution, i.e. an assessment of the danger to the applicant will have to be carried out in the future. Following the Convention, the risk of persecution must have arisen because of specified circumstances. The fact that an applicant will be able to be persecuted because of his gender would, in the circumstances, fall under the term ‘social group’ in the Convention. Gender-related persecution may therefore be covered by the Convention. The asylum assessment is forward-looking. This means that it is necessary to assess whether the applicant may be at risk of persecution by return. The assessment is based on the applicant’s own explanation in conjunction with the authorities’ knowledge of the situation in the home Member State. Information is not required to be documented. This will only be relevant in very special contexts. In all cases where the authorities conclude that the applicant is not entitled to asylum, it is always assessed whether the applicant should be granted a humanitarian residence permit. In these cases, an overall assessment is made of the situation of the applicant in question, where both the situation in the home Member State, experiences have been experienced by individuals and the overall life situation of the applicant is included.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1081	I thank you for your answer. I think the Council of State gave some positive signals. What we agree on, I think, is that it is clear that we have committed ourselves at least to assessing stays on the basis of gender-based persecution, through both the UN Convention on Refugees and the action plan following the Beijing Women's Conference and the Beijing +5 document. But then it's practice, as we meet it. My soul has met desperate women who have not been allowed to stay. They have fled because they have been raped or have broken out of a violent marriage. People who know well about the situation in their home country are not in doubt that these women are at risk of being persecuted when they return. Both the MIRA Centre, NOAS and Amnesty believe that the practice of the foreign law here means that these women have little chance of reaching out and being believed. I see clear parallels between the distrust these women encounter, and the distrustful women who have been subjected to violence meet. I am absolutely sure that the Council of State is concerned about these issues. Will the Council of State follow up the treatment of these asylum cases and examine whether the practice is in line with the Women's Convention and the Refugee Convention?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1095	I have no reason to believe that the practice is not in line with the rules that apply in this area, but I am, like the representative Valle, particularly concerned with the situation of women in this context as well. I just want to mention one point that I think is clearly important, and where it is important that it works in all cases, and that is to be observant of the situation of women in some special countries, and also the situation in which some have been in relation to violence and assault. We are, and we still have to be. I also think it is important that an attempt to focus on when women come to the country, that they be interviewed as much as possible by women. It has not always been as simple when the police have been responsible, simply because there have not been so many women there. I think we'll be able to manage this more easily now that the UDI has assumed responsibility from 1 July, and then I think it's also easier to obtain the information that is important for a proper overall assessment. So I have no reason to believe anything but that the rules are being followed in relation to the current legislation, but I will continue to focus on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1105	I have a question for our Minister of Health: ‘An 81-year-old Fredrikstad lady is left with a dental bill of $26,000 after she fell, knocked out teeth and bridge construction. The husband is financially affected because he has taken care of himself, even though the wife is persistently institutional. If she had received treatment from a public dentist, been under the care of municipal home care or placed in an institution, expenses would be covered. What will the Council of State do to allow reimbursement of expenditure?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1114	I find it difficult to deal with a single matter from Stortinget’s pulpit, and I assume that it has not been the opinion of the representative Hedstrøm. I assume that his dentist has examined the possibilities that may exist for support for dental treatment in the present case. The case illustrates, however, that we have inadequate support schemes in the case of residents with a high need for care and care. According to current legislation, in cases mentioned here, public dental care is limited to patients who are either in an institution or receive home care at least once per day. week. In the context of Storting’s treatment of the old age message, Stortinget requested the introduction of time-limited incentives to allow county municipalities to provide free dental treatment to all patients dependent on municipal relief services. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, in consultation with the State Health Inspectorate, has carried out an investigation into the categories of patients that may be involved and how many receive municipal home services. During the winter of 2000, the Ministry had a proposal for consultation, and in the 2001 state budget, I have proposed a pilot scheme in two or three counties, which is planned to start in 2001. It is estimated that costs on an annual basis will be about 7 million. kr for this. I consider it important that this service is provided as an outreach activity under the authority of the county council. I suggest that in cases where there is a need for dental care, this can be covered either by county employees dental doctors or by the purchase of services from private dental practitioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1125	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was a good answer in that he showed that this matter is not completely stationary but that one is working on it in the department. Because it's a little special that a man over 80 years of age who saves society for considerable amounts and who one day has to seek emergency help, does not get any information from his private dentist about the possibilities of reimbursement from the public. He has made a huge effort this old man, and then he is faced with this bill. Does the Council not believe that social security offices, social services, dentists and other health professionals need to be widely informed about this, so that the elderly become aware of their rights? And another question: we know that other Western European countries have largely reimbursement schemes for gum diseases and other dental treatments. A former prime minister in Sweden, Olof Palme, social democrat, won a election by introducing a ‘dental care reform’. Are you considering doing similar things here also in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1132	First of all, I agree that it seems unreasonable that someone who meets the criteria for e.g. home care, but which does not use it and is taken care of by others, shall be excluded from a scheme such as that mentioned herein. Unfair arrangements are a task for us to have done reasonably, and that is, to a large extent, the aim of the experimental system that I have just mentioned. I also agree that, first of all, his dentist, but also others in health care, should be well informed of the possibilities that exist, and I stress that it is also possible for the county council, if it so wishes, to provide assistance that can make this more reasonable. Otherwise, when it comes to the second question, I think I'll skip it – except that I accept the advice we can get when it comes to winning the next election.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1145	I ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Eastfold and some other counties lack dental watch or have established inadequate arrangements. People in the population in need of immediate assistance in dental injuries/pain have no organized dental watch to turn to. Will the Council of State take an initiative to establish an equivalent and satisfactory watch regime in all the counties?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1154	The question raised here by the representative Hedstrøm concerns the possible obligations of county councils to organise dental services other than regular opening hours in public and private dental services. Law on dental care and its processor does not deal specifically with this issue. The counties are legally required to ‘provide that dental services... are reasonably available’ to the whole population. The Dental Services Act does not oblige county councils to organise a dental watch system, as the Municipal Health Service Act obliges the municipality to organise medical services. The county authorities may decide for themselves how the responsibility for ensuring that reasonable availability of the necessary immediate assistance is followed up in practice. Named after the Law of Dentists of 13 June 1980... [[The fire alarm goes off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1165	Then we have to take a break in the negotiations and leave the building.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1181	Council of State barrels gets the word to finish their post.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1184	I continue where I was interrupted, and note that according to the law of dentists of 13 June 1980, dentists at an individual level have an obligation to provide immediate help when it is deemed necessary. The obligation applies both during working hours and during leisure time. Local conditions, in relation to the statutory duties of the individual dental practitioner, could result in a county dental watch not being considered necessary to fulfil the responsibilities of the county council. The lower limit of county responsibility will be linked to what is sound and appropriate in relation to Section 6 of the Act. The county councils have a special obligation to those groups that are prioritised in the Dental Services Act. However, health authorities cannot oblige a county council to organise a dental watch system. The accountability requirement is a legal standard. It is up to the county council itself to assess whether to set up and operate a dental watch system. Municipalities have obligations to provide reasonable access to dental care. The county councils are not obliged to offer equal access to immediate assistance to the entire population. It will be for the supervisory authorities in the event that they have to assess what is the minimum requirement of soundness under Section 6 of the Act. If the supervisory authorities consider that the county authorities do not discharge their obligations, they must follow it up as a supervisory matter. On this basis, I do not think it appropriate to take the initiative to establish an equivalent and satisfactory watch regime in all the counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1199	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is right that the individual dental practitioner should, according to ethical rules, prepare and help a patient with acute dental injuries or pains, and that the public dental service should also be responsible for a lower limit of availability for assistance. But Eastfold, as well as Akershus, Nordland, Oppland and Vestfold, have had serious problems with this this summer. Because when patients call, whether it is the public dental service or a private dentist in the evening or weekend, there is an automatic telephone answering machine that says he is not present and that you can contact them again on Monday. So you don't have a satisfactory lower limit. Now the Council of State promised that he would take a closer look at this in order to increase accessibility, but my question to the Council of State is: Should this be a legal task for the public dentistry, that it was incorporated into the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1204	I want to be careful to go in order to implement a change in the law that obliges county councils to establish a specified dental watch system. But I stress, as I said in my first post, that if the health requirement under the current law is not considered to be fulfilled by the supervisory authorities, yes, then the supervisory authorities have an obligation to follow it up with the individual county council, and there is a legal provision that I will ensure is followed, also with reference to the circumstances the representative Hedstrom has taken up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1220	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health: ‘The Government has decided that the fixed medical scheme will enter into force on 1 June 2001 even if there are currently 400 to 500 general practitioners who will participate in the scheme. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to implement the fixed medical scheme in such a situation?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1229	My short answer to the representative Alvheim's question is yes. Nor do I feel the need to extend the answer, except to add that of course I could have wanted the medical market to be balanced at the time of introduction. However, the development of the medical market is positive. In a few years we will have an annual supply of between 700 and 800 doctors in Norway. It is now important to strengthen primary health services, including: by increasing access to general practitioners. There is a predominantly professional consensus that the fixed medical system is appropriate and important for healthcare in general. A good agreement for the fixed medical scheme will facilitate increased recruitment to general medicine and to primary health services. Therefore, I believe that the implementation of the fixed medical scheme according to the agreed timetable is not only sound, but a prerequisite for the necessary strengthening of the primary health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1236	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which is not at all reassuring to me. So far, the fixed medical system has led to the escape of general practitioners from the primary municipalities. It seems quite obvious to me that it will not be possible to provide a sufficient number of general practitioners until June next year. That you get it in a few years is a completely different matter, and we'll have hope of that. I have received a lot of enquiries from general practitioners who do not want to join the scheme, and I have registered that only in the municipality of Bergen there are 64 permanent staff who are missing for the scheme to work. Since 1 June, can we risk suspending the municipality of Bergen, which is the second largest city in the country, from this scheme? What will the consequences of that be?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1245	I would not agree with a claim that the fixed medical system, which has been tried, has led to a flight of general practitioners from the primary health service, i.e. from the municipalities. What's right in what's said here is that there's too few doctors today compared to the scheme that is totally supposed to be. It's still too early to say anything about how many doctors won't join the scheme. [[The fire alarm goes on again.]] President, I don't know if I should wait with the rest of the answer...
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1254	We're probably going to have to cancel again.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1257	President! I consider the question to be answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1288	I will be asked the following questions to the Minister for Health: «The Central Hospital of More and Romesdal has been charged daily by the Ålesund Fire Service with NOK 12 000 from 1 October 2000, due to the fact that the use of Corridor Asians is halted for escape in the event of a fire. This is done despite the fact that the hospital has a free bed post, but cannot use it because of the bad economy. Instead of making sure that this bed post is opened, the county works so that the daily ticket does not fall. What will the Council of State do to put an end to this use of Corridor Asians?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1297	Overlays and Corridor Asians at the Central Hospital in More and Romesdal have occurred for a long time. This emerged, among other things: in the Health Inspectorate’s 1998 and 1999 Health Monitorings in Norwegian Somatic Hospitals. As one of the few hospitals in the country, the medical department at the Central Hospital in More and Romesdal had an increase in the number of Corridor Asians from 1998 to 1999, and the hospital reported that Corridor Asians regularly occurred in medical departments. On the basis of the Health Inspectorate's report in December 1999, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health asked all the county councils in their letter of 21 January 2000 to work actively towards each hospital in order to better address the challenge of Corridor Asia and overcoating. The Fire Service is fully entitled to impose fines if conditions are not changed after the indication of unacceptable means of escape, e.g.: as a result of corridor Asians. It is the hospital owner who is responsible for correcting the situation. The county must therefore take account of the situation identified by the local fire service and ensure that the operation is sound and in accordance with laws, regulations and administrative provisions. If this is not the case, it may also be appropriate for the County Medical Board and the State Health Authority to assess the situation at the hospital. The economic situation of More and Romesdal counties is not different from the rest of the country. The county has relatively low liabilities as a share of revenue. Net operating surplus in 1999 per year The population was also about on the national average. There is little reason to intervene specifically against this county municipality, but I would like to remind you of the department's letter of 4 January this year and to inform the county council that it is responsible for not blocking escape routes and preventing the arrival of people in the event of a fire.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1310	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am still concerned, because the development of the hospital shows that the letter from the department is not taken seriously. There is still widespread use in Corridor Asians, despite the fact that there is a whole section available that includes: was used during the influenza epidemic that has occurred this year. My wish is that this county council will once again receive a reminder from the ministry and from the Health Minister that patients cannot be treated in this way in Norwegian hospitals, at least not as long as departments are empty and not used. The way the county council works here is strange; you'd rather try to give up the day sentence than open a department and take care of the patients. I therefore hope that the Minister of Health will take a new initiative, especially towards this county because it admits that there is a vacant section standing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1319	Here I can promise the representative Nesvik that I will raise the matter and remind the county council of the responsibilities that it bears and that are pointed out in the letter mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1334	The question falls because the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1340	It is tempting to begin by saying that I am burning a question to the Minister of Health – but at least I allow myself to ask him the following questions: ‘The World Gang newspaper on 1 September 2000 refers to statements from professional teams where it is now a growing recognition that fetuses can feel pain at an earlier stage than previously known. This has led to a discussion about the use of anaesthetics in the event of an abortion. In the light of increasing knowledge of this, will the Council of State take the initiative to identify the need for such changes in the conduct of abortion interventions and, where appropriate, in other relevant interventions during pregnancy?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1349	In the article in the World Gang, to which the representative Håbreek refers, it is referred to professional environments that believe that fetuses can feel pain and discomfort from the 17th week of pregnancy and that do not exclude that the same can apply to foetuses down to 13 weeks. For understandable reasons, it is difficult to get involved in a very concrete discussion of the difficult issues raised here, but let me first point out that the vast majority of abortions in Norway take place in the 8th to 10th week of pregnancy. At this point, the nervous system has developed sparingly. An abortion, however, will cause pain to the woman. It is therefore common to use a short-term anaesthetic during the procedure. Tested and safe procedures are used, with the injection of a sleeping agent and analgesic, possibly supplemented by a light gas or other anaesthetic gases. This is associated with minimal complications. All medications used, including sleeping aids, analgesics and lyophilisate, also affect the foetus. The concentration of these means in the foetus will be between 50 and 100 pst. the concentration of the woman. Therefore, there is a basis for saying that the foetus also receives anaesthetic. Norwegian practice in this area is in line with international practice. I trust that the Norwegian trade union community will be involved in international development in both anaesthesia and gynaecology and use the recognised methods with the least possible side effects. I do not see the need for a separate Norwegian investigation in this area with a view to changing anaesthesia practices in the event of an abortion. But if research is to show that fetuses can feel pain at the stages and under the conditions described here, I would like to ask the State Health Authority to take a closer look at the need for direct anaesthetic.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1358	Questions 16 and 17 will be answered later. So we go to question 18, from the representative John I. Alvheim. Alvheim isn't in the hall, and we go on to question 19.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1366	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: ‘In April 1996, the then Minister of Social Affairs, Hill-Marta Solberg, replied that she wanted to look at the guidelines on the professional secrecy of social services vis-à-vis the lessor when they placed violent criminals. The background was a case from Ashkoy where a rape sentence that had been released on trial raped the female landlord, who had no knowledge of his background. Now a similar case has happened again. What has the Ministry done in the meantime?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1375	I would first say that I'm upset that such things as this happen. It is totally unacceptable that persons renting out parts of their housing through public institutions, in 1996 via social services and in 2000 through freedom of criminal protection are exposed to such a risk. Most people want to know about the dangers to which you expose yourself and your family, so that you can protect yourself as best you can. To the extent that the law prevents this, it is in place to ask if there is anything wrong with the law. With regard to the specific case from 1996, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health was informed that Ashkoy Social Office did not at any time receive written information from the police or prison that the client had been convicted in the past. What information did the social office have about him and how he or she might have been given such information, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health does not know for sure. In the light of this case, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health later in contact with the social services on similar issues has placed great emphasis on the need to balance two conflicting considerations. On the one hand, we have the professional secrecy of social services. The obligation of professional secrecy is a legal obligation, and is therefore not something that can be set aside on the basis of the judgement of social services. It is a fundamental value to protect the personal integrity of individuals and a trust relationship between social services and the client is very important. On the other hand, we have, among other things: in such cases, taking into account the legitimate knowledge needs of other persons so that they can choose how they will protect themselves and their families from persons and situations that may be dangerous. Social services must show great beauty when they are involved in cases involving the settlement of former convicted offenders. Putting a rape sentence on shelter in the house until a lonely woman appears to be a very poor solution, even the worst solution, regardless of whether the landlord knows the tenant's background or not. On the other hand, it is clear that in such cases one will face difficult balances, and from time to time it goes wrong. We can never get such a safe routine that it becomes completely risk-free, but we can do something. We can look at the law, at the interaction between public authorities, and underline the exercise of discretion in the individual case. I would therefore like to take the initiative to review the extent of the problems of social services in such cases, so that we can get an assessment of any necessary measures within that part of public services. In addition, I have been in contact with the Minister of Justice, and I refer to her answer to questions about the same issue later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1388	I agree with the Minister for Social Affairs that they are upset that such things are happening. I must also say that I am quite upset that after former social minister Hill-Marta Solberg said that one should review the obligation of professional secrecy and the rules for this, there has actually been no change based on the case in Askøy. The fact that the social office was not informed by the police at the time means, of course, that the social office should not be charged, but that does not mean that the social minister must ensure that such a case is followed, that information is provided to the social office and that the social office goes on in those cases. In fact, it is generally the social offices around the country who are responsible for placing or providing shelter for former offenders, including rape offenders, and in this case it was a gross rape with a high degree of detention. I see that the Minister of Social Affairs now wants to do something about this, but I think the Minister of Social Affairs should take with him to his own party that you should have done something about it five years ago. I think this is embarrassing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1395	Then we go back to question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1401	I will ask the following questions to the Minister of Social Affairs: ‘The Minister of Social Affairs has created high expectations among a number of young heroin users in the country with his proposal that the 10-year limit for having abused heroin should not be absolute in order to have methadone or Subutex-assisted rehabilitation. Unfortunately, there is no extra money in the state budget for an extension of methadone and Subutex treatment. Why does the Council of State not follow up its own promises by granting more money for drug-assisted treatment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1410	The development of medically assisted treatment has been very rapid in Norway. The action apparatus has been able to meet in a short time what was initially an assumed need. The county councils, in cooperation with the county councils, proposed the capacity requirement for approx. 750 places. The offer became nationwide in 1998. From 200 clients in treatment in 1998, towards the end of the current year, we are now approaching 1000 clients in approved medically assisted rehabilitation facilities. In comparison, Sweden, which has had methadone treatment since 1966, today has a roof of 800 clients. The offer has also been followed up with State funding: from an allocation of 41 million in 1998. SEK to cover the cost of a nationwide offer, we are up this year in double, 82 million. kr. In addition, the state fully covers the costs of setting up and operating regional centres and expenditure on drugs. These are exceptional funds that are in addition to the regular follow-up of drug users by municipalities. Local social services have the overall responsibility for drug users’ interventions. Drug-assisted treatment is one of several social services that can be assessed. The offer is not suitable for everyone. Through the new guidelines for medically assisted rehabilitation, I have, among other things, chosen to soften the intake criteria by eliminating the requirement for at least 10 years of opiate abuse. In this way, we want more attention to be paid to individual needs and overall living conditions than to abuse, which may be difficult to document. Nevertheless, the demand for long-term opiate-dominated abuse is maintained and it is assumed that regular treatment and rehabilitation measures have been tried. With such a short history, it is still too early to evaluate the achievement of results and the impact of this treatment provision. Experience so far suggests that a large proportion of clients have serious problems avoiding side abuse. Many of the clients, as Alvheim’s representative knows, have major social problems, and somatic and psychiatric morbidities are common – problems that are likely to be clarified when treatment is started. This tells me that practical and psychosocial follow-up around the individual becomes particularly important for success. Therefore, this requirement is followed up in the new guidelines. Of course, exceptional grants for this offer are important, especially during a start-up and start-up phase. Therefore, in the next year’s budget, the government also provides for a continuation of the offer at the current level, which should ensure that around 1000 clients receive a treatment offer. However, state funds alone are no guarantee that we will succeed – the experience so far has shown us. Capacity problems at regional centres can not only be attributed to the economy; we also experience problems with lack of circulation and varying degrees of follow-up of clients in the local auxiliaries. I therefore think that there is now good reason to stop and look at how the funds are used and whether the offer is organised in the best possible way. In the next year’s budget, we have therefore also announced that the Ministry will work towards a greater degree of decentralisation of supply and a clearer anchoring in ordinary health and social services. The aim of this work will be to provide more clients with a necessary offer, while offering even better for those admitted to such treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1425	I thank the Council of State for the answer and immediately agree that we should look at how these funds are used. One today has approx. 700 patients undergoing medical rehabilitation with methadone or Subutex at a cost of approximately 160 million. kr, as indicated in the budget for the following year, which is broadly the same as for the current year. My estimate of the number of people who should have been offered methadone or Subutex is at least 2,000. The allocation should be sufficient for this if the methadone centre on Ullevål had not seized one third of the amount of money allocated. And then I come back to the Social Minister's answer. Will the Minister of Social Affairs do something about the operating costs of MARIO at Ullevål, so that the money will benefit patients as much as possible, not the professional staff?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1434	As I said in my first answer, it is actually a reorganization of the use of money that is my main concern now. If I go to play MARIO on Ullevål or I do it the other way, it's not finished yet. It's pretty important in this context to know the consequences of what you're doing. But what's infinitely more important is that we can get a circulation, so that we don't get a significant accumulation of patients within each of the four centers that never goes on, and that thus stands like a clot in a system that should have had a flow.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1439	Then we go to question 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1445	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘NSB BA has decided to terminate all take-offs on the Arendalsbahnen. The passengers from Arendal, what I know, are to be transported by bus to Nelaug in the first year. Is this a permanent solution, or could there be other solutions, such as one found at the Bratsbergbahnen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1454	The lack of drivers results in temporary production cuts. With regard to the location of the cuts, the NSB takes into account that the least possible is affected, and that the most possible driver resources are released and inserted where they are most needed. For example, the NSB adds: until all passenger trains on Arendalsbanen and Bratsbergbanen are cancelled with effect from 20 October onwards. Instead, the NSB will install a bus/maxitaxi on these routes. Setting up the train offer from 20 October at Arendalsbanen and Bratsbergbanen must be seen as a temporary measure. National Transport Plan 2002-2011 provides for the assessment of the long-term strategy for train traffic on these lines in the context of the negotiations on the new framework agreement for State purchases from the NSB for the period 2002-2005. I would like to stress that that assessment must and will be taken independently of the temporary situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1461	We're all aware that it has something to do with attractors, and it's a terrible shame that the NSB has been running so bad planning that they've come up with this situation. Both the government budget proposal and the national transport plan highlight the fact that the Arendalsbahn has launched an own project with direct trains, so that one can connect to the Signature train and get direct access to Arendal-Oslo, they have gone into electrification, and then this comes. Then I would like to show you a press release from the NSB saying that the NSB is cancelling all train production on the Bratsberg Railway and the Arendal Railway. On the two routes, a national transport plan recommends a bus ride from a socio-economic point of view. As seen, this is also a service for actions that will come sooner or later. The East-Agder team has stated that they want to engage in dialogue with the NSB. Can the Minister of Transport see that this section of the track can come up in the same situation as the Bratsberg Railway, and will he state that this is not permanent – it is temporary?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1470	I agree that this is the result of a fundamental planning failure. It also affects the intended arrangements, inter alia. direct train, on which the representative Vihov had arrived. With regard to the NSB’s opinion that this is an advance of the national transport plan, it is enough to overinterpret the transport plan. What is apparent from the transport plan is that a consultant company has recommended that, among other things: The Arendal Railway is considered for future train provision. This will happen and those conclusions will only be drawn in the context of the negotiations on the purchase of services from the NSB from 2002. I'm also well aware that the county council is in good dialogue with the NSB. In the case of alternative use of the passenger service path, it is only a relevant question if the NSB is not to operate in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1482	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Transport: ‘NSB BA has stated that they have too many travellers in the Rushtida, and will therefore increase the prices for fewer travellers at this time of the day. The Council of State has rejected such a proposal. Is the Council of State overestimated that NSB BA has a clear view that in local transport NSB BA is just to relieve the congestion of car transport, and what will the Council of State do to ensure such an understanding within the organisation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1491	The NSB has informed that assessments of different prices have been carried out over the day. However, I have no indication that this implies any change in the NSB's understanding of its role, such as: is to be a good transport option in local traffic. This will be further followed up by the Ministry in the ongoing negotiations with the NSB on the purchase of transport services.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1498	I guess a lot of us reacted with infidelity when we looked at the news that the NSB had assessed putting on its price in Rushtida. I want more clarity from the Council of State if he has now given such a clear signal to NSB BA that they will never come back with such suggestions. Because I know that they have made the corresponding proposals to former Minister of Transport Odd Einar Dørum, and I think there was a rather high level of noise in the ministry offices that time. Then it goes two years, and then they come up again with the same signals. Then I want to make sure that they understand that they're going to drive public transport, they're going to be there and they're going to get away in Rushtid, set up in Rushtid, to reduce car use. They should be a good offer to their customers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1505	As we can see from the questioner's question, I immediately made it clear that adding to the price during the rush period is not a current policy. When it comes to the question of the eternal future, you have to be careful. In the current situation of the NSB, and in the near future, there is an out-of-date policy. I am reasonably sure that the NSB has got this very clear, not least after the round that has just been. But as I said in my main response, we will also follow this up in the negotiations on the purchase of transport services.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1515	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘A number of bus companies have applied for concessions for express buses without State aid. Does the Council of State consider that today's concession rules, as well as 2 years of time spent on concession treatment, are in line with the objective of increasing public transport investment?»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1524	Permits for regular carriage by motor vehicle or vessel shall be subject to the applicable traffic laws. This implies that, when examining such applications, the privilege authority is obliged to make a discretionary assessment of the benefits of the proposed offer and the disadvantages of the existing offer. It is the individual county that decides the application if the route section is wholly within the county. In the case of cross-border routes, the application shall be decided by the Ministry. Most of the so-called express buses refer to lines across county boundaries. Many of these routes have varying parallelities with trains. Consequently, in the concession policy, the relationship with the railway has been central. The concession policy has been somewhat enhanced in recent years. In particular, this applies to bus routes whose main market is outside the route. In St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000, National Transport Plan 2002-2011, on the basis of evaluations, the Government has announced further embellishment of the concession policy in areas with a certain traffic base where it is desirable to strengthen public transport. At the same time, it has been announced that the train offer needs to be adapted to market developments. It can not be expected that, through increased public purchasing frameworks, the State will ensure a unchanged rail offer where users, for example: selects bus. Nevertheless, it is stated in the transport plan that concession issues continue to be based on a concrete assessment. Consequently, in the case of the concession policy itself, it is up to the Storting to give signals through the treatment of the transport plan. As far as the proceedings in respect of such concession cases are concerned, with the requirements for clarification of the consequences mentioned, it will necessarily take some time, depending on the scope of the application. In the case of cross-border routes, the preparation of the case and the responsibility for the necessary consultation have been assigned to the county most affected, where appropriate, where the applicant has a place of business. In general, I agree that a two-year processing period is too long if there are no special circumstances.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1535	I thank you for the answer, and I am pleased that the Council of State will have a further decoration. Although he probably doesn't get me completely in touch with it, at least it's a step forward. He also admits that two years is an excessive length of proceedings. I'm also glad, and I hope that's a change in the practice that's been in the past. The Council of State has said that it will increase efforts in the field of public transport, and it is also reflected in the national transport plan. But that collective effort is directed enormously towards the NSB, and largely towards the NSB alone. It is also the sector that gets money, while the bus sector doesn't get it. The Council of State has said it's a improvement. Nevertheless, I think it's a little too passive towards the bus sector, and that it's a very priority and favor of the NSB. It's also on the basis that he says no to buses when they compete with the NSB. I think it's a little too tame and wonder if you don't really have to have a build-up both places to bet entirely on public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1542	It may not be directly surprising that the big business representative Nistad and I have a somewhat different view of the future of the NSB. I see clearly that the NSB and trains certainly have a future in public transport, not least around the larger cities, and that is especially in environmental contexts. We are also betting in other areas of public transport, not least we are putting in place strong measures to improve public transport on rubber wheels in order to facilitate different points of traffic and through what we do on road transport. When it comes to competition with the NSB, the very structure that I am announcing, and that is being treated in this house, is an example that we also see that possibility in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1554	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘According to a survey at all road offices, there are a number of ‘roads to nowhere’. From a central point of view, it seems that no one has the full overview of these roads. Can the Council of State make an attempt to suggest the size and cost of completing these ‘roads to nowhere’?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1563	We do not have so many examples – a few examples – of the representative Nistad refers to as ‘roads to nowhere’. On the other hand, we have many examples of the gradual development of longer road sections. The advantage of such an extension is that the benefits to road users as the partial parcels are completed. However, whether or not to add to the continuous development of all sub-parcels on a route is a priority issue. Among other things, there must be: the benefits of continuous development are assessed in relation to what is achieved by giving priority to other projects first. I can mention that the continuation of Ev 134 on the Hegstad–Damåsen route in Buskerud has begun. The same applies to the continuation of row 4 on the route Gålleråsen – Slattum in Akershus. For the Ev 6 Grilstad Tunnel in Southern Trøndelag, a toll financing scheme for the completion of the second tunnel run is under way and the national transport plan for the period 2002-2011 prioritises the completion of Ev 39 on the Sørås-Hop-Fjøsanger route in Hordaland for the first four years. Another project that has emerged in the public debate is the continuation of the mainland link of Lofoten on Ev 10. In the national transport plan, the project has been proposed for the last six-year period. For fiscal reasons, the appropriations for road investment in recent years have not been large enough to operate all installations under way rationally. In order to improve the situation of already started installations, therefore, very few new plants have been started in recent years. Nevertheless, some plants in progress were stopped, including: Rv 120 Erpestad – Gardermoen in Akershus and Ev 6 Beisfjord Bru – Sjömannskirka. As indicated in the 2001 draft budget, these projects have been relaunched in 2000-2001.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1578	I was aware that the Council of State did not have the full overview of these sections and these tunnels, because I had an answer to my struggle to get hold of it. But I'm not asking about the construction routes, or what you're going to do. There are a lot of tunnels that are actually built, but closed at both ends. We have one on top of Gülleråsen and one in Narvik, and we have a way out in Dalsfjorden in Sogn and Fjordane. ‘Dalsfjord scandal’ is it painted all over the mountain side. There are these projects I'm asking about, and these are the ones I've mentioned before. I'm not going to ask again, but I just hope that the Council of State will come up with a list of all of this, and at the same time ask if it is possible to provide an overview of the costs of these projects when they were built, because it would be interesting to see what we could have got for all the millions who have agreed to these projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1585	In general, I am that we are now making even more provision for rational plant operation. I refer to what I said in the main response, that is also why we should think about it well when starting new projects, in relation to being able to have rational plant operation on what we are going to do, and what we should finish. That being said, the reason that installations appear to be semi-finished can be good. For example, in the case of the Grilstad tunnel in Trondheim, it was appropriate to detonate at the time when the second tunnel was detonated, which you will now – as I said – complete. Otherwise, you'll also depend to some extent on state priorities. One example of this is Dalsfjordbrua. But what's important is that, for the future, we add to the most rational plant operation possible, precisely to make the best use of society's resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1598	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Over the last five years, public transport ticket prices have increased by 20 pst. on a country-by-country basis due to reduced subsidies to public transport. At the same time, provision has been reduced in a number of places. The result is an expensive and poor offer. The student and student organisations and Nature and Youth require a national student and student discount on public transport. Will the Government agree to grant State grants so that such a discount can be introduced?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1607	There are today three nationwide discounts on collective transport. These rebate schemes include the honey discount scheme, the children's discount scheme and the system of rebates for military and civil servants. As a general rule, the arrangements give the right to 50 pst. a discount in relation to the normal single ticket price. Although students and students are not covered by the nationwide schemes, there are other discount schemes for these groups. I can mention that the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research has concluded agreements with the companies concerned on discounts for students and students. Such agreements include, inter alia: concluded for journeys by train and by North Norway bus. These agreements are based on negotiations on financial compensation. As part of the local self-government, the county authorities are responsible for the local regular services, inter alia: Car and boat routes. This responsibility includes both route offers, tariffs and discount schemes other than those country-wide schemes. I can inform you that several county councils have concluded agreements with the transport companies on discount schemes for students and students. If the nationwide discount schemes were to be extended to several groups, this would lead to measures to compensate for reduced traffic revenue. Such measures could be either an increase in the overall tariff level, a reduction in route offers or an increase in public subsidies, possibly a combination of these measures. The national transport plan signals that an assessment of issues related to the organisation of public transport will be carried out. In this context, I would like to examine whether there is a need for a broader review. In this case, it would also be natural to look at the different discount schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1620	I thank you for your answer. I interpret it somewhat in the sense that there is at least hope in the hanging string. In Oslo, every eight is a student. The student discount is therefore a particularly topical requirement here. Oslo is probably also the city in Norway that is worst hit by car pollution. It is therefore critical when the Evening Post announces that it is likely to be 20 p.m. increase in collective prices next year. VAT on passenger transport is an important reason for this. The government has chosen to provide other collective funds with VAT compensation, but for some reason not tramk and T-Bahn. It is possible that this is a loss on the part of the Government. I would like to ask: will the Council of State ensure that this is cleaned up and prevent the government budget from entailing a massive price increase and away from a fury of Oslo's collective offerings?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1629	In terms of collective provision, both in Oslo and in other counties, it is obvious that there is also a need to give priority to the municipality and the municipality. In this way, it is not a good signal to public transport that the City Council proposes reduced transfers to Oslo Sporveier. As far as VAT is concerned, we suggest that regional and local public transport should not be affected by the price of the ticket as a result of VAT, because we want to go into compensation schemes. In terms of T-Bahn and tram, our preliminary analyses show that for T-Bahn and tram there will be no significant economic impact of VAT, because it is 12 pst. VAT on the ticket and deduction of full VAT. There's a discussion at Oslo Sporveier about the size of these rashes. If it turns out that these rashes are going to be larger than we've assumed, we'll also consider compensation schemes in relation to tram and T-Bahn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1641	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘At Oslo Airport the Gardermoen land and light 4 aircraft daily that emit more noise than the Ministry of Transport has set as the upper limit by regulations. In the last 3 months, the regulations have been broken 376 times according to an investigation by the OSL, and they say they have no authority to put an end to this. Air traffic control has not responded despite reports on the situation. The situation is unacceptable for the residents. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the regulations are followed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1650	In December 1997, the Ministry of Transport laid down rules on entry and exit routes for Oslo Airport Gardermoen. Its purpose is to regulate air operations at airports so as to minimise noise abatement while respecting air operations considerations. Oslo Airport Gardermoen is open to all aircraft types and operates continuously throughout the day. However, in the interests of the local population, night traffic is subject to strong restrictions. For example, those aeroplanes that emit the most noise shall only be able to land and take off in daylight between hours. 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. At Oslo Airport Gardermoen, a computerized noise and trasé monitoring facility is being built and Oslo Airport AS is preparing monthly reports based on the information provided. The reports shall be sent out, inter alia: to the local population and to the air traffic control to monitor compliance. I have been informed by the Air Safety Authority that from the reports for June, July and August of this year there are some significant exceedances of the maximum levels established at night. The Air Safety Authority will immediately address with Oslo Airport AS what measures can be taken in the short term to improve the situation. Furthermore, those companies operating at night with aeroplanes that do not meet the noise criteria will be directly contacted by the Air Safety Authority. The Ministry will intensify the Authority and the Aviation Administration to comply with the Regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1663	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is reassuring that the Council of State reacts quickly, but it might be of interest to know how long he has known about these conditions. I expect the Council of State to immediately intensify the regulations to the Swedish Aviation Agency and the Air Safety Authority in terms of both noise, night flights and breaches of the trasé regulations. The requirements are so restrictive precisely for health reasons for the population. It is so serious that the municipality of Nannestad, in the interests of the population, has notified Oslo Airport Gardermoen of a breach of the regulations, which I believe is well known to the Council of State. The Air Safety Authority was established on 1 January of this year. At the NRK Ostlandssenden on 13 October, the aviation director of Foreststad said that it was not until September that they were given staff in place to follow the noise regulations. My question to the Council of State is then: Is it so to understand that airports in Norway have been unsupervised for eight months?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1674	As the representative Sjøli had in mind, the Air Safety Authority is a relatively young organisation that we are still building up in terms of resources. It is clear that this has always been the responsibility of the Air Safety Authority and that through the deployment of resources, additional opportunities have been provided for the proper discharge of their responsibilities. I want to repeat that I want to tighten this up to supervision and assume that it is sufficient. If necessary, sanctions are also provided for in the Aviation Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1684	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘From a number of political groups, the need for the swiftest deployment of the E18 Mosseweg in the tunnel has been addressed. There is a proposal for a solution through private funding that will enable this to be resolved quickly. [[Public Private Cooperation]] This will lead to significant environmental, road safety and transport economic gains. Will the Government initiate the implementation of projects involving OPS financing of the E18 Mossewegen as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1693	In 1999, the Road Directorate approved an impact study on the South Corridor addressing the consequences of different options for the deployment of E18 Mosseveien and E6 on the Winterbro-Ryen/Loenga route. The option of expanding the Mosseweg in the four-field tunnel was designed to be of the greatest benefit. The disadvantages of the alternative were among others: that it requires a very concentrated investment rate and that there is a lot of traffic into Bjørvika, which is a vulnerable area. On the basis of the impact assessment and letters from the Road Directorate to the Road Managers, Oslo City Board and the district council in Akershu agreed on a state plan decision where E6 was prioritised as a tribal road from the south towards Oslo. This has been followed up by the prioritisation of the development of E6 to four fields in St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000, National Transport Plan 2002-2011. According to the National Transport Plan, the Ministry of Transport goes in line with the County Plan Decision to build the four-field motorway along the E6 during the planning period. The project is part of the plans for the development of the main road network in the Oslo area as an alternative to the E18 Mossevegen. The Ministry has not proposed State resources for the expansion of Mossevejen in the period 2002-2011. In the impact assessment, it has been pointed out as a disadvantage in the Mosseweg option that it is difficult to achieve a staged development. OPS funding could facilitate the financing of a large stage. Private financing must be repaid by tolls or by the State budget. There is no room for using tolls from Oslopacket 1 for this project. Nor do I think it is appropriate to establish a separate toll scheme for the Mosseweg. The Mossevejen project must therefore be financed, where appropriate, from the State budget in competition with other national road projects on E6 and E18. In the light of an investigation into alternative pilot projects, the Ministry of Transport recommends that the E39 Øysand-Thamshamn in Southern Trøndelag and Western parts of E18 in East Agder be the first pilot projects for OPS. This is mentioned in the national transport plan. I hope and believe that the implementation of these two projects will show whether the scheme is socially sound and what efficiency gains lie in the idea of public private cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1704	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I must admit I will characterize as very disappointing. This is a project that has very high socio-economic benefits. According to the State Road Service, it's about a saving of SEK 4.5 billion over a five-year period. There are significant environmental gains and significant traffic gains in the form of reduced accidents, etc. This can be resolved by means of a OPS funding if it is willing and if the Government had been willing to take Oslo's problems seriously. I would like to ask the Council of State, if I interpreted him correctly: is it that we will not have this project completed during the next planning period if the Road Service is to be in charge of the project?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1711	Value-added analyses must be seen in relation to the alternative deployment of E6. When it is finished, the utility analysis will probably change a lot in relation to the Mosseweg. Even if OPS projects are organised, there must be a priority issue, not least in this room, which projects are to be developed, regardless of the form of funding to be provided. As for the issue of the Mosseweg, I said in my main response that in the national transport plan for the next decade, the government is proposing that the south corridor on the E6 from the Rhine to the Winter Bridge be expanded, and not on the Mosseweg.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1721	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The head of road in Troms has decided that practical driving tests Class A and A1 shall be carried out in Tromsø and Harstad from 2001 onwards. This means that such tests cannot be carried out on Finnsnes. ==References== Thus, 30,000 people are given increased distances to take these types of driving tests by approximately. 15 miles. Does the Council of State believe that such centralisation of services is consistent with the policy that the Government wants to pursue when it says it wants to bring services closer to customers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1730	The organisation and provision of services from the State Road Service is under an efficiency and reorganisation process. Road offices have made proposals to the Directorate of Roads in this process. In order to achieve cost reductions, it is necessary to assess how the services of the State Road Service are organised and located. The authority to determine places where a driving test may be carried out has been assigned to individual road offices. When the road office in Troms has found out that the number of places for practical testing for driving licence categories A, motorcycle, and A1, light motorcycle is to be reduced, this is among others. justified by the reduced cost of the establishment and the quality improvement of the practical tests. Motorcycle samples are concentrated for a short period of the year and relatively few samples are taken. Fewer test sites will mean that each sensor gets more practice and the cost of qualifying the sensors will be lower. As pointed out by the representative Nymo, Trom’s road office has among other things. proposed to close the offer of practical driving tests for light and heavy motorcycle at the Finnish traffic station. This means that candidates from the district of Finnsne who are to pass the motorcycle test must take the practical test in Tromsø or Harstad. Training may continue at driving schools in the vicinity and the theoretical test may be taken at the Finnish traffic station. I have been informed that in 1999 about 580 tests were carried out for Class A and A1 in Troms. Of these, about 100 were from the district of Finns. As mentioned above, the Ministry of Transport has delegated this type of decision to the State Road Administration. I understand that such decisions can create reactions in the areas where they feel that they are losing an offer. However, this must be seen in relation to the efficiency gains achieved. In this context, the State Road Service must have a certain freedom to organise its activities. Therefore, I do not want to go in and change the detailed governance of the decisions that the agency has taken here to make the business more efficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1739	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I think more with me will find very disappointing. The government says that rural policy should focus on regional centres and the modernisation of public Norway, and that these should be given increased services and service levels. What's happening here makes it clear that the government doesn't in any way live up to its good intentions. There is no doubt that both those who are going to drive up, and society is losing if people in Mid-Throms have to go to Tromsø or Harstad to take the motorcycle test. Governments were concerned with this with improving efficiency and reducing costs. We know those formulations well, we who live in District Norway. They're talking about saving $200,000 on centralization, which means that people in Mid-Throms have to spend a whole day on the drive-up. When people have to get away from work and school for a whole day, it's not going to be much until society loses on this. That is why this proposal is totally unacceptable, and I would ask the Minister of Transport to reconsider this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1746	Just because the public sector, in this case the Road Service, is directly targeted at customer-related tasks, changes will also have consequences. A balance must be made between customer service and efficiency and costs. This assessment has been carried out in the Road Service, and I trust that they have made a proper assessment of how it is appropriate to organise this offer in Troms. I would like to remind you that there are still two points of departure in Troms, and that this is not a very high number of people when it comes to the actual trials.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1754	This question, from Rolf Rekovam's representative to the Minister for Transport, will be raised by Inge Myrvoll.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1757	I have the following questions, on behalf of Rolf Reikvam, to the Minister for Transport: ‘The price of public transport has increased in most places far beyond the overall price increase. The State budget proposes a reduction in petrol taxes, which will further weaken public transport compared to private car use. Reduced state transfers are the direct cause of the large price increase. In the Oslo area, the price increase has led people to choose the private car. Does the Council agree that the strong price increase has led to more people opting for trains, and what will be done to reverse developments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1766	In the State budget, the government has proposed a reduction in fuel charges. This has the following background: We have gradually experienced a situation where fuel taxes are significantly lower in our neighbouring country Sweden. This creates price differences that contribute to commercial leakage. If we don't do something about this, some of the revenue base for the fees could be reduced over time. We also take into account that the increase in crude oil prices has led to a situation of high fuel prices in a historical context. This will affect those who have had alternatives to car use, e.g. in the districts. We have also proposed a reduced diesel tax. As a result, the part of public transport using diesel as a fuel will have little change in the competitive situation with respect to the private car. The question refers to tariff increases in public transport. The County/Oslo Municipality is responsible for providing grants for the operation of local car and boat routes, trams and T-Bahn. The State contributes to the financing through the municipal economy approach. In the context of Storting’s treatment of the municipal economic proposition in spring, it was decided to add a number of earmarked transfers to the framework grant. This gives municipalities and county councils greater room for local priorities. Railway transport is the responsibility of the State. The country purchases services from the NSB, and the journeys normally take place in accordance with the NSB’s actuarial regulations. The appropriations for the purchase by the State of passenger transport services from the NSB have not been reduced in recent years. The government purchase also includes the near-traffic of the NSB around the major cities. However, in Oslo/Akershus there is tariff cooperation between NSB’s local traffic and Stor-Oslo local traffic, SL. As a result, changes in the SL tariff system, resulting from local priorities, turn into the tariffs for NSB’s short-distance services around Oslo. SL indicates that they have increased fares in two rounds this year. The NSB has no continuous passenger counts in localogens, but the company has so far no indications of traffic decline in these trains. The government is committed to strengthening public transport, particularly in the major urban areas where environmental problems are greatest. In this context, I warn of measures such as road pricing and parking restrictions. In particular, I would like to point out the effort made to develop public transport, which has been announced in the national transport plan. As far as the capital area is concerned, I would particularly like to refer to Oslopacket 2, which represents a strong commitment to the development of public transport in the area of the coming years. I would also like to refer to the answer I have given earlier today to questions from the representative of Vihovde.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1783	First, I must be allowed to express my deep disagreement with the Council of State as to what he said about the historically high fuel prices. Compared to the level of earnings in Norway, they were significantly higher for 20 to 30 years ago than they are today. If you look at it internationally, Norway has very low fuel prices in relation to the level of wages and salaries, and you have to compare that with that. And after the decrease that's now coming, we're going to have Europe's second lowest. But what the Council of State and I agree on is that there is a potential for public transport that you can't take out, among other things. because of the inter-state/communal blackmail. The State introduces a diesel tax, the county authorities have to compensate it through the framework transfers, VAT is introduced, it has to be compensated by the county council, and then there is a situation where a strenuous state economy leads to an increasing cost of driving collectively, and people are going to choose a car. And when we have a common goal, we need to get more offensive action from the Council of State to figure out how to achieve the common goal, not least in urban areas. In my opinion, road pricing is not enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1790	In terms of the historically high fuel prices, it's also a nominal question, because we're dependent on having a reasonable acceptance for the level of fees we're organising at all times. It's enough that with the fuel prices we have now, we're doing that acceptance very far. There has also been a basis for the Government’s assessments. Moreover, I am pleased that we agree on the objectives. We have a common responsibility to turn it into a practical policy. When I referred to my answer to the question from the representative Vihovde, it included, among other things. I want to look into the organisation of public transport in order to make it more efficient and to make it a better offer, so that we can achieve a clear objective we have of strengthening public transport at the expense of increasing car use.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1800	This question, from Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1803	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘I have repeatedly called for the involvement of the board of directors in relation to the problems of the increasing coastal population. A research project has now been set up under the auspices of the Fisheries Committee in Helgeland following recommendations given in NOU 1990:12 Coastal Management Plan. The project is a split layer with a total frame of NOK 1880 000 and is now missing NOK 880000 to be fully funded, so that the final report can be written. What will the State Council do to help this project?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1812	On 4 October 2000, the Ministry of Fisheries received an application from the ‘Coastal project’ for a grant of NOK 880000 for the full financing of a three-year project. The aim of the project is to assess the impact of an increasing stock of seals on coastal fisheries and aquaculture, both economically and socially, and to explore the possibilities for using sales for food, clothing and high-cost products in the form of marine oils. The Ministry of Fisheries is committed to clarifying the consequences of the growing cell populations, both in the east and west ice and along the coast, and has therefore undertaken different projects where the objective is precisely this. These include: set up a NAMMCO working group to monitor by-catch of marine mammals. Fishing research in Tromsø is working on modelling the amount of biomass consumed by poppy, Greenlandic and wave whales in the Barents Sea. This work will be continued and extended in the long term to other species of marine mammals. A project has also recently begun with the aim of increasing the commercialisation of cell products. The Ministry of Fisheries is in principle in favour of the application from the ‘Coastal project’, but will consider it in the context of other projects and other work carried out in this area, so as to maximise the amount of resources used to identify the scale and impact of the growing stock of sales. The Ministry of Fisheries will aim at examining the application from the ‘Coastal project’ during the month of November.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1828	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and record that it is willing to process this application. The work done by NAMMCO and Fisheries Research on increasing the commercialisation of cell products is well and good. But this is a project that addresses precisely the issue of coastal communities, which neither NAMMCO nor fisheries research has managed to focus enough on. Recent research shows that the population of the Baltic Sea has tripled. One of the things this project aims at is just to clarify the size of the population, so it's very important to have this project implemented. When the municipalities and private organisations have contributed mainly, I think it should be lacking that the Ministry of Fisheries does not also contribute a small amount – NOK 880,000, which is what this is about. So I hope for a positive treatment in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1835	As I explained, the Ministry of Fisheries is concerned with the consequences of increasing cell populations, both along the coast and in the east and west, and the measures taken are intended to relate to both of these areas. I also referred to several different types of projects that are targeting this goal. There is no disagreement that the «Coastal project» for which money has been requested is an interesting project in relation to the objectives of the Ministry of Fisheries and the Government in this area, so the application will be assessed according to the guidelines I presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1843	This question, from Steinar Bastesen to the Minister for Fisheries, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1846	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The best possible stock estimate for our fishing resources is essential for maximum use and profit for Norway. Research on common stocks managed by Russia and Norway has in recent years been under the impression that it has been difficult and, in part, impossible for Norwegian research vessels to have research and registration in the Russian zone. What approach has the Council of State taken to improve research cooperation with Russia?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1855	Research cooperation between Norway and Russia in the fisheries sector has long-standing traditions back to the 1950s. The implementation of the research framework for the identification of common fish stocks in the Barents Sea has worked very well up to the late 1990s. Since 1996, Russian practice has changed considerably. Restrictions have been established on the geographical scope of the Norwegian research staff in the Russian economic zone and, to varying degrees, requirements have been imposed for the manufacture of the vessels in the Russian port and for Russian inspectors on board. This situation has worried Norwegian authorities and not least our marine scientists. The Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have therefore used every opportunity in recent years to address these problems with the Russians. Russian Prime Minister Kasianov recently visited Norway. During the discussions during this visit, there were indications that the Russian side is now willing to find solutions to the problems. This year’s quota negotiations under the Joint Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission will take place in Tromsø from 13 to 17 November 2000. During the Commission meeting, the issue of research cooperation will be a major issue. In the light of the talks held during Prime Minister Kasianov's visit, I have the hope that the questions about the Norwegian research pillars in the Russian economic zone will be clarified through the discussions in the Fisheries Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1868	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am fully aware of the situation that has arisen since 1996. It turns out that the military leadership in Russia operates the border forces and that, in reality, it is the leader of the North Fleet who authorises research trips or not. It has proved very difficult over a long time through the diplomatic channels of Norway, to get permission to send a research vessel into the Russian zone, so it will be nice to see what comes out of your contacts with the Prime Minister, if he really has control of the head of the North Fleet. There is another question I also want to address in connection with research. Russia has driven an extensive – I would say – commercial fishing under cover of research catches. They have fished blue whiting as pure blue whiting, and they have fished cod as pure cod beyond the quotas they have. Will this also be a theme in the fisheries negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1875	I fully share Mr Bastesen's concern about the further research into fisheries and how the joint tokens between Norway and Russia can be carried out, because it will be very important for the stock estimates and therefore also for the determination of quotas in the future that this research cooperation is going to go according to plan. That is why, on every possible occasion on the Norwegian side, it has been very important to bring up with the Russian authorities that we need to get started together again. In 1999, there was a bright spot in the fact that the Russian authorities were more open again, at the beginning of 2000, the situation has been reversed. So now there are new signals from the Russian side, and I can assure you that there is a common strategy from all the Norwegian authorities that has the opportunity to address this issue with Russia and is now working on these issues. When it comes to other questions at the meeting of the mixed commission, we get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1882	So we go back to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1888	This question, from Odd Einar Dørum to the Prime Minister, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1891	I allow myself to ask this question, which will then be answered by the Minister for the Environment: ‘Coordinated property development in Bjørvika is necessary for urban development in the area and for contributing financially to the sink tunnel, which is a prerequisite for this development. The properties in the area are owned by various state and municipal enterprises. Oslo Port Board has opened up urban development in the area, and Oslo City Board has unanimously agreed to join a joint development company with the state. When will the State, as the owner, speak with one voice and enter the development company?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1900	The Ministry of the Environment, as the top level planning authority, has had a central responsibility for coordinating the state interests of Bjørvika. The Ministry has, among other things: led a working group of representatives of the main landowners and the Municipality of Oslo, which has assessed different models for the implementation of urban development. The coordination function of the Ministry shall be continued. NSB Eiendom, in cooperation with the property company Linstow, has established the development company Oslo S, which includes the areas of NSB Eiendom in the area. The Municipality of Oslo has been asked to enter the development company, possibly selling its interests, with the aim of obtaining a property developer responsible for the whole area. The municipality has taken a positive view of such cooperation. The financing of the new E18 in Bjørvika will be partly clarified through the treatment of the national transport plan, where state sub-financing of the sink tunnel has been proposed. It is provided that landowners shall also contribute to the financing of the road project through the capitalisation of the properties. The Municipality of Oslo has decided to contribute directly to the financing. The Ministry of Environment is pleased that the State of NSB Eiendom is thus heavily involved in the development company, in order to achieve a solid land ownership constellation that can negotiate with the State Road Administration on the financing of E18. A rapid clarification of the financing of E18 would be desirable both for the implementation of urban development and for the purposes of the new Bjørvika Opera House, which will have very difficult operating conditions as long as the road conversion is not realised. I will follow developments and continue to work on further coordination of state interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1916	I am of course familiar with the fact that NSB Eiendom is inside the area, and that is positive, but the state, according to my knowledge, also owns areas under the railway works, which are not NSB Eiendom. One also owns properties through the state road system Oslo, and also properties through state buildings. My question is, in principle. All state properties, whether large or small, must be seen as a whole in order to make sense of the overall development of the area. So my question to the Council of State has to be repeated: will all state property interests in the area be preserved in the development company through all the property properties owned by the state in Bjørvika, so that the state has a common voice no matter how it has to be carried out in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1921	We have progressed well in the coordination of state interests and in the cooperation between the State and the municipality of Bjørvika as regards the establishment of the property company that is now in place, which is absolutely necessary for the urban development of the area. This is an important start to continuing the coordination of state interests, a work which obviously must cover all the properties owned by different parts of state interests. The role of the Ministry of the Environment as coordinator for these state interests will continue, and I am pleased that over the past six months, we have made progress in the work, which I think will affect what we get further from here when the property company is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1926	So we go to question 31.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1932	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment the following questions: ‘In large parts of Hedmark, the wolf has led to the fallowing of herds for several years, with the consequences for, inter alia, the cultural landscape. Does the council see this kind of damage, and what does she intend to do with this?"
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1941	Hedmark currently has two family groups of wolves with the entire revir area within the county. The municipalities of Rendalen, Stor-Elvdal and Alvdal are affected by the rivals of these family groups. The reviral areas of the two wolf family groups total approximately. 3 pst. of the land area in Hedmark County. Within the wolf’s revir areas, I have stressed the need to take action to separate the wolf and the bufe, so that the contact surface is as small as possible. This has led to a low level of damage caused by wolves in this area. Actions taken include, inter alia: was the early lowering of the sheep, the inland grazing with electric fences and the movement of the grazing area to a new pasture in the Spækedalen. The area which has not been landed due to different measures is partly compensated for the re-use of land in the Speek Valley for grazing. The cultural landscape shall be managed in such a way as to maintain cultural and aesthetic values, biodiversity and accessibility. It is therefore important to maintain grazing in many areas of the country in order to protect the cultural landscape. Through national registration of valuable cultural landscapes, 112 landscape regions in the country have so far been selected with qualities beyond the ‘working-day landscape’. This is old cultural land that is currently threatened by more intensive cultivation or cessation of farming, as a result of agricultural development. Rare seating areas are examples of such valuable areas. There is little evidence that, in a national perspective, these most valuable areas are particularly affected by the management of wolves. The management of wolves must take place in such a way as to minimise conflicts of interests and cultural landscape interests. For this reason, I have put forward to the hearing a proposal to delimit the area in which wolves will establish themselves in couples and family groups. The starting point for this demarcation is that wolves should not be established in areas with plenty of sheep on the field. In this way, possible conflicts between wolves and cultural landscape interests will also be as low as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1952	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Does the Council of State see that the buffer industry is also involved in the preservation of all the paths that exist in our cultural landscape? Buffe is a great user of the paths that exist, and thus helps to maintain this often very old road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1959	It's obvious that bupe is important for the cultural landscape, and certainly also for paths. But I want to point out what I said in my answer that the challenges of predators are far from the greatest in caring for the valuable cultural landscape we have. Here I would like to say that it is the general agricultural policy and the transfers, among other things. in the case of grants for grazing land, special cultural landscape grants, the monitoring programme for cultural landscapes and other types of agricultural policy schemes which are the most important. And in this area, the representative, Mr Bredvold and I, have different views on how agricultural policy should be conducted, including: the Progress Party has proposed a significant reduction in agricultural aid. And in this sense, I don't think it's predatory policy that's the biggest challenge for the cultural landscape.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1967	This question, from Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Agriculture, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1970	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Agriculture the following questions that will be answered by the Minister for the Environment: ‘In Hedmark, as elsewhere in Norway, the country rents out cultivated land. Will the Council of State open up a practice so that as many stakeholders as possible can rent these areas by introducing a maximum, reasonable lease term?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1979	I see the question as relating to property acquired by the State for rationalisation purposes, either by virtue of the State's pre-purchase right under the concession law or by voluntary purchase in accordance with the law on the land. Such rationalisation property is acquired by the State under the County Agricultural Board in that State through funds from the Earth Fund. The properties, which may consist of both soil and forest, are resold to land seekers as additional land, and the forged purchase price of the Earth Fund goes back to the fund. Most properties will be resold as additional land within a short period of time, approx. one year. For some of the properties, resale may take a little longer. This applies, for example: major forest properties to be distributed among several land seekers. Such properties may also have cultivated land. Otherwise, resale may take some time in cases where land change, make change, nobility and legal disputes are inside the picture. But resale is sought as quickly as advice is provided, also in order to minimise the burden on the Earth Fund. In the period during which the State has rationalisation properties, it is ensured that the cultivated area of the properties is driven away by rental. The area is leased for a limited period either to concession applicants or to land seekers/other stakeholders who can operate it in a rational way. The remuneration is determined on the basis of the principles otherwise applicable in concession cases. On the basis of the fact that the rationalisation properties are to be resold as soon as possible, leases for cultivated land are mainly made on a one-year basis. Only in those cases where it is initially clear that resale can only be made possible if, for example: three to five years, leases are concluded for a longer period than one year at a time. According to the experience of the County Agricultural Boards, the County Agriculture Departments and the Ministry, the operation of the cultivated area of the rationalisation property held by the State operates satisfactorily. There are also no major problems with the rental conditions of these properties. I therefore see no particular need for a new practice, as the representative Bredvold suggests, for the rental of cultivated land on the rationalisation properties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e1996	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I am so pleased with, but it applies to properties that are for resale. The state owns many and large properties, including: The area around airports – I am thinking especially of my home country – and there may be pastry farms and other real estates that the state does not intend to sell, but on which you have to sit for some reason. What is important to me is that there are almost equal rules throughout Norway, so that as much as possible they can be rented by setting a maximum lease term, that it is done on tenders where it is useful, that those who are hired, preferably settle in the municipality concerned, that the right professional background is present, etc. – i.e. equal relationships across the country. I think, as I said, especially of properties that the government has been sitting on for a number of years.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2003	In the case of rationalisation properties, it is not appropriate to involve as many stakeholders as possible in rental since the time of rental is limited. Therefore, it is not appropriate for the properties to practise longer lease time than the one-year agreements for areas to be resold. In the case of other properties owned by the State – which may be the ones the representative mentions, or which may be property owned by the State Forest or the Defence – in very few cases there will be land cultivated. But to the extent that it is, the same principles will be applied across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2013	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: «According to a notice published in the Official Journal of Bergen on 10 October 2000, a Somali with a fuselage judgment has stabbed and attempted to rape a female landlord of the furniture in which he lived. According to the article, the man was recommended by a person who was on the display of the hybel, and it turns out that this person represented criminal custody in freedom. The woman was not made aware of this, nor was the tenant's significant criminal scroll. Will the Council of State amend the legislation so that it is required to provide such information?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2022	In my opinion, it should not be such that private owners of homes risk becoming an element of a release and rehabilitation process for persons convicted of serious crime, without knowing it. On the basis of the case in Bergen, I have therefore asked for a review of the legislation and the procedures concerning the relationship between freedom of movement and professional secrecy. Criminal law in freedom is responsible for assessing the living conditions of persons to be safeguarded in freedom. So they must realize that the dwelling is suitable for the convicted person and whether there are elements in the environment that suggest that the convicted person should not live there. The Ministry of Justice has already begun to revise the procedural guidelines in order to avoid a recurrence of what happened in Bergen. A way to go is primarily to use public housing options. However, if private rental dwellings are to be used, it is appropriate to require that convictions consent to the provision of information on a criminal background and, where appropriate, to the disclosure of the convictions themselves. It should then be explicitly stated in the rental contract that the owner of the house is orientated. If the hedge client does not himself contribute to the orientation of the owner of the house, the plan will not be approved and other housing options will have to be sought. Such proceedings will provide satisfactory final results and remain subject to professional secrecy and privacy. A circular about this will be clear in a few days. In conclusion, I would like to point out that, as far as I am concerned, it is not right for him to be active in relation to a recommendation in relation to the information that has come to light that he should have recommended to the person in charge of criminal matters in freedom. But his presence may, of course, have affected the lessee’s assessment. It is therefore important to implement these changes in the procedural guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2033	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I look forward to this legislation being amended, so that you can now avoid experiencing these kinds of episodes in the future. I also fear that there has already been a good deal of other rental conditions in which the lessor has also not been made aware of the situation he is in. I fear, for example. that pedophiles or other criminals of this type may have so-called protection and housing in families with children. I hope this work is really going on now, because it's time we took the victim more seriously than the criminal. Sometimes we have to leave the obligation of professional secrecy to the benefit of the criminal veto and the legal certainty of the country's other citizens. I hope that now the Council of State really keeps moving forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2038	I don't have much to say to the representative Nesvik. I agree that it is important to protect the victim, and that it is the victim or a potential victim that is most important. I am fully committed to this work going quickly. And as I said, we warn that a circular with notice of the changed routine should be clear within a few days.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2047	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘A number of people who have committed crimes are also sentenced to security as part of protecting society from new criminal acts after an end of reconciliation. Does the Council of State consider that current legislation is sufficient to ensure the proper implementation of security in accordance with social protection requirements?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2056	Current legislation on hedges will be replaced in the next year by new legislation on specific criminal law reactions already adopted by the Storting. Changes result from a long process, such as: meets part of the criticism raised against today’s system. The very basis of the safeguard rules is the consideration of social protection. The strong emphasis on this is also maintained in the new legislation. The general experience of today’s rules suggests that protection is implemented in a socially sound way. However, there are examples that persons under a protective regime are able to commit new serious crimes. This is worrying in itself and requires careful consideration of such cases in order to identify the causes of the failure and, where appropriate, to address them. However, failure may not be due to insufficient rules. Regular assessments must be made over the course of a period of protection, including: the level of the hedging measures. But it will always be the protection of society that must and must be given decisive importance. Although the rules clearly state these considerations, it is equally difficult assessments to make on a case-by-case basis. Several agencies are involved in this, both law enforcement, criminal law and, in many cases, psychiatry. The terms and conditions of security themselves are decided by the Ministry of Justice within the framework of the courts. A central theme of assessments is the question of future hazard. These are, by their very nature, difficult assessments. Experience has shown that good assessments are being carried out throughout and that the failures are few. However, there is a need to continue to be committed to strengthening the competence of assessors. Criminal services are now working concretely on the use of recognised risk assessment methods in cooperation with psychiatric disciplines. The adopted amendment to the law on new specific criminal law reactions shall enter into force by means of a separate legislative decision. In the work on the Act of entry into force, I would like to assess whether developments since the 1997 Act require some changes to the rules already adopted in order to strengthen society’s need for protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2069	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I believe that this can be problematic about different elements that may have a bearing on some form of indictment. One is the law itself, and there I think the Council of State gives a clear explanation. It may well be that both the law of the day and the new thing that will come are in itself a tool that is suitable to prevent the kind of events that you like. So in Bergen, takes place. But then you stand back with other explanations. One is the actual practice of the law. I am thinking here especially of the use of professional secrecy. It should have been possible, even within today's legislation, to have a clarification with employees, among other things. in the field of freedom in criminal matters, so as not to give rise to such consequences. What you are also facing is the question of resources for the practice of the law. To what extent do we today have an in-depth protection of prison and criminal services employees in freedom, and not least resources related to psychiatry, which must interact closely with the prison system? I want to hear the thoughts of the Council of State about it – that is, different explanation mechanisms than the law itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2078	I understand both perspectives, both in terms of practice and resource issues. When it comes to practice, there is no doubt that we still have to try to be better at assessing in advance. It's primarily a professional question. Then there's also a question about the level, the balance sheet, is right. I must admit that I find it difficult to know. Therefore, it is important to go through the matters where we see that it has gone wrong. Why did the assessment in Bergen end up in such a way that it was considered safe to freeze? What can we learn about whether the balance sheet is correct or not? In this case it was obviously not correct, but what was the professional error here? In terms of resources, it's clear that it's always a topic. But just in the choice of taking people out of custody in the home, there's no doubt that the very security inside a prison is more expensive than the security, so there should definitely be no resources that are the question, but actually choosing the professionally best solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2090	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘Do the Council of State consider that the police have sufficient authority to inform neighbouring companies, parents, schools, landlords or others of any particular concern, of persons previously convicted of serious crimes, or of other potentially dangerous persons, such as some categories of psychiatric patients?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2097	The police are initially bound by confidentiality about what they learn through their work about the personal circumstances of others, for example. that a person is a pedophile or has a severe mental illness. However, the police can provide information on such confidentiality-related information in order to prevent crime. These provisions do not allow for a general notification of silence-affected conditions. The Supreme Court held in 1994 that there must be objective points of view which give reasonable grounds to fear that a crime might otherwise be committed. In addition, it must be necessary to warn because other options for action are inadequate or inappropriate, and alerts must not appear disproportionate to the information to which they relate. However, the obligation of professional secrecy does not prevent the police from going out and encouraging kindergartens, schools and parents to raise awareness of children and young people. The restrictions only apply when it is appropriate to go out and alert — in particular to name specific pedophiles or other dangerous offenders. I believe that there may be reason to give notice of pedophiles or other potentially dangerous things to a greater extent than what is being done today. A study carried out by the Ministry of Justice in 1998 suggests that the police have been reluctant to notify of such a situation because they have been unsure to what extent they are authorized to notify. The Ministry of Justice will therefore issue, within a few weeks, a circular drawing up detailed guidelines as to when it can and should be notified. In a circular form, the Ministry will state that the police should assess to a greater extent than at present whether alerts should be given to relevant public institutions and, where appropriate, to private individuals on pedophiles or other potentially dangerous persons present in the community. The Ministry will further assess whether the legislation provides sufficient access. First State Attorney Tor-Geir Myhrer of the Riksadvokat, on behalf of the Ministry of Justice, has investigated the issue of professional secrecy, preventing police and other agencies from cooperating. In the light of the investigation, the Ministry will assess the need for legislative changes. I also notice that it is pending this investigation that one has not sent out such a circular as I have already mentioned, at an earlier time. The Ministry of Justice has also set in motion cooperation with other departments to identify the issue of professional secrecy as an obstacle to police cooperation with other public agencies. Consideration shall be given to whether any obstacles can be overcome by practical measures, such as: information and training, or the need for legislative changes. Although I believe that the police should to a somewhat greater extent than today warn of pedophiles or other potentially dangerous criminals living in the community, I would warn against having excessive expectations for such a warning. Experience in other countries suggests that alerts often lead to movement, for example: to the neighbouring company. Furthermore, alerting can provide a form of false security, because knowledge about something cannot prevent other hazardous situations from occurring. Therefore, other measures may well be so important. The safeguard rules, to be replaced by new rules on special reactions, will help protect society from new serious crimes. The rules that the person applying for a job in kindergarten must show a police record should prevent offenders from getting a job where they have close contact with children and young people. Furthermore, the Court of First Instance has recently been obliged to consider the imposition of a loss of rights on specified sex offenders. The purpose is to prevent them from getting work, employment or similar where they are in close contact with children. But above all, it is important that we teach our adults how to behave to avoid dangerous situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2116	The Council's answers to all three of these questions today show quite clearly that we are facing a very difficult area here. I would like both to thank for the answer and to express my view that I am looking with excitement and also with anticipation for new guidelines and the assessments that the Council of State says she is in the process of doing, also assessments of whether there is a need for new legislation, or whether you can get clear guidelines on the promises you have today. What I want to say in concrete terms is that giving clear grounds for an area that is so problematic, obviously not easy. So I would appreciate it if the Council of State might clarify a little bit more if she realized that it is possible within today's law, or if she would come to the Stortinget with proposals for changes to the law, and in particular considering that the police have been detained, whether there can be guidelines that would make the detention somewhat less prominent.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2123	The 1998 survey revealed quite a difference in police districts. Some police districts were much more detained than others. What is at least certain is that through a new circular we can draw up the lines as far as possible within today's law, and thus ensure that the same happens in the other police districts as in the police districts that have used most of the possibilities they have. I think definitely there's room for improvement within the set of rules we have. Then we'll see if there's a need for further changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2131	I allow myself to put the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘In the Haugesund district, in less than one year we have had two examples of missing persons being largely funded by parents and other volunteers. Does the Council of State think this is right in one of the richest countries in the world, and what will the Council of State possibly do to improve this unworthy situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2140	The Ministry of Justice has long been committed to finding a satisfactory solution to public responsibilities in the search for dead people at sea. For this reason, the Crown Prince's Resolution of 7 August 1998 appointed a panel to assess a financing mechanism for the search for dead persons at sea. The committee gave its position in April 1999 and its follow-up is under way in the department. In the current year's budget, the Stortinget, on a proposal from the former government, set aside a total of 8 million. kr to search for the deceased. In St. prp. No 1 for 2000-2001 the Government has proposed a significant strengthening for this purpose by proposing an increase in the budget from 8 million. NOK 25 million. kr. This amount corresponds to the amount estimated by the sample as necessary in that investigation. On the basis of this proposal for appropriations and proposals for the organisation of such a financial instrument, we will be able to establish a worthy mechanism for searching for dead persons at sea, in lakes and in watercourses. With regard to the search for dead people in the Haugesund district, I would like to mention in particular that the Ministry of Justice has contributed approximately to the Sleipner accident. Two million. for the search after the end of the rescue operation. This money is given as an extra appropriation to the Hordaland Police District, which has had the overall responsibility for the searches. In addition, the defence has contributed free of charge by the special vessel KNM Tyr.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2151	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am, of course, aware that the draft budget for next year is spent on the search for missing persons at sea. This is of course a pleasure, but it does not help the relatives who are in the midst of a desperate situation today. I am also aware that KNM Tyr will be used for search in the Haugesund district when it is still in the sea area in question. However, this came about after an enquiry from the representative Hans J. Røsjorde to the Minister of Defence. However, it is a fact that in the two matters I refer here to, the parents and others have had to collect money to search for their closest ones, at least to have a grave to go to in order to remember their loved ones. Does not the Council of States really think this is unworthy of one of the richest countries in the world? And further, will the Council of State open up the possibility that the funds now proposed for search can also be used for search on land if there is uncertainty about the missing person being found at sea or on land?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2158	I'm glad we're about to have a system that should work for the future. I'm also referring to what I've answered in previous questions about searching for dead people at sea, and that's that we're going to look for those who disappear at sea, but at some point you might have applied so much that you have to set a limit on how long you continue. It's a theme in any search, and it'll be a theme in setting up the scheme, how to decide the question: When have we applied for so long that there's no need to seek further? With regard to the last question, about searching for dead people on land, it is not that we are not looking for dead people on land today or that we have not searched for dead people on the sea before. So the police have done that within their budgets, and they will continue to do that. The special thing here is that we have the opportunity to search the ocean where there has been a little bit more uncertainty about where the boundaries went and who was responsible for the search. So I think that this system must primarily be linked to the search of the sea, lakes and watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2165	Question 37 was answered earlier in today's meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2178	This question is postponed to a later meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2184	I have a question for the Minister of Church, Education and Research: ‘The Ministry seems to take a very good time to deal with the Oasen Barneskole authorisation application in the municipality of Songdalen. This appears to be very strange in view of the urgency and effectiveness shown by the Council of State when it came to withdrawing the previous authorisation granted by the Lilletun Council. Does the Council of States also wish to be effective where a positive response is to be expected?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2193	The Oasen Bible Centre applied for approval of the Oasen Children's School under the Private School Act on 9 September 1999, and the Ministry met the application by decision dated 13 March 2000. Following a complaint from the local authority – the municipality of Songdalene – the department converted the decision and rejected the application on 15 May 2000. The decision was appealed by the Oasen Bible Center on June 2, 2000. The approval of private schools under the private school law also implies that the department must recognise the curricula that the schools will use. Oasis Bible Centre applies for recognition as an ACE school. The application from the Oasen Bible Center shows, among other things: that the educational material which the school will use is, in practice, the technical plan of the ACE for the individual subjects. The teaching materials used by ACE schools today, and which Oasen Bible Centres also want to use in their school activities, were sent to the Equality Ombudsman for assessment on 17 July 2000. The decision of the Equality Ombudsman in the case existed on 2 October 2000. The Ombudsman has come to the conclusion that the teaching materials used by ACE schools are not based on gender equality and that the schools using the educational materials are in breach of the Equality Act. ACE Norway has notified that the decision of the Equality Ombudsman will be appealed to the Equality Board of Complaints. Letter to the Ministry of the Church, Education and Research of the Office of Equal Opportunities dated 10 October 2000 states that the Ombudsman assumes that the Department bases the abovementioned decision and does not approve more schools based on ACE education until the issue of the legality of the teaching materials has been decided by the Board of Appeal for Gender Equality. I will follow up the request made by the Equality Ombudsman in this case, which includes: means that the Ministry will not decide on the complaint from the Oasen Bible Centre until the Equality Complaint has taken a decision on whether the educational resources used by the ACE schools are in breach of the Equality Act. It will therefore take some time for the department to decide on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2206	There is something that strikes me as strange in this case, and that is the fact that you do not seem to have clarified this issue of equality at a long earlier time. Equality in this context is a question of vital importance to everyone, and I feel that it is strange that the Department of State at a very early stage has not clarified this issue in connection with the private school law, which we have had for a long number of years now. The follow-up question I then have to ask the Council of State is: What offer will the Council of State now give in the waiting time to the students who per. today does not receive an adequate training offer in the municipality of Songdalen?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2213	I can only join the representative Evje's view that the assessment of the gender perspective in the teaching materials of ACE schools could have been assessed at a much earlier stage. Instead, we can use the phrase "better late than never". At least we got started pretty quickly after I took over as a government council, working to assess the gender perspective in these educational systems. The Oasen Children's School was approved by the Ministry only four days before the government change on 17 March 2000. Pretty soon after we took over, we received the complaint from the host municipality, and we were dealt with the application. In the meantime, from the June 2 complaint from the Oasen Bible Center, it has of course also been summer and summer holidays. It may also be a reason why the matter has taken some time. I just want to end by saying that every municipality has an obligation to provide a training offer for the students in the municipality – so also the municipality of Songdalen. Of course, when you do not have a private school offer you want to use, the municipality has the responsibility to provide the education for the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2230	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2236	This question, from the representative Kristin Halvorsen to the Minister of Church, Education and Research, will be raised by Helge Bjørnsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2239	I will ask the Minister for Church, Education and Research the following questions: ‘In the State budget for 2000, it was estimated that the proportion of primary school graduates accounted for about 2 % of the total. One hundred million. krones. There is reason to believe that part of the self-payment is contrary to the Training Act. All indications are that the self-payment has increased after the ministry's previous survey. Will the Council of State take the initiative to obtain an up-to-date overview of self-payment in primary schools, and will the Council of State require municipalities to remove any self-payment practices that are contrary to the Training Act?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2248	I expect the representative from SV to refer to the survey on self-payments in primary school for the 1996-97 school year, which was mentioned in the 1998 state budget. The survey showed that the total self-payment in primary schools amounted to approximately 93 million. kr. The principle of the Training Act is that all primary education should be free of charge, cf. Section 2-1 of the Training Act. Here's what it says: ‘The Community shall keep pupils in primary school with textbooks, writing and drawing material and other teaching materials.’ In my view, this is a very important principle. The rule has previously been stated in the primary school law. There has therefore been no amendment to the legislation at this point in connection with new training laws. In the study referred to here, it turned out that very few schools paid for educational materials and equipment. The total own-payment for these purposes amounted to approximately 1.9 million. NOK, which is definitely SEK 1.9 million. NOK too much. Although the majority of municipalities and schools report that self-payment does not occur, a small number indicated that students had to pay for, among other things. dictionaries and calculators. I am of the opinion that this is material and equipment that should be free of charge under the law. In the case of excursions, 81 pst stated. of the municipalities that they took their own payment, and 84 pst. of the municipalities paid on their own in connection with camp school. It's worrying that 81 pst. Of the municipalities participating in the survey, the self-payment was made by excursions. These are expenditure to be covered by the local authorities under the Training Act. In the case of camp school training, the self-payment question is somewhat more complicated. The self-payment study at primary school was followed up by the fact that, in the course of their supervision of the school owners, the education offices of the State would follow up on the fact that all primary education should be free of charge. From the Ministry’s point of view, it was specifically pointed out to the education offices of the State that municipalities would cover all expenditure on primary school education, for example, also expenditure on excursions. The survey shows that a large proportion of municipalities make own payments in connection with camp school. Municipalities may not make a self-payment in connection with the teaching of a camp school. Otherwise, it was taken into account in the preparatory work of the law that municipalities can charge for travel, diet and lodging related to a truly voluntary camp school. In order for parents and students not to experience any offer of camp school education as an economic pressure, the school must ensure that the offer is presented in such a way that it is perceived as a genuine voluntary offer. Furthermore, camper schooling has to have an economic framework that allows all students who want to participate to actually get that opportunity. Whether the municipality can make a self-payment, if any, will have to be based on a concrete and discretionary assessment of the individual case. The Government proposes to include the earmarked grant for clay school education in the 2001 state budget into the framework grant for municipalities. This includes, inter alia: made on the basis that the reform 97 curriculum emphasises the use of several outdoor and outdoor activities within the framework of normal education. The earmarked state grant has helped to keep an eye on the need for municipalities to provide an offer of clay schooling. The intention of the law is that it should be up to local priorities to choose which outdoor and outdoor activities are best suited. Sometimes it can be camp school, in other cases other activities. It will also help to dampen the payment pressure in connection with camp school. It is very worrying that several municipalities charge their own payments for primary education. I would like to see whether there is a need to carry out a new parental pay survey in primary school to see if the measures taken by the Ministry are sufficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2272	I am so pleased that the Council of State will take a closer look at the question. I would have been more satisfied if the council had said the problem would be solved. It is true that in the case of the current year's budget, the KS says that there is a lack of approx. NOK 2 billion for municipalities to be in the same situation as last year, which is a deficit situation. In the municipality I come from, Stange municipality, we have done such an investigation, and it turns out that each student grants a grant to the municipality of Stange in the order of approximately 100 dollars a month. We have a new curriculum. Excursions and projects are necessary to complete the curriculum. We can't do that. I wonder if the Council of State has any reflections on how much more money the local government sector needs to be able to give priority to this task, which is necessarily down to the priority lists.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2279	The regulatory time of the morning meeting is now at hand. However, the President will propose that we continue negotiations until the current map has been completed. - It's passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2282	I fully share with the representative Bjørnsen's view that the local economy is of course crucial for the kind of self-payment pressure you get in school. That is why we have put forward a government budget where the municipal economy is a priority, where the transfers to the municipalities are increasing sharply, and which I hope will also lead to the school becoming a higher priority. But it is part of local democracy that each municipality itself determines how much they spend on their economy for school and health, and also to what extent part of the income opportunities the municipalities have, are used and used in full. But of course, all municipalities should deal with the law that we have, and the law is very clear in relation to self-payment in primary school. Primary school should be free, it should be accessible to everyone, and I intend to follow it up, both by ensuring that the laws are complied with, and by looking at the need for a review of the self-payments, but also in the future provide an even better community economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2287	We're now going back to question 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2293	My question to the Minister of Culture is: ‘1. In October 2000, new rules for the sponsorship of TV would have entered into force. This did not happen, and the case is now suspended indefinitely. There are many, especially the country’s local TV stations, which are uncertain about the impact this has on their conclusion of sponsorship agreements for 2001. Can the Council of State calm the country’s local TV stations by stating that the new regulations will not enter into force until 1 January 2002 at the earliest?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2302	The amendments to the regulatory framework for the sponsorship of broadcasting programmes are a follow-up to decisions taken by the Stortinget in December last year. It does not result in the application of the rules being suspended indefinitely. The aim was to bring the rules into force on 1 October of this year. For various reasons, work has been delayed. I now aim to ensure that the rules will be put into effect from the next turn of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2309	I just want to make a comment on the last one: we were told that the matter was postponed indefinitely because the department had not finished dealing with the hearing opinions. What is happening now is that there are more than 20 local TV stations in Norway who feel that they have become victims of a problem that is really between the NRK and the large commercial national channels. Local TVs have established themselves in recent years as a serious media service in the community, and we think they should have been supported rather than hindered. What has happened now is that the framework conditions that were known when the owners applied for a concession and made significant investments have changed. What local TV is now saying is that it is difficult to be serious about local TV for the future. So you can wonder, what can the Council of State do to make it a little bit easier for local TV in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2316	I agree with the representative that local television is an important asset that deserves support, and this results in the correctness of the fact that the major controversy surrounding these issues has mainly been related to the NRC and the major actors. I want to do everything in my power to contribute to rapid processing, so that there are no unnecessary problems for local television operators.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2321	Question 16 has thus been dealt with, and we go to today's last question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2327	It's an honor to have the last question. I have this question for the Minister of Culture: ‘Cultural boat ‘Innvik’ is Norway’s floating culture house. For 12 years it has served as the arena of art and culture dissemination for the whole of coastal Norway. There is a risk that the Culture boat A/S may cease operation if it no longer receives State grants. As a result, people along the coast have less opportunities to experience art and culture. It will also go beyond the efforts of the ‘cultural school bag’ in coastal municipalities. Why does the Council of State consider that ensuring the operation of the Culture boat A/S is not a State responsibility?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2338	The proposal to wind up the earmarked grant for the Norwegian Culture Boat A/S is in principle justified. As you know, the Government promoted the proposal to wind up the grant in the 2001 Community Economic Proposition. The proposal is part of reducing the number of earmarked grant schemes in order to reduce the detailed government of municipalities and county municipalities. Earmarked grants have been justified by important national considerations. The proposition emphasises that the Storting has on several occasions stressed that the main revenue base for municipalities and county municipalities should be the so-called free income, i.e. tax receipts and framework grants. It was also pointed out that in the examination of the National Audit Office’s audit of earmarked grants, the Grand Duchy’s Supervisory and Constitutional Committee itself found that the Grand Duchy has not complied with the majority’s objectives for transfers between the State and the municipality. During the examination by the Storting of the municipal economic proposal, the Municipal Committee supported the proposal for further inclusion/disclosure of earmarked grants, and the majority of the Committee did not comment on the closure of the grant to the Norwegian Culture Boat A/S. It is therefore an overall assessment that underlies the proposal to wind up the earmarked grant. I am familiar with the fact that the boat has an important function in terms of art and culture dissemination along large parts of the coast. First of all, it is Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane that are the large user groups, but also other states have enjoyed visiting the Norwegian Cultural Boat. Of many, the boat is referred to as a floating culture house, and I therefore believe that the operation of the boat must be a regional responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2351	I would first like to thank you for your answer. But I think it's very sad that an overall assessment is going to hit the coasters this way. I also think it is sad that the Ministry of Culture and the Government are not gradually beginning to realize that this has not been about earmarked grants for two counties, but that these two counties have acted as a sort of mailbox for the grant to the cultural boat. I would like to challenge the Council of State on this point: does the Council of State agree that the cultural boat is essential for the participation of young people along the coast in the «cultural school bag», or «cultural nista», as it is called in More and Romesdal? Møre and Romsdal counties have calculated with «Innvik» in the county's further follow-up of «Kulturnista». If we agree on that, can we also agree that the other states and cultural institutions do not have to rely on Hordalands and Sogn and Fjordane's facilities to access the boat? For that is the reality if the State grant ceases to exist and operates up to the counties. I would encourage the Council of State to advise its own party traps to help maintain the state subsidy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2358	I fully agree with Mr Valle that in all the years that «Innvik» has been at sea with cultural programmes, it has represented an important addition to the other cultural activity in Coast Norway, both for children and young people. It has offered music, theatre and literature in places where it has not always been as easy to get such an offer. Nevertheless, I must stress what the Government has proposed, that the further operation of the culture boat «Innvik» is a municipal responsibility. As we already know, there have been significant increases in the framework of the local economy. I believe that local cultural politicians are the best ones to assess who will be supported in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-18.ana.ud2403e2371	There is no record.
