ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e27	Honourable co-representatives! Former P.A. Aslaug Fredriksen is dead, 81 years old. Aslaug Fredriksen was elected as a member of the local government of Sunndal from the Christian People's Party in 1967 and served as a member of the local government until 1977, when she was elected to Stortinget. She was a member of the Presidency from 1971 to 1975. For a short period she was also a member of the More and Romsdal county. At Stortinget, she sat for two periods, first as a member of the Fisheries Committee, then as a member of the Social Committee. Aslaug Fredriksen will be remembered as a positive, open and warm person. She was much in demand as a speaker, and she traveled a lot to visit the locals and counties throughout the country. But in particular she became known in her own home country, More and Romesdal, by visiting the local laws or by celebrating in different contexts. She had the ability to inspire and engage others. Next to her policy, she gave much of her time and commitment to mission work and in the context of community councils. Aslaug Fredriksen engaged in a wide range of things. For many years she was a member of the Norwegian Mission Board for More and Romesdal. Protection of marriage and family lay close to her heart. But she also had important jobs in financial and business activities. She was a member of the main board of the People's Security Fund for six years, of which Vice President for two years. She was a member of the Board of Directors of the Business Bank A/S, Trondheim, and has been a member of the Board of Directors of A/S Fiskegreditt for several years. For many years she was a member of the Norwegian Mission Board for More and Romesdal. With Aslaug Fredriksen, a warm and socially engaged person has gone away. Those who worked with her remember her as a steady, gentle and pleasant person to be with. She had many heart matters and stood on her opinions, but at the same time she met her opponents with openness and respect. That is why she was well-like and deeply respected for what she stood for. We light peace on Aslaug Fredriksen's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e48	The representative John Dale, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The called alternate of Oslo, Berit Kväven, has taken his seat. The request for sick leave has been submitted by the Right-wing Group to the representative Bjørn Hernæs for the period from 24 February and until further notice. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the 1st alternate for Hedmark County, Magnhild Afseth Olrud, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the representative Bjørn Hernæs’ leave, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. 2. alternate, Tomas Smedsrud, shall be convened to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e83	Tomas Smedsrud is present and will take the seat. The representative, Erna Solberg, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e88	On behalf of the representative Per-Kristian Foss and myself, I would like to propose that the Government implement measures to ensure free competition in the market for municipal occupational pension schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e93	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e105	At the request of the Committee on Transport, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Advance Party, Christian People's Party and Right 15 minutes each, Center Party, Left and Representative Bastesen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who had to sign on to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e112	Important voices want the Transport Committee to travel around the country and collect money for important road projects. Maybe it's not that far from the truth. Tolls are gradually required to provide significant funds for investment in the road sector. Toll projects are gradually beginning to reach a large extent. But the one who has helped well with this is, to the most extent, former Minister of Transport Dørum, who traveled around the country with his slogan 'Dugnad and Sprat'. All of these toll projects raise several questions of principle in many ways. With tolls, we get more projects started at the same time, but in sum, the government appropriations are going to be the same. Through agreements with toll companies, Stortinget binds itself in several ways to the mast. In the case of reduced frameworks, priority will be given between toll projects and 100 pst. State projects will be difficult. There is no doubt that the latter projects will be the victims. For this reason, we in the Committee have crossed our fingertips and hope for a higher framework than is now the basis of the preliminary draft national transport plan for the next decade. The size will also face a major challenge in the priority of all these toll projects. From a professional and local policy point of view, it has gradually become a practice to promote packages of tolls in heavily trafficked areas. In this context, I would like to stress that these packages must have a relatively long implementation time. Packages usually contain many elements, roads, roads and other environmental, safety and collective actions. It is about large investment amounts and the need for adjustments in the course of the process. In other words, you can say that the road is going to happen while you're walking. This also applies to the implementation of an overall east fold package, of which we are dealing with the first part today. The majority adhere to the principles underlying the implementation of phase 1 of this package. This means that the majority agree that the toll company is allowed to start collecting tolls for partial financing and deployment of E6 and E18 through Eastfold. Furthermore, the company is responsible for borrowing and managing the necessary loans. The Directorate of Roads is authorised to conclude an agreement with the tolling company and to lay down detailed rules for the financial instrument. In the context of the financial instrument, I would like to point out that the Østfold package does not consist of one project, but of several individual projects with different start-ups distributed beyond the implementation period of the package. The rate of implementation will therefore depend on the toll revenue and the annual government appropriations. There is no final estimate of costs and financing arrangements for phase 1, but it is assumed that the country’s contribution is essentially equivalent to a continuation of the level of appropriations in the road map for 1998–2007. The establishment of a State framework and the prioritisation of a single project will have to be brought back in the context of the examination of the national transport plan and the annual budget proposals. Traffic on the highway network in Eastfold has increased by 5 pst in the last six years. per 1 % years. This is twice the national average. This traffic growth is a major challenge in an overall transport planning for Eastfold. Traffic patterns reflect high commuter traffic across the borders of Oslo and high transit traffic to and from abroad; about 80 pst. of the land-based international transport of goods and passenger travel through Eastfold. When the Øresund link is completed, it will provide a better link to Europe both by road and by road. The biggest improvement will be for the railway, and we have to make use of that. I am convinced that rail transport will be the mode of transport of the future through Europe. In the coming years, the main challenges for Eastfold will be: a rapid reduction in the volume and severity of road accidents in developing the transport system and better contact between modes of transport so that transport inside and out of the country is properly served to increase road congestion in urban areas by developing a more appropriate form of service and by reducing road traffic at an increased level of public transport A comprehensive Eastfold package will be an important contribution in this context. Therefore, the majority emphasises the importance of continuing the work on phase 2 and the realisation of an overall package. In the context of the implementation of phase 1, the majority emphasises the provision of good collective solutions to the Oslo area. In this context, the development of the railways in Moss is an important element. The majority add to the expansion of the double track from the Bay of Sand to the new Moss station and ask the Government to return to funding in the national transport plan. The majority also see it as very important that Moss and Borg ports are ensured a good connection with the main road network and rail as early as possible within a single Easternfold package. Finally, I would like to point out that the Østfold County Municipality has established an annual commission in connection with the provision of guarantees. In the past, there has been no practice of allowing guarantee commissions for toll projects on public roads. This is a new principle, and the consequences of such a system are unknown. The majority therefore agree with the Ministry’s conclusion that, in this case, a one-off compensation of 5.5 million would be granted. kr to the county and that it is earmarked for transport purposes. Otherwise, I agree with the Right that the principle of guarantee commissions and the general compensation granted to municipalities for the disadvantages of tolling stations must be discussed in more detail in the national transport plan. Personally, I would say that I am reasonably critical of such arrangements. It is also related to the cost excesses that are gradually being seen on many road projects. Much is also due to local wishes through the planning process. With regard to cost developments from the master plan to the final regulatory plan, we see in many contexts that costs are increasing considerably. Much is simply due to the fact that the municipalities, for example: wish for a new solution for a tribal road through the municipality to facilitate the development of other means related to the tribal road. I would ask the Council of State to pay particular attention to this, because I also believe that this is an important element in cost management for many of our road projects, and I assume that we will come back to when dealing with the national transport plan. Finally, I would recommend the majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e158	E6 Oslo-Svinesund is Norway’s main and most trafficked tribal road and is the main export and import route in Norway. Today, the two tribal roads serve together through Østfold approx. 70 pst. of the country's total goods transported by road to and from abroad per year. years. Of the number of passenger trips per person The day gathered for the car, aircraft, trains and boat to and from abroad went approx. 40 pst. by car over Svinesund and Ørje. The E6 alone has an ÅDT of 15 000 – 20 000 cars, and according to these criteria the road should already be a four-field motorway. The Swedes have already almost built the four-field motorway from Denmark to Norway, and they have done so without tolls. The country of oil Norway is once again setting up its collection fund to re-tax the drivers, with strong support from both the Right Party, the Workers' Party and, of course, the tax-paying centremates. The right, Christian People's Party, Left, the Center Party and the Workers' Party want the drivers to be peeled again – new bomb and new money collection. If it continues in this way, it is likely that toll collection is the largest profession in Norway. We in the Progress Party will show that the state takes in approx. 38 billion kroner on car use, while only 10 billion kroner are spent on the road network by the state. Then we think it is reasonable that the state should take on the construction of the motorways through Eastfold without toll collection. We will also refer to our draft budget, which shows an increase of SEK 1.7 billion to the road sector in addition to the Government's proposals. To Route 1 and Route 6, we proposed an increase of 147 million in 1999. DKK and for the year 2000 SEK 160 million. in addition to the Government's proposals for these important roads. We will therefore propose that: ‘The Government is asking the Government to build E6 and E18 as the 4-field motorway through Eastfold for state resources. The work shall be carried out immediately and without toll financing.’;» I am referring to this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e174	Thore Aksel Nistad has taken up the suggestion he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e177	We are today giving the opportunity to start collecting tolls in Eastfold. The starting point for toll collection is the Eastfold package, which includes an investigation of a comprehensive transport system, tribal roads and road links to major ports, rail and urban transport systems. The Eastfold Pack was launched on the initiative of Eastfold County. They found it necessary to consider financial instruments other than ordinary appropriations in order to achieve important objectives in the fields of public transport, road safety and the environment, as well as ensuring the transport of business. The investigation has divided Eastfold packages into two phases. Phase 1 concerns the development of E6, E18 and railway. The plans add up to the four-field E6 motorway through Østfold. Furthermore, the E18 motorway standard is planned. The last and, for me, perhaps, the most important point in what they have locally referred to as Eastfold Package Phase 1 is the development of the railway towards Moss. It is important that railway and road development is seen in the context, so that the importance of the track for smaller passenger and freight traffic on E6 and E18 is included. It is important both for road safety and the environment. There is currently no final financing plan for the development and the planning basis is insufficient. We do not take a position today on the extent of the development, and we do not take a position on the state's contribution to the development. Individual projects, including both road development parcels and railway improvement, must be brought back. In the first place, we will have the opportunity to say something more about the framework for development when we deal with the national transport plan later in ours. But the final decisions on appropriations will have to be taken in the annual budgetary decisions. So today's decision doesn't give Eastfold any right of way over other states when we get to the tough priorities of later crossroads. There is also a strong consensus on what has been raised by the Right that there is a need for discussion of compensation in relation to toll projects and that the Committee will come back to this in the context of the examination of the national transport plan. There is reason to rejoice at today's decision. The collection of tolls will facilitate a number of important actions in some of our main traffic trails. The traffic on E6, primarily on the route between Moss and Akershus border, is much larger than the road standard suggests. The same is true of several sections of E18. With the expansion we are now developing, we will have a road standard that is more in line with the traffic base. It increases safety and reduces the risk of accidents. And that's exactly a crucial argument. However, I would also like to point out how important it is that railway development in Eastfold does not go beyond road development. It is in this turn the distance into Moss that has been referred to as part of phase 1. I hope and believe that we will be able to do something with far larger parts of the railway through Eastfold, both on the east and west lines. It is important that we do not first build roads and facilitate the use of a private car and then come up with the collective solutions, after the travel pattern has settled down. In these areas of high population density, collective solutions are very important, both for reasons of road safety and for the environment as well as for the promotion of business. In the national transport plan, which we are going to deal with in our own country, it is new and important in relation to previous plans that all transport measures should be seen in an overall context, a comprehensive plan, for better resource use. An attempt is being made in the Eastfold Pack to get such a grip. The total transport system road, rail and port/sea transport in Eastfold provides good opportunities for flexible transport solutions both in and out of the country. In Eastfold there is a strong consensus on the development, and protests have largely concerned the location of the toll stations. The majority also have a note on this in relation to the county road. Christian People's Party supports the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e205	What we are going to decide today is to authorise to start collecting tolls for the financing of E6 and E18 in Østfold, and to authorise the Road Directorate to conclude such an agreement. As several speakers have pointed out, one later, through the annual budget proposals, will come back to the individual projects and the state appropriations associated with them. It's actually worth noting. The reason I mention it is that in recent years the level of funding for Norwegian transport has been at an absolute low level. The majority’s willingness to invest in road construction has not been directly impressive in the last period. It is therefore quite encouraging to read the Government’s description of the importance of E6 and E18, that they have both regional and national importance, and how dangerous these roads are, while seeing the Government’s total lack of willingness to prioritize road construction. And since I see the representative Holten sitting in the hall here, I remember that the Christian People's Party together with the Workers' Party in the last period actually made proposals in this room to reduce the road standard on E18. It contrasts with the description of the traffic situation that is being given today. But it was that time. The government now proposes to solve the problems of parcels and toll financing with a very uncertain state share, packages that are actually not very transparent and – I must also point out – professionally, in my eyes, often very poorly. They are of little commitment to the state, and tolls are to be used for everything between heaven and earth, but as much as possible on the road. I'll come back to that later. One should therefore note that the State’s share in the Eastfold package shall not exceed 50 pst. According to all experience, the country's share is not going to be 50 pst. if the toll revenue is higher than expected, which is actually signaled in the package because it is said that the forecasts are met with accuracy. The result will be that the drivers will probably have to pay much more than what is suggested in this package. For our part, the right-hand side underlines that it is a prerequisite that the state's share should cover 50 pst. of the development costs related to E6 and E18. And then some principal considerations related to toll projects, such as: the rapporteur was also concerned with: The right has actually been a party here in the Chamber that has voted in favour of tolls, and we have done so because we have thought that the projects that have been promoted would benefit in terms of reduced transport costs and also in general to improve road safety. We have voted in favour of them because there has been local political consensus attached to them. But our assumption has always been that such toll projects should not cause the state to reduce over time its road construction efforts in this country. The experience has probably taught us that something else has happened. The parties least involved in road construction in Norway have gradually become the most intense toll finance spokespersons. Of course, there must be a review in the Right related to tolls as such. I'm sorry, because I think it has been good for society to be able to take out the economic gain at an earlier date. But when you see how evolution is, it's obvious. I'm not going to predict what the Right will come to, but we'll probably be something more skeptical, I think, in the future than what we've been to now. This may be good, as it is possible that it will also exacerbate the local political debate on toll projects. It could be healthy, too. Of course, the right is satisfied that one step has been taken further on the E6 and the E18. You world how many times signed have stood on this pulpit and talked about E6 and E18 in this country! So the joy is great, that one. The right also sees the need to do something about the development of the railways in Moss and the port link and all this in order to create a comprehensive transport solution. This is what we will return to in the context of the national transport plan when we see how the priorities are, and not least the economic framework that the majority intends to introduce into Norwegian transport. There are several elements in the Eastfold package to which the right has counter-representatives. Of course, it is problematic to put a bomb on County Road 311 at Kambo to finance the development of E6. This means that drivers who are not going to use E6, but road 311, have to pay for something they are not going to use. If there is no bomb on the road 311, traffic will increase significantly, according to the figures we have been informed. This would lead to accident risks and some other problematic conditions. So we've totally figured out that we can support the setup of the bomb, but must stress that it's extremely problematic. So that's what the rapporteur was talking about, including this with compensation. It's been a wonderful development here. In the case of municipalities, no matter where in Norway — this has nothing to do with the Eastfold package — a system has been introduced to compensate for the bombs you set up. I actually thought that toll applications were promoted because they wanted to finance the projects, and that for that reason, of course, a bomb had to be set up somewhere. And then there's something unheard of, in my eyes at least, that you need compensation to set up that bomb. But the municipalities involved have been suggested such compensation through the planning process, and that is actually so that we have done it before. This has led to the fact that the Right in total, not to be unfair and now to change, has said that we want to participate in this compensation, but we are already signaling, as the rapporteur has also made clear, that when we come to the National Transport Plan, we will probably make comments on proposing that such compensation does not exist in the future. Then we've given a signal that everyone can set up after. What surprises me a little bit more here is – I actually feel it – that the current government has expanded this compensation. I cannot, with my best will, understand the costs incurred by Østfold County Municipality with this project. No human has been able to explain me. Why in the world the county municipality is going to have a compensation of 5.5 million. I don't get that. However, if the municipality of Vestby had applied for compensation, I would have said, of course, that they should, once these other municipalities have also received compensation. Vestby didn't do that to the municipality. For what reason I don't know. But that's the background because the right has said that we'll take the 5.5 million. kr, which the majority propose to go to Eastfold County, and place them on 311, so that the people who drive there and who are to pay will also have something left for this. So some words to our dear party friends in the Progress Party. It can be said very well if the Progress Party is linked to transportation, but it becomes kind of a little bit credible what the Progress Party is doing. It is not the case that the Progress Party in the budget increased the framework for transport. It's not like that. It was the Right that increased its own framework for transportation, not the Advance Party. So the Progress Party has put nothing more into Norwegian commerce than the other majority parties in this Chamber. That they have regrouped or moved money within the transport budget and on their way, is in and on their own right, but you the world, they have cut both in the budget of the fast route and everything between heaven and earth. You ask me, it's directly unprofessional. So the Progress Party doesn't have this money that they're now saying they're going to finance E6 and E18 with, just so that's explained. Because there's a wrong impression. The truth is, this has not been done by the Advance Party. So the job of the Progress Party Group on the Transport Committee is to go to their own group and get the Progress Party on the Stortinget to give priority to transportation. With this, I address the proposal that the Right Party has in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e243	Oddvard Nilsen has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e246	The Proposition on the Eastfold Package includes the establishment of a holistic transport system in Eastfold. In order to achieve the most flexible transport solutions for Europe, it is important to facilitate links between road, rail and port. This is important for industry to be able to choose the mode of transport that is most safe, efficient and environmentally friendly, so that it can develop good arrangements for combined transport. In the proposal on the Eastfold Package, the Ministry of Transport proposes to be able to initiate the collection of tolls in Eastfold as part of the Eastfold Package. At the same time, the Ministry points out that the underlying material is weaker than is normally required for a toll proposition. The Ministry further points out that the final selection of individual projects and their permissions will come in the annual budget proposals. The proposition is therefore primarily an opening to start toll collection for phase 1 of the Eastfold package, which is to be financed by tolls and government funds with 50-50 cost allocation. Although this is not a proposition where the details and solutions of the various projects are to be clarified, the multiple ends to E6 being extended to a four-field path, and remains open so that the E18 on the most busy sections can be extended to a narrower four-field path than the standard. The centre party is on the plural notes. It is important to underline the value of facilitating good collective solutions while at the same time developing road systems. In my opinion, it would be unthinkable to believe that, in the heavily populated areas, we will be able to solve our future traffic problems only by building more and wider roads. This will also be completely irresponsible from an environmental point of view. In the future, more attention should be paid to the emergence of collective solutions. In terms of collective solutions, the development of the railways in Moss is an important element. This route, as far as I know, is not prioritised by the Railway Agency for the first period, and the financing of this route is far from complete. The question is whether good enough work has been done to coordinate plans and clarify financing solutions. One of the main principles of the toll project is that those who use the road and therefore benefit from the repair project will pay tolls. In the toll project in Eastfold, there is a deviation from this principle. I think, as the rest of the majority, that this part of the financing line can be better evaluated, but it is foreseen that the revenue base for toll financing needs to be maintained. In the Eastfold package, compensation has been provided for municipalities that have placed trees in their vicinity. Compensation for toll stations is not automatic in toll projects, but this has sometimes been done. I think there is reason to be aware that if this happens frequently, we may be in the process of introducing a new principle in a toll project, and I am critical of the arrangements for such compensation. I therefore support the Right and others who have expressed in the debate that the question of the compensation mechanism needs to be discussed in the context of the national transport plan. Finally, I would like to add a few comments to the debate that has been going on, where there is clearly a certain competition to be the ones who have the most money for transport. Over the years that we've spent in this booming period, there's been a shifting plurality behind the budgets, but none of the parties with which the centre party has cooperated have been willing to spend more money in the pot than the government party has come with, except for a sum that we got together with the Labour Party. When Right boasts that together with the Progress Party, they have so much more money for transport, there is in the parties' alternative budget, but those funds are not something to be seen when we are going to prioritise with other good measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e267	«...and all the people in the street and in the windows said, "Oh, no, so the new clothes of the emperor are merciless! For a wonderful drag he's wearing on his dress! And as pleasant as they sit!'" That's how the people of Andersen's "new clothes of the Emperor" reacted. It's like listening to the big crowd, reading the notes and studying the surface material. It is spoken and rewritten - quote from setting: ‘The majority see the Eastfold package as an important initiative for the development of a comprehensive transport system covering the E6 and E18 lines, road links to ports, rail and urban transport systems.’ This has been repeated by Mr Røtvej, the representative of Mr Kofoed-Larsen and Mr Ringstad. I feel like the little child in the adventure who cried: "But he doesn't have anything on him!" No, they're not wearing anything. Because what we're adopting here today is Eastfold Pack 1, and it's a clean road package, a pure tribal road package, a pure highway package. Eastfold Package 2 is unclear, without time fixing, without funding, about collective solutions, about rail, about walking and cycling roads. It's talk. The concrete thing is a road package. Yeah, not just that we're adopting a road package. The majority acknowledge in their comments that they ‘have noticed that there is no final estimate of costs and financing arrangements for stage 1’. At a time when open consultations are in line with projects that have blown up all the financial frameworks, see: The Gardermoban and FATIMA decide to launch a project where there is no final estimate of costs and financing arrangements. The Keiseren is not just missing the dress and tow; he does not even wear underwear. But in subjection he is praised for his beauty. Does not the majority believe that they should have a reasonable assurance of costs and funding before large projects are approved? Here's a project for $4.7 billion, I guess. Or is it just to let billions roll without control? An arrangement for new open hearings – which we may not be allowed to attend! On the other hand, the Ministry of Proposition argues that, when railway development is not included, it is because further clarifications of the scope, costs and size of State and local contributions are needed. On the road side, it is decided without knowing. But on the railway side, we need further investigations. But worse still. The majority of the population has repeatedly underlined the importance of transport modes, environmental and road safety. It's completely blown away in the Eastfold package. An overall committee said in its treatment of the railway plan: ‘The Committee considers that it is also important to see the rail offer in conjunction with other parts of the transport system.’ Yes, the Ministry acknowledges in response to questions that they do not have investigations of recent dates that can tell us anything about the traffic between road and rail, which may say something about the impact of a double-track modernised railway on road traffic. They do not know what a 160 km/h average speed railway with good regularity and high frequency can conquer by road traffic. That is how environmental policy must be pursued, rail competitiveness must be strengthened. When we discussed the basis for transport policy nearly four years ago, a joint committee said: ‘The Committee believes that a strategy to increase resource use for the most environmentally friendly modes of transport will be a topical issue for years to help reduce environmental problems.’ That's what a whole committee said. An overall committee followed it up when the treated railway plan barely three years ago: ‘The Committee indicates that the railway is an environmentally friendly and road-safe mode of transport.’ Yes, traffic-proof mode! The Minister of Transport recently launched his zero vision, zero killed and zero seriously injured in traffic, but provides figures on what railway can mean for road safety, which at best can be called hesitation. The ministry has not learned the lesson. They have not even figured out what should be the lesson in focusing on the environment and road safety. It makes me think again of the emperor's new clothes, when the emperor sent his old, real minister to the two frauds who worked with the empty tissues: ‘God keep me well!’ thought the old minister and played his eyes up, ‘I can’t see anything!’ But he didn’t say that.’ This is the way it is today, except that the minister is not that old. But he can't see anything about the environment and road safety either. There's one party I'm not going to criticize in this context. It's the Progress Party. They have never had any objectives to see transport modes in the context. They have never given priority to the environment and road safety. They're the knights of the highway, and today they get what they want. From SV's point of view, there is only one thing to do: send the package back and ask for a new layout where the following elements are: Road and rail development is seen in a context. Port connections, including by rail, are included in the package. Road investment is fully paid through toll financing. The State is making use of railway development funds at least equivalent to the income paid by road users through toll financing. Then we get speed on the railway development in Eastfold. This could mean real strengthening of rail as a mode of transport in a market where it has a high potential. Eastfold is a large commuter state, and a fast, high-speed railway with high take-off rates and precise rates can win large market shares. In the future railway in Eastfold, the driving time would be between e.g. Oslo and Moss go down from 42 minutes to 26 minutes. Yeah, we get to Halden, it goes down from 1 hour and 50 minutes to 1 hour and 5 minutes. There are no roads that can compete with such driving speed — at least there should be no one, because there will be a dangerous road. Whether the drivers pay 25 or 30 kroner instead of 15 kroner, and the double for large vehicles, is to live with. When one passes the toll projects in the districts, the price is often the multiple. Then you have solved the case, but above all, you have gained speed on the development of the railway. When concepts such as public transport, road safety and the environment are drawn into the justification of the Eastfold package by both the road office and the county council as well as the majority of the transport committee, it is pathetic, because there is no tab of it. Dressed up all the phrases are a pure motorway package. The representative of Ringstad said that this must be taken into account in the future, that you will see this better in the context. Yes, but that's now we're going to create the future. It is now time for us to build the transport system with which Eastfold must live. That's now we're tying the funds. It's too late to say that you have to come back to it in the future when the funds are tied up. I must finally say as the boy in the "Keisen's new clothes": "But he doesn't have anything on him!" I would like to promote the SV's proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e362	Inge Myrvoll has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e366	For many, Eastfold is the gateway to or from Norway. Thus, it is not just those who live in Eastfold, who are occupied by the transport years in and through Eastfold. The Eastfold package includes the establishment of a holistic transport system in Eastfold. My impression after the trip of the Committee on Transport to Eastfold is that it is a state of distances between cities and towns that offers great opportunities for good collective solutions for passenger transport and freight transport. It is a multi-port state that makes it possible to integrate land and maritime transport. Eastfold also has two routes which are used as main access and main entry points to Norway, namely E6 and E18. With the high growth in the transport of goods by road that we have today, it is important that these two main roads have a capacity that can take the traffic load that one sees developing. For the Left, road safety is the most important thing, and with a goal of reducing the number of accidents that cause many fatalities and serious injuries, the Left will go in for an extension of E6. On the left, however, there are more doubts as to whether the expansion of a narrower four-field profile of E18 is necessary. For the Left, it is important that the organisation of good collective solutions to the Oslo area must come in phase 1. Hence, the Left believes that an extension of the double track from the Bay of Sand to the new Moss station must come in phase 1. The opening of the Øresund link will provide better links with Europe, both for road and rail. The left will highlight the possibilities that arise when it comes to developing the railway to take a greater part of the freight. This will reduce the strong increase in traffic that we see developing on our road network. If the Left were to set the priorities for the Easternfold package, some of the Phase 2 projects would be prioritised in Phase 1. It is therefore very important that the work on phase 2 continues, so that cities can continue to strengthen and develop their transport systems, rail and public transport facilities. Several have been concerned with the principle of compensation for tolls. I just want to signal that the Left supports the Right's proposal to address this in relation to the National Transport Plan. I'm very skeptical that a person should be compensated for having a toll station in his municipality or his county. The thing we are handling today is a proposal to start collecting tolls. The final selection of a project and its permissions will be in the annual budget proposals. The left side supports the currently selected multi-digital setting. But I would like to say that when we deal with the national transport plan, we are probably going to have a very high priority when it comes to the toll packages that are leading, and all the challenges that we see in Norway today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e379	First, I would like to express my satisfaction that there is such a broad consensus on saying yes to the Eastfold package, which everyone except SV believes is an important initiative to develop a comprehensive transport system covering the E6 and E18 routes, the road link to the ports, the railway and the urban transport system in Eastfold. Of course, it is true that there is a great deal of emphasis now on providing the extension of E6 to the four-field motorway and E18 to the motorway standard throughout the county. With the strong traffic growth and too many traffic accidents – many unfortunately with death – we cannot say no to the concrete plans on the table for the development of these two tribal roads. We just can't afford to leave it. I also think it is appropriate to stress the strong desire of Eastfold county to achieve important objectives in all parts of the transport sector. In fact, in the investigation mandate given to the Road Manager in Eastfold in December 1997, there was a desire to explore alternative funding to develop a comprehensive, environmentally friendly and road-proof transport service, which included both the road system, the pedestrian and cycle network and public transport by bus and rail. In other words, the county council asked for a comprehensive plan for the development of the entire transport sector in Eastfold. This has been the case for the road manager and his many employees in the county council, at the county council, in the railway works, the aviation industry, the coastal works and the state road network. In addition, the Eastfold Package has engaged all the municipalities concerned and their inhabitants in a strong and positive way. It is therefore directly template-placed to claim, as SVs Inge Myrvoll does both in the setting and now in his post, that the Eastfold package sails under a false flag, that the Eastfold package is only a clean road package. Of course, the ambition has been to obtain financial solutions to expand E6 and E18 as planned. However, it is equally important that the Stortinget now also provides clear leadership in the Moss rail bet, which means expanding the double track from the Bay of Sand to the new Moss station, subject to local contributions. And I'm sure that community is setting up to provide this economic basis. It is in my opinion positive that this view stands for the Workers' Party, together with the government parties. I also assume that the Right wants such an extension, as one can read from the committee setting. It should therefore be possible, with a proposal for a financing decision to be submitted to the Stortinget later, to resolve one of the main rail bottlenecks. A railway extension in Moss by following option 2B would obviously also have an effect on the rate of development of the railway on the southern route in the county up to the national border. The Committee on Transport is well aware of this development of the railways and has also, in the past, underlined the need to improve transport solutions especially for the Moss industry. The committee has previously assumed that the ministry will follow this up, and I am sure it will. The rapid development of this route is important in order to allow more people to travel by collective means of transport between Eastfold and Oslo. Moreover — and this is quite important — such a development will improve train provision on one of the most important routes between Norway and Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e398	The requirement to extend E6 to the four-field motorway is not up-to-date. Already in 1962, the Directorate of Roads created a plan for the construction of four-field roads in Norway. Then the directorate suggested that parts of the E6 had to be expanded within 10 years, and that the entire stretch between Oslo and Svinesund had to be completed by 1980 anyway. Now it's the year 2000. Eastfold package includes road and rail development. One would think that a package would contain something positive, which packages most often do. However, the Eastfold package is not a gift package for the county or its inhabitants, nor for those who use the E6 and E18 routes for different purposes and purposes. E6 through Eastfold County is, as is well known to all, the most widely used vitrace of the surrounding world around Norway and Europe. The users of the herd-weed breeds E6 and E18 should be so well paid for the use of these routes, despite the fact that these sections of the road have been paid for the longest through drivers in the form of charges for car use. The Eastfold drivers alone have now paid around 6-7 pst for several decades. total of different car charges per year, and they have been eaten with around 2 to 2,5 pst. in the form of road-development backflows and for strengthening programmes in Eastfold. It is therefore very strange and incomprehensible that the Right joins the Workers' Party and applauds the Eastfold package, when they know that it is the drivers who get the extras by using E6 and E18 through Eastfold County, by having to pay tolls. But it's not the first time that the Right takes advantage of lightweight socialist solutions by putting even greater burdens on the drivers. It's nothing new. There is no guarantee that an E6 extension in Eastfold will be completed as a four-field motorway. That doesn't make any sense in the documents. And when you know that road sections that have so-called profitable bombing projects for the state elsewhere in Norway, the uninhibited is used as a dairy cow to include other projects, I'm afraid that the bombs in Eastfold may not necessarily be removed until you may reach retirement age, if you're so lucky at all that you're alive. It'll probably be like this for Eastfold that time goes by, but the bombs are still there. Norway is lagging behind Sweden and Denmark, which in a few years will conclude the intention of «Nordic Triangle», which will go on the four-field motorway standard from Copenhagen to Stockholm to Oslo. In Sweden and Denmark, this soon becomes a reality; in Norway, it is still a dream. Neither Danes nor Swedes have anything called road toll financing. These are strange, strange schemes that the oil nation is bringing with it almost like a generation from past times and political regimes. If the choice is between spending money on the road or on the railways, the choice for the Progress Party is easy, because we choose forward-looking solutions. And we're clear: the funds must be used on the road before anything else, that's what the infrastructure in Eastfold needs. The needs of business are good enough roads, and that is soon. It's via the highway the transport goes first and foremost, and something via maritime transport. It turns out that only approx. 3 pst. the goods pass through the railway in the Eastfold state. Although there is a political majority in the various Eastfold municipalities for the implementation of toll financing, there is more evidence of the failure of government authorities to give priority to road projects in the county, where funds are constantly being channelled to the districts of Utkant-Norway. However, even if municipalities want to pay toll financing schemes, nobody wants a bombing within their own municipal border. There is still little emphasis on how hard the population protests at the introduction of bombings in the county. It is subordinate to most politicians. There is only one party that has a policy that is consistent with the wishes of people and drivers in this context, with the rapid expansion of E6 and E18 in Eastfold County – it is unnecessary for me to mention which party it is. It is the ability of will to want to remove bottlenecks between Akershu County border and Svinesund Border Station, and that is the will that not everyone has – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e417	The development of E6 and E18, rail, ports and the link between road, rail and port in Eastfold will be very important for the country ahead. Eastfold is a country with great importance for our flows of goods, both exports and imports. For all of us, it is important that the channels to the markets are as good, efficient and flexible as possible. In addition, it is of course essential that these transport channels have sufficient capacity. This is the background to the Government's promotion of the Eastfold package. And that's not just the concern of Eastfold we've been focusing on this matter, but the whole country. It is equally important that trucks do not queue through Eastfold, as it is to ensure good accessibility on low-traffic roads near the exporter and importer. A comprehensive approach to the development of transport in Eastfold, as we are now proposing, will therefore enable businesses and the population throughout the country to provide safer, more predictable and more efficient transport. As most people know, roads through Eastfold have too poor standards in relation to their function as transport corridors, and perhaps even more important, in relation to the expected traffic loads of today and the future. I therefore believe it will be important that it is quickly opened to repair E6 and E18 through Eastfold. I am therefore very pleased that a majority in the Committee seems to support the implementation of the Eastfold package in two phases and that, in this context, it is agreed to begin toll collection in Eastfold as part of phase 1 of the package. However, I have recorded that there may have been some doubt as to the extent to which the Moss railway project is part of phase 1 of the Eastfold package. To clear up any misunderstandings, I would like to stress that the Moss railway is part of the first phase. I record the Committee's emphasis on this, where the department is asked to add up to the expansion of the double-track from the Bay of Sand to the new Moss station in phase 1, assuming local contributions. As mentioned in the proposal, I propose to come back to this matter in connection with the national transport plan 2002-2011. In Moss there is a municipal government decision that the municipality has agreed to guarantee 150 million. kr, which is entered into the project by taking over state properties released in the realisation of the project. Furthermore, I have noticed that the majority of the Committee points out that Moss and Borg ports are among the largest ports in the country, and that there is a need to upgrade the access routes to these, so that we can achieve coherent transport systems between rail, sea and road. I agree with that, of course, and this will be further worked on. However, it has been important for me and the Government to get the Eastfold package started as quickly as possible, and therefore the proposition could not already cover all the requested measures in Eastfold. It's important that we don't lose too much in the beginning, but that we take the measures in the future. With the development that we are now sketching, and with the importance of Eastfold in the transport system, it would be natural for ports to be part of an integrated network. In addition, the vote shows that a majority asks the Ministry of Transport, in cooperation with toll companies and the municipalities concerned in Eastfold and Akershus, to further assess the location of the bomb on County Road 311. Here I would like to point out that there have been thorough assessments of this matter in advance, also from the county council. However, in the light of the Committee's comments, we will of course review this. However, it is important that this issue does not result in the whole package being released. In such cases as this, the existence of local initiatives is an important prerequisite. I am impressed by the considerable local commitment shown in Eastfold, with a view to improving the situation on the roadside of the county. This commitment has been important in my assessment of the matter, and I have placed great emphasis on the local connection to the first phase of the Eastfold package. It's always easier to do things when we all go in the same direction. Finally, let me say once again that the Stortinget seems to accept the outlined extension. This will be a first and important boost for both business and population, and I believe the Eastfold package will have both local, regional and national significance. However, it is important that we do not forget that much work remains. This is the phase that has now been clarified, but to an equal extent the next phase of the Eastfold package. However, access to toll collection in Eastfold will be an important first step in an overall development.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e441	Very few, if any, disagree that the main years of communication between Norway and the rest of the world are too poor. Today's E18 and especially E6 are dimensioned for traffic far below what we have today. At the same time, there is reason to ask questions about whether the big increase we've had in recent years, especially on the E6, is desirable. In my opinion, as much as possible of the increase in traffic we have experienced, and are still going to experience, should have happened for collective transport. In this particular case, we are talking first and foremost about rail. There is no doubt that the new double track between Ski and Moss should have come much earlier than it did, and there is no doubt that further development of the railway southwards from Moss should have had a different pace than it has had. If we cross the borders of Sweden, we have seen great willingness in recent years to upgrade both road and rail connections to Norway. It is positive that one in the work on the Eastfold package has tried to see the whole transport system in Eastfold in the context of road, port and rail. Perhaps, therefore, the so-called phase 1 of the Eastfold package should have been more binding in terms of the development of the railway. In the Government's proposal, a number of reservations have been made regarding the development of the Moss rail system. I am pleased that the Council of State now established that the development of the Moss rail system will be part of phase one. It is no wonder, however, that the Committee questioned this when it called for: ‘The Ministry of Transport considers that there is a need for further clarification of the railway section in phase 1 of the Eastfold package.’ And on the other hand, ‘Therefore, the Moss railway is not included in stage 1 of this round.’ Furthermore, reference is made to the fact that priorities for railway deployment will be included in the national transport plan. Yes, rail priorities must be included in the national transport plan, but they must also be part of the development of E18 and E6 by the country. It is defensive that one takes all possible reservations about the development of the railway for the treatment of the national transport plan, while one does not take the same reservations as regards the construction of the road. I ask the Minister of Transport to continue working, and I also ask him to note the tightening of the majority of the population, the Labour Party and the government parties, have done at this point. It was extremely unclear in the text of the proposal on the development of the Moss railway was part of phase 1 or if it was not. I am pleased that today we have been told that it will be part of phase 1. The majority say that it should be added to the construction of double tracks from the Bay of Sand and to the new station in Moss in Stage 1. So a few words about a completely different problem. As part of the financing of Phase 1 of the Easternfold package, a two-way toll station at E6 has been established at the district border between Akershus and Østfold. No tolling stations are popular, but this tolling station has most understanding, as it is precisely E6 that needs to be expanded. Then it is much more problematic that the corresponding two-way toll station has also been added to the road between Son and Moss, despite the fact that it is not planned for the road to be upgraded with a single crown. So the people in the Son area who travel daily to and from Moss, either to work, school, or to a doctor or hospital, would be involved in financing a road system they would not use. Once the Storting has previously approved toll projects, the principle one has followed has been that the person using the road should pay. The location of a bomb on the highway between Son and Moss violates this principle, and I have a great understanding that people in the area have seen this as very unreasonable. I am therefore pleased that the bulk of the population now says that the position of this bomb has to be seen at one more time. The Ministry of Transport, the road authorities and the toll company have to go one more round, together with the municipalities of Vestby and Moss, to find a solution that everyone can accept. At least the proposed scheme is not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e469	In all plans and in all budgets since the early 1980s, the importance of E6 and E18 through Eastfold has been described for Eastfold counties, for the whole country and for the flows of goods that have entered and left the country. Unfortunately, this has not resulted in any particular money. On the other hand, we have received a few dollars in small pieces, which has led to the recent use of e.g. eight years to build up 12 km of road, while at the same time costing the country 100 million. kr more than necessary. It is therefore with a bittersweet taste in my mouth that I stand here today to welcome the proposal under consideration, on the collection of tolls for the development of E6 and E18, the so-called Easternfold package, phase 1. Sweet – because we've reached a bit on the way. We have been accepted for the development of E6 and E18, but government funding is to be returned to the national transport plan. Bitter – because one is forced to resort to toll financing to achieve this. The extension of E6 and E18 to the four-field and two-field motorways, respectively, has taken an infinite length of time. It was only when we started to arrange toll financing the expansion that the work really speeded up. But it's sad that one first gets heard when tolls get into the picture. As late as spring 1996, the majority in Eastfold County did not want, with the Workers' Party and the Center Party at its head, some four-field highway in Eastfold. What could we have achieved at an earlier time if the political environment in Eastfold had been united? Fortunately, we have now reached an agreement, which was in December 1997. In the proposition, the government has described the conditions of E6 and E18 very precisely, how miserable they really are and how poor the standard is, in relation to the function of the transport corridor and in relation to the current and future expected traffic loads. And they are very concerned about the evolution of accidents. We've been doing that for quite a while, but we haven't been told. I can agree with the SV that it is right that we today adopt a road package, but if you are allowed to continue working with the entire Eastfold package, it can be a complete traffic solution for Eastfold, both in terms of road, rail and sea. I am pleased with the clarification made by the rapporteur when it came to the development of the Moss railway, and when the Council of State says that this should enter phase 1, it is very positive. The right-hand side is positive for the railway development to go after all. 2 B and have looked forward to this priority that I now expect to come in the national transport plan. It's true that the economic framework is going to be important, but we're now counting as sure that it's going to be within the national transport plan. Most people really want to use the train. I am also of those who use the train every day, but when it is not appropriate, when you do not fit on the train, you use the car instead. That's why it's so important that you get an extension of both the railway and the roads, that it goes hand in hand, and that this is done at the same time. I would also like to make it clear that in this proposition it is assumed that E6 and E18 will not be completed until 2011. But I have to say that with the economy that lies in this project, it is likely to be completed at a long earlier date, but it obliges the state to follow up with its appropriations. I see in the vote that the majority has stressed that there should be a division, it should be 50/50, and then the state must follow up with these means. However, when Sweden is going to complete the E6 on the Swedish side until 2007, it must be reasonable that Norway should also follow up, so that the E6 on the Norwegian side must also be completed by 2007 at the latest. In terms of the actual toll position, I think the solution proposed by the Right is 5.5 million. kr to the municipality of Vestby, must be the right solution, because the combination of the Workers' Party makes it possible to move the boom, but at the same time maintaining the funding, does not go into a pile.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e488	This is a positive day for Eastfold. There are many who have reason to rejoice over what is in the setting and who will be adopted here today. This had never been as good as it has done if not all the county rapporteurs in the head, the municipalities and the business community had stood together in such a difficult case where we imposed tolls on the inhabitants over many years in order to increase road capacity and safer roads. But then there was a recognition for most people that this was the only way to make progress in the development of E6 and E18, as well as in the railways and port roads. We gave the opening to go to partial toll financing. Road appropriations from the country have not increased but declined in recent years, and traffic volumes have only increased, and accidents are increasing with increased traffic. Therefore, it was imperative to do something. What characterises the transport network in Eastfold today — and in particular the road network — both within and outside cities — is that: there is a very strong traffic growth capacity already in several places fully exploited the evolution of accidents is alarming In fact, on a national basis, the traffic growth is estimated to be approx. 1 pst., but we have heard earlier today that in Eastfold we have had a growth that is five times larger, and it says something about the need to do something. A better road network in Eastfold is not something that will only benefit Eastfold, but something that the whole country will notice as positive, for these roads are the two most important years of transport to the continent. Above 70 pst. of freight traffic and 80 pst. of passenger traffic entering and leaving the country on E6 and E18, and this traffic only increases. Only in the last year has Svinesund had a traffic growth of over 11 pst. and ear on over 9 pst. And when traffic increases, we know that the number of accidents also increases if it doesn't. It has also happened on E6 and E18 through Eastfold: 18 killed and many serious injuries are the sad numbers from last year. And here we see the big differences between the new expanded four-field road through Akershus, where there have been very little accidents, and the rest of E6 through Eastfold, where the accidents are many and large. It shows the importance of quadruple roads and separate carriageways when the traffic becomes large. On Wednesday, the municipal committee was travelling in Buskerud, and we experienced the new tunnel connection under the Oslofjorden. I must say, it was an impressive facility. The summer is over and to be put into service. Annual daily traffic is intended for 5,000 cars. A substantial part of this will be large trailers. In addition, the Øresund compound will be opened simultaneously. And I guess no one is in any doubt that this will increase the load on the road network in Eastfold. Therefore, it was impossible to sit still and wait for government appropriations without contributing to self-financing and helping to actually do something, even though it is still a long way off before the roads are completed. It was not easy to place the bombings. In particular, the bombing position on the E18 was subject to many discussions, and that is understandable. Toll financing will never be fair. Some are hit harder than others. The commuters are hit most, and there are many of them in Inner Eastfold. Therefore, I would like to commend the municipalities that took the heavy burden of placing the boom in their municipality, so that the whole matter did not stop. It could have happened quickly. So finally a few words about the Progress Party, which goes against the Eastfold Package. The world is not the party of progress trying to make it. The Progress Party believes that E6 should already have been developed as a four-field motorway through Østfold. It's not hard to join. But there's little comfort to the traffic-killed, because they hurt and their closest, as long as we don't get it done without through toll financing. During this major period, the Progress Party and the Government have been budgetary cooperation partners, and no further road payments have been made to Eastfold. What's happened is that there's actually been less money going on. The Progress Party has been involved in determining and exerting decisive influence over it. It shows the need to adopt the Easternfold package with partial toll financing, as we are doing here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e517	The progress party wants to fully extend the E6 and E18 to the four-field motorway. Let's be clear. But road development will take place without toll financing, and we have a concrete proposal in the vote on this. The political majority accepts the use of tolls as part-financing for the deployment of E6 and E18 through Eastfold. A common reason is that this is the only way to raise road projects in the expansion queue. Why has it become like this? Is it because the political parties who say they can accept tolls over many years have given their support to infrastructure projects in the districts with very low profitability? The promotion party has been opposed to such a priority because it has led to a lack of government funding for very profitable and correct road investments, including: in the central eastern region. Let me take an example: the expansion of the mainland link to Lake Mager Island in Finnmark, the so-called Fatima project, which is the world's longest underground road tunnel. In 1993, the bulk of the population prioritised entering this project, which has a final bill of well over 1 billion in 1999 to connect 3 500 inhabitants and a few businesses to the mainland. This represents an enormous cost of a total of NOK 300000 per person. the population. Also, many tourists have not wanted this mainland connection because they would rather have the natural experience and travel by boat. If we go to the voting protocol in Stortinget, we see that the Progress Party was the only party that went against the appropriations. In addition, the Right Kjellaug Nakkim broke out of his own group and voted against it in our opinion very unwisely. What about Østfold's other staging representatives, from the Workers' Party – e.g. Sign Eye – and Christian People’s Party, who voted for this very unprofitable project in the districts? Yes, they will compensate for the exodus in the districts by putting considerable burdens on the shoulders of Eastfold drivers. When it becomes a common or accepted way of implementing transport policy, the result is in the long term negative as a whole, and that is the situation of the majority, among others. from the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party, now has brought up Eastfold. Østfold has an estimated 6 pst. of the country's cars and pays 6 pst. of the country's car charges, but has seen over time the county which, together with Vestfold, has had the least return to road construction and maintenance of what has been paid. So what I'm finding out is that the political majority, including the Right, has fallen victim to powerful district interests rather than supporting sensible and profitable road investments in their own country. The common sense has had to give way to special interests and district policy. Representatives of this political majority are the same representatives who call for toll financing in Eastfold. That's what's the truth. The head of the Committee on Transport, Oddvard Nilsen, gave a piece of the pill to the Progress Party. But we are the ones who have credibility! We said no to the Fatima project for over $1 billion. The right said yes. We believe that the E6, as the most trafficked trajectory through Eastfold, is a national responsibility, so I note once again: the Progress Party has credibility. As far as the Progress Party is concerned, such a priority is now being made, a pampering of the car people in Eastfold, which is totally unacceptable and which must be combated by all available democratic means. If this is not done, the same political majority can continue to act as Christmas events in the districts, and then increase the burden placed on the shoulders of Eastfold citizens in the form of toll investments when new infrastructure projects are to be financed in the eastern part of the future. There are shared opinions about the ability and power of politicians in Norway, but in one area they show an incredible ingenuity and imagination, and that is when it comes to inventing new taxes and taxes or increasing those we already have. Our point is that the car owners of the country pay a lot more to own and drive a car in terms of petrol taxes, import taxes, annual taxes, diesel taxes, tolls, re-registration taxes and VAT on the car charges than what the drivers get back in terms of road construction and maintenance. It can best be described as highway robbery when the country thus milks the drivers who can pay several times for the same road bill. We risk that inventive politicians will further develop this road robbery, and charges can be so high that struppets are taken on the whole of car traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e536	With reference to the fairy taleteller from Odense, Inge Myrvoll thought that the Eastfold pack had no clothes on, not even underwear. This image, as far as I understand, was used to mean that what we are facing today is a clean package of roads, a clean package of motorways, and not a complete transport system through and for Eastfold. It's a truth with some modifications, which I'd like to come back to. But I would like to say that behind this lies a reasoning on the distribution of traffic, as gentle as possible for the environment and as operational as possible for the users. I agree. I therefore also agree with the need for reinforced railway development that this is important in the context of the Eastfold package. For example, it will. have no intention of expanding road capacity and not expanding rail capacity, so that we get a massive movement flow of people from track to road. The corks can then easily report. But in the maximum demand for the simultaneousity of things and at the same time ‘commitment’ one can risk getting into another of H. C. Andersen’s excellent adventures, namely ‘The steadfast tin soldier’. If one opposes any improvement in road standards pending something else and something better, one can risk increasing environmental impacts, increasing accidents, increasing the cost of people and businesses — yes, that what can be widely called environment will be harmful. Between this it's my opinion that one has to find an optimal solution. The optimal solution is completely present throughout the Eastfold package. In phase 1, I have noticed, for my part, that the majority of the Committee expresses their wish to ask the Ministry to add to the development of the double track from the Bay of Sand to the new Moss station in stage 1, subject to local contributions. This has recently been confirmed by the Council of State of this interlocutory and is his and the Ministry of Transport's opinion. Ergo is this, also in phase 1, a way of trying to resolve a multi-use capability between means of communication. It is, in my opinion, a very good start, and as a friend and user of the railway, I am pleased with it. But I would like to say that if we are to get the best use of the rail network through Østfold, the double track has to be connected in all directions, so that it becomes continuous from where we go out to the railway station in Oslo, and until we are through Østfold, and preferably also with connection to Sweden. But I realize that this must take time within any realistic economic framework. The point is that we must now get started, get started both in the Moss region and with the continuation. Now, partly by reference to Inge Myrvoll's environmental arguments, which I share a great deal, and partly to the previous speeches, which spoke of «land road robbery», I think we all realise that this type of user involvement in funding needs to be provided in order to advance some important transport projects. But also from a purely environmental point of view, I am not at all uncertain that the price regulator may not be at least as important for the environment as the accessibility regulator.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e551	Eastern Folding Phase 1 is a virtue for Eastfold, but also a solid virtue for the whole country, with the main theme of security and prosperity. The multiplicity decision on the extension of E6 and E18, including some cross-roads to E18, and the extension of the Moss 2B option by sub-financing is a very good and first phase to address significant development needs in Eastfold. The decision is based on professional good work done by the road manager in Eastfold in close and constructive cooperation with the county council in Eastfold and NHO, and not least a good work done now by the Minister for Transport. The chairman of the committee, Oddvard Nilsen, had in his speech a brief visit to the Christian People's Party as to the E18. This should be unnecessary in connection with this matter. The representative of Nilsen knows very well that at least the representative of the Christian People's Party from Eastfold and the absolute majority of the big group have been strongly involved in this expansion. I would also like to believe that it is possible to go back and see that it was just a renewal of this matter through the Christian People's Party that led to the expansion that has now taken place. In this case, then, it has now been possible to achieve a joint strong development in favour of a good traffic solution through Østfold, and we hope that a rational approach will be developed. Eastfold, with its two highways, is the gateway to Europe. The numbers' speech is ready. All of it carries 80 pst. of all goods travelling on the road, on these two roads, E6 and E18, a transport which is strongly increasing. Norwegian industry is growing. In particular, this sector of fisheries, which requires significant transport capacity to the large markets in Europe, has just entered Eastfold. Mostly, this heavy transport goes through our state. For a number of years, this significant transit traffic has been highlighted in order to gain an understanding of increased development, without significant progress being made until now in today's proposal for toll financing of the Easternfold package, Phase 1. This is a handshake for Eastfold's business and residents, although I'm aware that this is built into that 50 pst. the costs shall be financed through own-funding. Appropriations must now be provided for in national transport plans so that works can be carried out on a continuous basis. And in this case, it is important to note that we are invited to a comprehensive solution for road, rail, port and maritime transport in Eastfold. This must not be forgotten. For me, it is also particularly important to stress that a prerequisite for the majority to base this package is that there must also be a natural and straightforward solution to the double-track from Sandbukta to the new Moss station in Stage 1, which I am very pleased that the Council of State underlined in its contribution. As an east fold representative, I can safely say that a long-term process with great commitment at all levels in the county now finally seems to find a positive solution. We are pleased with phase 1, we are waiting for us to move on with phase 2 too and thus get a good and proper solution for the environment, for safety and for prosperity in our state.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e570	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e574	The representative of Nilsen was concerned that the Progress Party had taken the money from the fast route and put them on the way. In this year's budget, we haven't taken a penny from the fast route – we haven't. But what we've done is we've made a choice. We've re-prioritized our own budget, and we've said that we'll bet on the way instead of a few other things. We've openly and honestly gone out and said that we want less for tilt incrementing. We want it on the way instead. We have presented a Document No. 8 proposals to get private operators on the line. In Sweden today there are 40 different private operators on the line, and they already stand for 60 pst. of the transport of passengers in Sweden. Today, the NSB gets 980 million. kr without competitive outsourcing. We believe this in the Progress Party is wrong, and we want to spend 400-500 million. kr of this instead of subsidising the NSB uncritically in this way. So we want to do the exact same thing. We want to add several of the expeditions to gas stations or local stores. Then we might be able to maintain the local store in the community, instead of putting it down. In this way, the subsidies to the Item may be reduced. Today, Posten gets 760 million. kr, and there we will cut down sharply. We have found money to go, while the others uncritically over several periods have promised money to go, but it will be nothing. And now the representative is called the Nilsen Speed Panel. We haven't cut into the fast route this year, but we refused to extend the subsidisation after 2001. We wouldn't be in favour of the new grant period because we think it's subsidizing American tourists, and then it's better that we spend this money on the way. I find that the representative of Nilsen and Right agreed to subsidize the fast route after 2001, and that they would rather spend the money on American tourists than use it on the road. This is a priority that the parties have done. We've done it differently, and then the Right has its priority. Then the representative eye said that the Progress Party always granted less. It must have been a delay, because the Progress Party has never allowed less. But I guess she could've meant her own party instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e591	The representative Jorunn Ringstad was so far inside of me in his post, and used an expression like that Right-wing boast of the road allocation. No, I don't need to brag about the road. It's just reading through the budgets in recent years, you see what the Right has proposed. But that wasn't my point. My point was that no matter what the Progress Party says, it's a fact that in the 2000 budget, the Progress Party did not increase Framework Area 18, for transportation, with a single ear. Then there is a lack of logic when the Progress Party at the same time says that these 37 billion kroner paid by the drivers are to be returned in the form of road investments. This means increasing the road budget and increasing the transport budget. This has not been done by the Progress Party. So the Progress Party has not in this house prioritised transportation as such. It is true that one in the framework that was identical to the Government's framework, prioritised differently, but it does not give any more of the 37 billion kroner to the transport sector, which is the glossy number of the Progress Party. So one more thing: when it comes to toll projects, it was kind of said that we in the Right have shown socialist trends. I also think the Progress Party will take it inward, because if I don't remember completely wrong, and I don't, the Advance Party voted for the Toll Project at Jevnaker, Rv 35. They did. And there they actually wrote the following: ‘These members see it as a road safety and social gain that the road is completed as early as possible.’ It was exactly the same argument that the Right has been using for years to join toll projects, that by realizing them at an earlier date, society will take a total win. It's been our reason. In addition, we have had the reason that the country's involvement should be maintained. There should be no reduction in government appropriations and an increase in toll financing, because the gap between them is per year. definition for us a tax increase. When the government keeps its appropriations really high, the Right is willing to participate in toll projects. That was the warning I gave in my main post, that if the government continues its decline in appropriations, we get a huge problem related to financing the gap there with tolls. So a little bit to Holten: yeah, that's a proper clarification that's done. It is true that the Christian People's Party participated in the second round to correct it – we can say – wrong decisions that were made first. If I don't remember correctly, there were four representatives from the Christian People's Party who voted in favour, among others. current leader of the Christian People's Party, I believe, Hågstad Haugland. So that's exactly what Holten said there, that's a true history description. I see the time running fast, but there was one small point: the right has a suggestion in the case relating to giving a compensation back to Fv 311. If this is the case, as I understand the majority, that this is to be reviewed by the county council and that includes being willing to give this compensation to the Vestby, then the Right is willing to turn its proposal into a transmission proposal. It could be good to get some signals about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e609	The chairperson of the Committee shall receive that signal now. The working party won't deny that it can be a solution, that we're using the 5.5 million. kr on Fv 311, possibly in connection with a negotiated solution between the Ministry, toll company and the municipalities concerned. But the point is that we want such a round to be done looking at just this bombing position. At the same time, I also feel the need to see something more about the traffic rejection that could become a reality with the bypass options of Rv 121 and Rv 120. Otherwise, I would like to say to Kjellaug Nakkim, who was so busy with the revenue also in relation to this bombing position, that if you move this bomb a little further south on this county road, you will get into an annual traffic of 10,000, against what it is today, an annual traffic of 3,000. And if you were to take the consequence of getting even more revenue in relation to the financing of E6, it would have been logical enough that there had been a bomb on Swinesund, because as it is today, you can drive from Moss and south towards the border on a new road without paying a penny. There have been questions about the implementation of phase 2 and, as far as I am aware, phase 2 is now scheduled to be sent out to the hearing, and it is scheduled for treatment in the county council during the spring, so progress in relation to phase 2 is well under way. Like the chairperson of the Committee, there is a little uncertainty as to what the Progress Party is actually putting forward in the debate. Several have indicated that this is not a gift package for Østfold. Well, Eastfold has received the gift they asked for in many ways. What Eastfold has asked for is a faster deployment of E6 and E18, and it is precisely achieved by establishing this form of user payment. But what's a little amazing is that the Progress Party has not gone against any private financing of such a road section, that is, private capital can go in and bend out of that road. If private capital is to do that, it makes sense that those who go in then will have a return on that capital, and then either the users have to pay that return, or the Norwegian people, the common man, to whom the Progress Party is so concerned, have to pay over the tax bill. Logic must be searched.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e620	The Eastfold representative Holten would praise the Road Office for a professionally good job. The professional good work is that we will adopt a road package without a final cost estimate and financial arrangements. It looks like the Eastfold representative Holten is very good. The rapporteur, Mr Holten, who is working on the Gardermo project, will investigate. He wants a commission to review that project because there were poor calculations, there were bad traffic forecasts, etc. He is so dissatisfied with the way that the project is carried out, that here he wants a commission of inquiry, after long hearings, hearings where he himself was quite stabbed. But to adopt a project a few days later, without a cost estimate and a final financing plan, he likes to agree on in terms of his own state. It is that double morality is not twice as good as morality. I would suggest that in the future, the control committee look down a little and look at its own practice when it comes to controlling others. Then I want to commend the representative, Nakkim, for an article that was very realistic. She recognized that it was a road package, and she missed the railway. She was actually also concerned about the railway, but then it's about the costs, how to get to it all. Other representatives have gone and talked about the whole, the environment, the collective actions and the railway, and then I ask, where is the whole thing? When does the whole thing come? How is the whole payable? Where is the environment? When will the environmental effort come, and how will it be paid? The same can be said of collective action and the railway, because it is not within phase 1, and in the case of phase 2, it is neither fixed-term nor indicated in any way how it is to be financed. Phase 2 is a pure dream so far, phase 1 is the reality. In the submission to the National Transport Plan, the Railway Agency writes: ‘In particular, it is important to bring about a forced modernisation of the Westfold and Eastfold railways. Within the basic framework, the modernisation of these sections will stop. At the same time, a strong development of the road network through both Westfold and Eastfold has been proposed by the State Road Administration. Therefore, with the basic framework, the competitiveness of the railway will be greatly weakened in relation to the car. The result is even more car traffic.» That's the perspective forward, the way it's going to be. I must make a small comment to the representative Myrli. He thought that the railway operation should have come much earlier. I totally agree with him. It should perhaps have come when the representative Myrli was political adviser in the Ministry of Transport, it should perhaps have come in the 1990s, when the Workers' Party ruled and did not invest in the railways, and non-commitment on the railways has been carried on by the centre. So if the representative Myrli now believes that the Workers' Party has made a total mistake, I hope that we get some better signals in connection with the transport plan than we have today, because they have been disastrous.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e636	Thore Aksel Nistad has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e639	It surprises me that the Right also this time assigns us program posts that we don't have at all. The progress party is not consistent with toll projects, we have never said that and it is not in our programme either. It was referred to Rv 35. Rv 35 is a completely new way, and there are other ways to drive, which is free, so there actually have a choice. It is now that the Progress Party stands for giving people an option, and then it surprises me that it is so difficult for a representative from the Right to understand that the drivers have an option here. So the representative was Red Road within the OPS system, public and private cooperation on road construction. Yes, but there are many ways to repay the money. One can do that by putting up a bomb and demanding money, that's what you think about, and one can do it by shadow financing. One can also do so by making annual repayments of government budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e646	The Christian People's Party is in favour of starting toll funding for the partial financing of the Easternfold package, which I have justified in my previous post. I also clarified the essential fact that both road and rail are taken in stage 1, which was also confirmed by the Council of State in its contribution. Therefore, I would like to ask the representative Kjellaug Nakkim if I heard correctly when she agreed with SV's Inge Myrvoll that we are adopting a road package today. At the same time, the representative Nakkim – some sentences later – said that road and rail must go hand in hand. It could have been nice to get a clarification on this. The Christian People's Party agrees to the development of E6 and E18. As a regular user of both the E6 and the railway through Eastfold and E6 south of the border, I will nevertheless distance myself from the misery description provided by the representative Nakkim, in relation to today's situation and future developments. Part of the distance is bad, but it's also part of the distance that's pretty good, also in relation to the distance that's between the boundary and the Uddevalla. It's the distance E6 between Moss and the county border of Akershus, which is the most precarious, I think we agree on. But I expect that the Right is also involved in collective action linked to the railway, so that a completely necessary transition of transport from road to track can take place. We cannot build our roads out of our transport needs, so it is important to simultaneously invest in both rail and road. Then I also want to signal that the Christian People's Party supports what the Right Party and the Workers' Party have said about looking at the use of the 5.5 million. kr, included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e655	Let me stress that in the government's assessment and in the proposal to the Stortingen, the environment, road safety and collective solutions have been very central. That today I did not make it particularly clear in my post, because I have affected this many times before. My starting point is, as Stortinget knows, that one killed in traffic is one too much. It is also a fundamental basis for proposing priorities and the pace of development in the future. Now, earlier today, we talked a little bit about the value of the expansion. I refer to page 5 of the proposition, where it says the following: ‘For Ev 6 the net benefit in relation to costs is calculated at –0,07 for Ev 18 –0,03. There is therefore a lack of socio-economic profitability in development.’ I mention this because in the debate there have been comparisons with other transport projects in this country. The balance sheet I am now referring to is difficult because it is not always possible to focus on the dietary principle. Then I would like to stress that it is in the individual years, as the Storting is clearly aware, that the money for the projects is allocated. Several sections of E18 and E6 must reach an uncertainty of plus/minus 10 pst. It must also be the railway project. The review of the railway project is as it is in the proposal because the cost assessment has to go down to a better level of accuracy. I will, on behalf of the Government, send a national transport plan to the Stortinget in the course of a month and a half. The size will then, for the first time, allow – within the same permafrost – a balance to be made on land transport, i.e. by road, sea, air and rail. It's going to be a challenging distribution. In recent years, the Government has made a shift from road to rail within tight budgets in terms of percentage distribution. But let me remind you that today it is not the proposals of the institutions for a framework to be discussed, nor their priority. The government will come with its frames. It will come up with its proposal for priorities, and then my earlier statement in the debate on the inclusion of the railways through Moss will be part of the priorities that the Government needs to put on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e671	I'm a very realistic person and I'm not making any headway. There is also something of the background for what I said in my post. We've come a little way with the Eastfold package, because what we're going to adopt today is that tolls on E6 and E18 can be collected. What remains to be seen is what is happening in the national transport plan and the progress made in the state appropriations, both in terms of E6 and E18, and in terms of the development of the railway. I'm not calm until I see what comes there, and what will be granted. There are some assumptions that have been included in the setting that I hope the Council of State will follow up. I expect him to follow it up, but I want to see it printed in the National Transport Plan when it comes to Stortinget, and see that this is going on, before I can be completely satisfied. That is why I agree with Myrvoll and would like to say that today is the actual road package we have for treatment. We want railway development, but it comes first in the national transport plan, even if there are a good deal of leads. I'm very pleased that the Council of State said it would come in phase one. This means that it must be included in the national transport plan for the period 2002-2011. The other thing that I also think is important concerns toll financing and toll placement. I'm not going to mix up so much in the bombing position, but I'm very concerned with the wording of the Workers' Party, that you should look at the move of it, but you shouldn't touch the funding base. The funding base is very important in this case, we all know that. But when the Workers' Party says that, they also say that there is such a good funding here that you can go into the harbour roads. Then I wonder, what is the principle of placing a bomb? We have a bomb on Fv 311, and it would be totally wrong to have it there if it were to be there to finance the port roads, which these road users are not going to run on at all – nor those who run on the E6 or E18. So here's a mistake in the logic of the Workers' Party regarding that funding. Otherwise, I think responsibility is pushed back to the administration when you deal with this with the bombing position on Fv 311. But I have to say that if you now give signals that the remuneration in this connection should be able to go to the expansion of Fv 311, it will benefit everyone, including those who drive there, because that road is today quite miserable and narrow. I understand the road manager's argument that road safety will be better protected by having a bomb there than by having a large traffic leak with a bypass for those who do not want to use the bombs on the E6.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e682	No more people have asked for the floor in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e688	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e695	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Thore Aksel Nistad, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, by Oddvard Nilsen on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 3,from Inge Myrvoll on behalf of the Socialist Left Party
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e708	In the debate, both the Centre and the Workers' Party have expressed their desire to consider the proposal from the Right on the compensation and whether it could possibly go to the municipality of Vestby. The last is the primary desire to the Right. We will therefore turn this proposal into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e713	Proposal No. 2, from the Right, at the request of the proposer, is changed to a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government ensure that if the district of Østfold maintains its decision on the placing of a bomb, the proposed county compensation of 5,5 million is assumed. kroner used to repair FV 311.’» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1 Proposals submitted are rejected. 2nd@item: inlistbox It is recalled that the district of Østfold assesses a new Eastfold package containing the following main elements: Road development and rail are implemented in a phase E6 and E18 development and cross-roads are financed in full through user payment by means of toll revenues received by Member States with at least equivalent funds for railway investments to develop a modern, double-track Eastfold railway, where priority is also given to rail connections to ports.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e746	It is then put to the vote on Amendment No 1, tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to build E6 and E18 as the 4-field motorway through Eastfold for state resources. The work shall be carried out immediately and without toll financing.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e771	The Progressive Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-24.ana.ud549e786	There is no record.
