ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e60	The representative Hilde Frafjord Johnson, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. Applications for leave are submitted by the representative Siri Frost Sterri on 27 and 28 November to attend the meeting of the EEA Parliamentary Committee in Brussels. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: Let's see. The application shall be examined immediately and accepted.The representative of the goods, Michael Momyr, shall be called to meet during the period of leave.Michael Momyr shall be elected to the Lamentations at the time of his meeting with the representative Siri Frost Sterri.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e95	The President requests a new member and an alternate to the Election Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e98	I propose Astrid Marie Nistad as a new member, and Reidun Gravdahl as a new alternate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e103	Astrid Marie Nistad has been proposed as a new member of the election committee after Anneliese Dørum, and Reidun Gravdahl has been proposed as a new alternate member of the electoral committee. – Other proposals are not available, and the President assumes that they can be voted in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e120	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 625]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e134	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 626]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e148	The majority today has to deal with Document No. 3:11 for 1999-2000 on the National Audit Office’s study of achievement and project management in the project EDB Local Administration in the Army and the Heimevernet. The IT project was launched in 1988 to streamline the management of the local departments of the Army and the Home Office. The National Audit Office’s study of the project shows that the objectives set by one for the development and implementation of the new IT solutions have not provided the expected results and benefits that were achieved. The study has assessed how the management and control of the project has been carried out, and that has not been good enough. In fact, the National Audit Board concludes that the project was a costly high-ambitious IT solution that provided little of the results and benefits envisaged. The study also shows that the project was charged with 550 million. kr. This was an increase of 375 million. kr in relation to the original estimate of 175 million. kr for the project. Six modules were to be developed with a total of 23 subsystems. In 1999, only three modules with six subsystems were developed and put into service. Neither in the Army nor in the Home Office, systems were established to measure and realise the gains that were foreseen. The project lacked a planned approach to making gains as modules and subsystems were developed and implemented. The study also shows that there have been weaknesses in the management and follow-up systems of the project. This applies both to system development and to the implementation of the final solutions. There are several points where the FO and Hærstaben have revealed a lack of control and control, which had operational responsibility for the implementation of the project. But it has to be said that when this project was introduced, it was after pressure from the Ministry of Finance, and it was also said by the defense that this project was very ambitious. There were also reductions in the requirements of the Defence. But everyone was aware that it was a risky project, which one has also seen in the comments and in the further follow-up that was made by the Defence Committee when dealing with these issues. The National Audit Office’s study also shows that the Home Protection Agency was able to define itself in practice from important parts of the project. Local management was largely given the opportunity to decide for itself which modules and subsystems to use, without any obligation from an overall project coordination plan. A unanimous committee has joined the good work done by the National Audit Office in this matter, and we hope and expect that the follow-up of such projects as this in other departments and in other systems will provide the basis for one to be more flexible at all stages of the introduction of new projects before one starts them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e169	In 1998, the Army launched the IT project EDB local management to streamline the management of local departments. The system was to be fully developed in 1995, and investment costs were estimated at 175 million. kr. The main objectives of the project were: provide local management with a tool for more efficient management and governance to simplify productivity and streamline information processing within departments to facilitate a more efficient exchange of information between the levels of the Army and the Home Office; The project was to improve the efficiency of 400-500 yearly works and the annual profit was estimated at 373.5 million. kr. The National Audit Office’s studies show that the project has provided little of the results and gains that were foreseen. This is not satisfactory, especially given that the project was far more expensive than expected. The National Audit Office's investigations revealed that the project was charged with 550 million. NOK, which is an increase of 375 million. kr in relation to the original estimate of 175 million. kr. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is not exactly familiar with state projects that are becoming more expensive than budgeted, and hence, in retrospect, it is important to point to reasons why the project did not achieve its objectives, so that we can learn from this in retrospect. The National Audit Office's investigation shows that neither the Army nor the Home Protection Agency had established systems to measure and realise gains. There is therefore no evidence as to whether the Army or the Home Office had achieved the objectives of reduced operating and investment costs. However, the National Audit Office is difficult to see that the project has helped to ensure a more effective exchange of information between the different levels and units of the Army and the Home Office. The national audit has also revealed weaknesses in project management. Progress plans were the first years of general and little direction for implementation, and the Riksrevision believes that the organisation of the project has been characterised by a number of unresolved relationships between the project manager, project group and the management group. The understanding of the individual’s duties and responsibilities has been deficient. This project and other projects which have become more expensive and/or have not achieved their objectives show that it is necessary to continuously evaluate and develop better control procedures and project management in government projects. The Committee shares the Riksrevision’s conclusion that EDB’s local administration in the Army and the Home Office was a costly IT effort with high ambitions that has provided little of the results and benefits envisaged.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e203	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 626]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e217	The examination of Document No 3:10 is important in terms of how we use our resources, and also how the National Audit Office can examine and assess how the individual departments achieve the objectives they have in relation to decisions taken in the Storting, and the assumptions set out in this Chamber. That is why the study we are dealing with today shows that there is a great potential for efficiency in the police and relief services. The National Audit Office points out that the calculations of the efficiency of the police in terms of the financial resources they have show that there is a lot to get here by coordinating better, so that you get more of the resources you have today. In fact, the survey shows that there are varying and partially weak targets in several areas, both in the police and in the county council, in terms of central and local performance targets. The increased use of resources by the police and officers’ seats has not sufficiently contributed to the results in terms of the percentage of clearance and the duration of proceedings that one has set itself as a target. In the efficiency calculations carried out by the National Audit Office during the period, it is estimated that it is possible to increase the number of crimes and offences resolved by about 30 pst. with the resources available to the police and officers' seats today. Although these estimates do not show the overall level of efficiency, at least there appears to be significant improvement possibilities, as highlighted by the Committee and in agreement with the Riksrevision. When one looks at the increase in the budget of the justice sector, and when one looks at the changes in productivity over the period 1996-98, one sees that the economic resources invested in the police and relief services have not been followed up accordingly by the department. It also appears that the average time taken to deal with criminal offences is still too long: around 200 days for unsolved crimes, and 30 out of 54 police districts have increased the length of proceedings from 1997 to 1998. Several of the matters that the Riksrevision has investigated have remained for periods without any special investigation. And in one of the four cases within the police and lumbar residence, it went more than 30 days before the interrogation phase started. The National Audit Office’s investigation also shows that the lack of prosecution capacity has consequences for the entire criminal proceedings and provides for a longer period of proceedings. In the cases examined by the Riksrevision, half of the trial period goes to the prosecution phase. The leftovers have increased by over 12 pst. nationally, according to the Riksrevisionen survey. A unanimous Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs does not appear to be good. As regards the percentage of information, we know that it varies from one area to another. But when the country-wide clearance rate has only increased from 32 to 36 in the period 1996-98, it is not good enough when we look at the resources we have spent on the sector. The study also shows that there is a wide variation both in the level and development of districts and between the different types of crime. I can mention that the percentage of the detection of violent and winning crimes has fallen in the period. And it's become a growing industry in our society as we go, as evidenced that we don't take enough action, resources and resources to do anything about it. It is a warning when the Riksrevision can prove that over 70 pst. of the cases which the Riksrevision has examined during this period concerning the notification of gross theft of the house and the villa, were not clarified. That is why it is also important what the Progress Party and the Right are saying in their particular comment. We agree with the position that exists, but we believe, on the basis of what I have said, that it is important that the police and officers' seat is not always assigned to new tasks without having enough financial resources and staff to deal with them. One sees that even the Riksadvokat has recently been strongly opposed to the change in the per mille limit, which means that the police are getting more attention, as well as the square meter limit in the opening time law. Then it is clear that the tasks that the police have to take care of in society today are huge. We want – at least from the Progress Party and the Right – to focus on what is most important, namely that we get to do something about the developments we see that various criminal acts and types are increasingly an attack on our country. These get the means to enable them to continue what they've been doing, which has proved to be very effective in the Norwegian state of law today, because crime doesn't punish itself to the extent that we want it to. We hope that the comments made by a unanimous committee in the examination of this important document will make this subject subject of a new review, and that the Police and National Assembly and the Ministry and the Minister will follow up this work, which is so important, as the Riksrevision has also pointed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e245	All of us want an effective police and county council, not just because, through preventive, law-enforcement and aiding activities, the establishment should help to secure us as citizens of the country our legal security, security and general well-being for the rest. For this reason, the police and county council must have the preconditions for achieving the objectives set for combating crime, in particular in relation to the percentage of information and the duration of proceedings. As the rapporteur, Vidar Kleppe, has stated in a clear way, the Riksrevision's survey on the achievement of the objectives of the police and officers' seat is a very useful and also a constructive document – useful in the sense that the study reveals major weaknesses, constructive is the study because it reveals that there are great opportunities for efficiency in the establishment. The fact that it is possible to improve both the percentage of clearance and the duration of proceedings in general is quite significant is reassuring. I would therefore like to point out to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs that the Committee is very satisfied with the manner in which the Ministry of Justice has followed up the report of the National Audit Office. A significant effort has already been made to streamline the criminal procedure. At the same time, it is important, as a unanimous committee expresses, without me going into detail, to avoid imposing new tasks on the police and officers' seats in addition to those imposed by law. This means, in clear terms, that the resources of the police and relief services need to be increasingly focused on the primary task that the agency has been set up to solve, namely the fight against crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e258	What this matter is about is the achievement of the police and officers' rights, a work regulated by the Police Act of 4 August 1995, which has already been thoroughly reviewed by the rapporteur. Of the documents available in the case, it appears that the establishment today has approx. $5 billion at your disposal, and a total of 10,000 employees. This is a reasonably good resource for this purpose, even though one at any time has a situation in which one might expect to get better use, and also, not least, possibly more crews at disposal in given situations. The study by the National Audit Office takes into account — in its limitation — the objectives set for crime prevention, in particular with regard to the degree of clarification and the duration of proceedings. An overall committee points to the need for a high priority in terms of efficiency, which is of course important, and the possibilities of improving resource use seem to be absolutely present. The procedure period, about 200 days now, should be reduced. We all know that speed in processing, especially in this area, is desirable. We also look at the position that the Right and Advance Party have a brief comment where the search light is directed towards dividing police work into different groups based on the severity of the crime. It must be a difficult task to make such a limitation in my opinion. What are important issues for the police? The examples mentioned, namely per mille control on the road and at sea, can be deprioritized, according to the Progress Party and the Right. However, these are also factors that can have a significant impact on those involved, not least in terms of both damage and possibly death. That is why at least the Christian People's Party believes that the police are constantly being imposed, must be carried out in full and on an equal footing. The work of the police must be directed towards all matters that are contrary to Norwegian law. But of course, there must also be a certain opportunity to take the heaviest things first. However, I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to express the good work done by the police and the army. There is no doubt that, in general, they have good confidence in the population, even though the establishment, according to this work that the Riksrevision has now carried out, must seek to increase its efficiency and improve its efficiency in relation to clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e269	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e272	I cannot leave it undisputed when the representative Holten gives the impression that the Progress Party and the Right do not take it seriously with promille. I would at least like to say from the Group of the Party of European Socialists that we want per million checks, of course. But what I pointed out in my post was that the national lawyer has gone out and questioned the priorities that the police and the county council have to have. When the representative Holten says that delimitation in relation to the ‘seriousness of the crime’ is difficult, I agree with the representative Holten. But the representative Holten, in the light of the financial framework he has given to the judiciary, has helped to build up under the difficulties that the agency has experienced with regard to priorities. It is clear that if we do not follow up and contribute more money to the policing and canonist movement – and still impose new things on them that they should deal with – it is not surprising that the Progress Party, the Right and the National Attorney put question marks on ever-new things that need to be given priority, and that is the issue. So I just want to clear up that misunderstanding. The party of progress, which is the party that is really committed to doing something in the justice sector, is not going to be stuck with the beard in the mailbox by almost creating the impression that we don't want to give enough money, and that we want to liquidate the pro-mille controls. So that's not right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e279	I do not experience what I had to say, as a misunderstanding in relation to the opinion of the Advance Party in their comments on this matter. The note specifically mentions these issues that I touched on, and that these are aspects that should be factored down, based on – as I also said – a tight manning situation. However, on the basis of the studies carried out by the National Audit Office, I believe that there is still a basis for better use of resources, and that the efficiency potential within the budget needs to be exploited in a better way, thus providing room for the type of activity mentioned in the comments of the Progress Party and the Right. I'm going to be the first to complain that the national attorney goes out in such a way and gives a signal to do a grading of different types of activities. This I think is a very unfortunate way. The police, of course, must respect the legislation we have in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e284	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e287	When I asked for the word, it was precisely with the background in the post of the representative Kleppe. I would like to underline in the introduction that it is important that we give both credit and support to the police for the business they are doing. There is an incredible amount of good work done, including in other areas of justice. But I honestly think that the Riksadvokat’s priorities – which the Advance Party and the Right use as a type of alibi for their own comment – are inappropriate. Is it a decision by a majority in the United Kingdom that is more burdensome for the police? It's a strange claim. Additional load relative to what? Who decides what's important? Is it not the legislative authority that says what is important when making decisions? I'm tempted – perhaps almost too much, so that I give in to the temptation, and it's like the President himself is familiar with, not very tricked, at least not in every respect – to ask: shouldn't it happen that it's the tipping-off policy, the alcohol policy and the Russian policy that the Right and the Progress Party stand for, which is the cause of the extra strain on the police? Yes, I am sorry that the temptation was too great, but as the representative Kleppe put it in his post, it might not have been otherwise to wait. And I don't regret falling for the temptation either.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e294	The President understands that temptations can be combated or not combated. It is a political matter in many cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e297	The National Audit Office's report is useful because it points to and documents the lack of effectiveness of the police and officers' seat, thereby improving the potential for improvement. In particular, this applies to criminal proceedings, for which the Riksrevision has concentrated. The results of the National Audit Office are confirmed by a working group chaired by the Deputy Advocate General for Years, in a note on the criminal proceedings given in June of this year, which reviews and confirms what the Riksrevision also says, that criminal proceedings take an unnecessary amount of time, and that there is too much so-called lay time in the cases. This working group, as well as another working group that has looked at other parts of the criminal justice chain, has proposed a number of measures that the Ministry of Justice is following up on. We are also working on improvements in the rest of the police's activities. I am thinking in particular of the police district structure, which will be presented to the Stortinget in a relatively short period of time, and which I am convinced is also related to the effectiveness of the police and county council. Further development on the IT side is also important in order to contribute to better efficiency by allowing the various actors in the criminal justice chain to interact more closely through IT development also on the IT side. Today, very much of what is typed into one computer at one of the stages of the criminal proceedings has to be re-entered in the next. And that should soon be unnecessary in our time. The last thing I wanted to comment on was the comment from the minority on the police need to focus on the most important things. I fully agree with the general starting point – in the same way as the representative, Mr Schaug – that it is important to think through which offences should be dealt with by punishment, and what offences should be dealt with instead of by other penalties. That is why we are about to put down a sample that is just going to investigate alternative sanctions for punishment. Examples of alternative penalties include the conversion of administrative decisions, different forms of fees, suspension orders, withdrawal of profits and periodic penalty payments for the implementation of legal status. This is to the extent that sanctions are partially applied today, but that there may be reason to think through in a more principleal and wider context to see if it makes sense the way in which we distribute the sanctions, between punishment and thus police liability, and other types of sanctions. But even though I agree with the general principle that we have to think about each time we add a new task to the police, I do not agree with the specific examples the minority refers to. There won't be any more per mill checks that you have a different per mill limit. The police have a task related to opening hours even if you disagree with the way it is regulated. It is only at the moment that all forms of regulation – possibly individual parties – are being regulated – that the part of the pressure imposed on the police as a result of the Storting's desire to regulate opening hours in society is of great importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e309	I am really glad that this debate gives us the opportunity to see a topic in relation to two committees. The Committee on Justice has shown increased attention to the effect of monitoring the results of what we actually achieve over the Justice budget. In this respect, this attitude is important and it is important that justice policy also engages. I would like to say briefly the following: Of course, the police should give priority to the most important thing first. There has been no disagreement on this in the Justice Committee, and what are the most important criminal policy tasks, both in the judiciary and in the Justice budget. It's about killing, gross violence, sexual assault, pedophilia, relapses/profit crime, assaults on life, health and private property and, of course, international crime. In addition, we mention childhood and juvenile delinquency, which is emerging. These have been the same areas as the Justice Committee has been bringing forward throughout this period. It is clear that the police and officers sector should do these tasks first. That's how I see Gunnar Schaug. Without the need to specify what should not be given priority first, it goes without saying that some other tasks will then be given a lower priority. Then I'd like to take the opportunity to defend the State Attorney, since he has no access to the Parliament's pulpit. The Advocate General gave his opinion on, for example: The law of the mill because he was asked to speak, first from the Ministry of Justice, when they sent the case to the hearing, later from the Judicial Committee, when we had our hearing. It wasn't just the state attorney who was crystal clear negative in his recommendation in the 0.2 case. The Joint Police Association, the Association of Lawyers and ordinary workers through the LO provided clear advice not to adopt the 0.2 Act. A brief word can be said that from the justice sector there were a lot of warnings against this law, precisely on the basis of the general theme we are discussing here today, that the police have to do the most important thing first. There is no secret that there were interests in the transport sector more than in the justice sector, including in government, which seemed to be a very important matter to run through the Stortinget. The 0.2 issue also has a page on a completely parallel theme, namely the control of drivers affected by drugs. The reason the police were skeptical was that they were in doubt that this would undermine the police’s ability to have effective control of drug drivers. I will not dwell on the 0.2 matter, because it has been dismissed, but I would like to repeat that the hearing opinions that were given, among other things. by the national lawyer, has come after a clear call from both the government and the magnificence. So finally, it's good that the Riksrevision gives us an opportunity to exercise greater control over what the police and the cannons do. It is good that the Minister of Justice says that they have a sample to review these things, and that there will be some laws that will be changed as a result of it. I have also realized that the Minister for Children and Family thinks about winding up the Brustad Bua. Then we're also a step in the right direction, and it's positive that the government can turn on some of these points. Of course, it's also good that the police follow the priority of doing the most important thing first, and then we get politicians to take inward that means that some of the things we decide here in the house, get pretty low on the priority list.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e324	I'm glad I represent a party that's the best friend of the police and the cannons, and that's not on the criminal side. So I haven't said that anyone else in this room is, but there's at least no willingness to grant financial resources to get students to work at the Police College, while crime is a growth industry, and while individual police districts are screaming for more people who can take on the important job it is to fight crime. The reason I took the floor again was the contribution from the representative Marthinen of the Christian People's Party. He fell for the temptation – I didn’t think they fell so easily for the temptation in the party that he appears but that’s okay enough. We also know that the ban fruit tastes best for some. When he says that the gift and alcohol policy of the Advancement Party is the reason for the conditions we see, and that it was a forbidden task not to try to take the responsibility inwards in the comitology that we have with the Right, of course, it is not at all correct. In any case, the policy of the Party of Advance Countries on alcohol and spirits provides the nationally elected means of carrying out controls, either in the municipalities or in restaurants which have a puncture set of legal devices. You don't have it where you don't give illegal gifts, and that's perhaps one of the reasons why the Christian People's Party has actually become the best friend of smugglers. Before the last elections, we even saw some people asking for a good choice, so that you could still have high prices of alcoholic beverages so that profits could be maintained. I note that the budgetary agreement they have entered into with the 'Royal Norwegian' has led to a reduction in the charges on these goods, among other things. on spirits, with 17 pst. It has not been implemented, and I can see that those involved in smuggling and organised crime in this area can face bright times even though we are now in the dark. Otherwise, I would also like to say quite at the bottom of the discussion and the debate that it is good that the Minister of Justice should look at alternative ways, like she was inside, and that there is a sample set up to review what the police are doing. We certainly do not agree with all the conclusions, but we think it is important that this work be carried out and that we get this presented to the Stortinget. But when you look at some of the priorities that have been made within the police and the police, we see that the Ministry of Justice and the majority in this Chamber made an important point that asylum interrogations were to be taken out of the hands of the police and transferred to the UDI. There the police were released from a task. But they are not released when they have to handle the broadcasts of these asylum seekers. If you go in and look at the tighter frameworks you have in the justice sector, it is clear that there are some things that are more important than others. That was both the representative of Gunnar Schaug, the committee leader, and the Minister of Justice inside. But the will of this house to do what the representatives of Marthinsen and Holten of the Christian People's Party are concerned about, namely, that we should cover all these important areas, such as per milleon checks on the roads and at sea, must be followed up in practice. It's not just useful with great party speeches and good formulation. Here one has to follow up with heads and ears and crews that allow them to do everything that we in this room require them to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e335	The President would point out that if Kleppe's representative intends to refer to a political party, it shall be with the proper name of the party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e338	Yes, President. I am sorry that I said ‘the Royal Norwegian’. Of course, I meant the Norwegian Workers' Party. But sometimes they talk about themselves roughly as royal. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e343	The President finds reason to repeat his appeal, sir. Klöppe. Several have not asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e357	As a rule, the annual report of the Data Protection Authority has three main parts when it is presented to the Stortinget. These are the observations of the Ministry of Justice on the Annual Report for 1999, the report of the Management Board for the same year and the opinion of the Director of the Data Protection Supervisor on the activities for the same year. With regard to the comments on the Annual Report of the Data Protection Supervisor, the Committee agrees on a cross-political basis. We notice that privacy is an area of development and under constant pressure. This means that this may affect the workload of the Data Protection Authority. We agree that it is important for the Ministry to make an ongoing assessment of the resource needs of the Data Protection Authority. With regard to the Management Board of the Data Protection Authority, the Committee is also very pleased that both the Decision Protocol and the minutes of the Management Board are published. That is in line with what we are going to talk about later in Odelstinget regarding the Public Health Act. We have also noticed that the length of data protection has been reduced as a result of a rapid response project. We think that's important. We also believe that the Data Protection Authority has carried out a reasonable prioritisation of the different parts of the procedure. Two other tasks to which the Committee considers it essential for the Data Protection Authority to be active in relation to apply for the first consultation opinion. These contribute to the provision of sufficient information to social planners and decision-makers on privacy and data protection. The second is that verification visits are carried out for those who process personal data. It helps to create a good dialogue, it draws attention to this issue, and it provides information that increases the level of awareness about the treatment of personal information. Finally, we have noticed that from 1 January next year, the administrative responsibility for the Data Protection will be transferred to the Ministry of Labour and Administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e374	Several have not asked for the word. [[See page 626]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e388	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e391	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e398	Sir. Bar! The President regrets that he had not looked sufficiently fixed on his right side.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e401	It pays off to have looked well on the right. I would like to make a few brief comments on the proposal put forward by the Right, that the Stortinget asks the Government to propose a common age limit for state and private gambling. The first time we had the Lottery Act for treatment, a year ago, I was very concerned as case rapporteur that we should have equal conditions for state and private games. In principle, the Advance Party is opposed to introducing the age limit for gambling, on the basis of what I said, that the same conditions should apply to private games as to state games. The problem of gambling addiction has been discussed. But after the Progress Party's view, gambling addiction is regardless of whether it's private lotteries or state games. We would therefore like to point out that there is no legal framework today that prevents children from investing their pocket money in state gambling on money, i.e. discrimination. This discrimination has also been confirmed by Odelstinget, where there is a majority in favour of an age limit for private games, but not for state games. It is very important to point out that scientific knowledge needs to be developed with credibility about the issue of gambling addiction before it can be seen that there is an increase in gambling dependence. In that case, the question must relate not only to private games but also to State games. The debate on gambling addiction has been based in many ways only on assumptions and claims that have not been quality assured through independent research. The Progress Party will have the same system as it is in Denmark, where there is initially no age limit, but the possibility of introducing the age limit into the gambling market is left to us – that is, to those who are lottery players. Some of those who have tried such a line include: Red Cross, which today has an age limit on games that they themselves have introduced, but which it has now been required by law to have in any case. Now it's case no. 5 discussed precisely the achievement of the objectives of the police and the police in relation to resource use, and then we have another example of imposing unreasonable tasks on the police, as the police in connection with the Lottery Act are responsible for controlling the enforcement of the Lottery Act, primarily with a view to complying with the age limit. It is a demand for resource use in the police that the Progress Party seems to be completely unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e418	When the Christian People's Party is going to vote against this proposal today, it's not because of the material content. We might think that we can come to the point of view that we want a common age limit, but we have a comment in the Inner East. O nr. 12 given that we want a feedback where these things are to be seen in a whole. That is why, and I am now saying it instead of taking the floor for explanations of vote later, during the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e423	We did not intend to say anything from the Labour Party in this matter, but the fact that the representative Stang takes the floor makes it necessary to clarify from our side as well. We have, from the Labour Party's side, both the last time and the last time we dealt with this matter, placed great emphasis on the need to assess the common age limit. But we'll do that on a much more thorough basis than we're able to do today, so we'll get back to that. What is also important, however, is that for private games it is not necessarily your age limit. We want to evaluate the entire gambling market, the different types of government games and the different types of private games. We'll come back to this when we get it evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e430	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 626]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e438	The size goes to voting. Case No. 1 is already past it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-24.ana.ud1747e566	There is no record.
