ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e56	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: André Kukkestad and Tron Erik Hovind For the County of Buskerud: Gerd Johnsen For the Nordic region: Bears Olsen For the county of Rogaland: Jostein Rovik For the South-Trundellag County: Tove Kari Viken The representative of Jon Lilletun is informed that he is withdrawing the granted permit application for the period from 31 October to 3 November. – This message is taken into account. The following permit applications are available: from the representative of Ivar Østberg on leave from 31 October to 3 November in order to take part in a journey with the appointed Grand Delegation to Malawi from the representatives of Kjell Engretsen and Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen on leave from 1 November to 3 November in order to take part in the election as observers under the auspices of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly at the Parliamentary elections in Azerbaijan; On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Akershus County: Anita OrlundFor Telemark County: Marthe Scharning LundFor Troms County: Ruth Stenersen
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e129	Ruth Stenersen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e134	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Storting meeting today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e139	I suggest Aud Blattmann and Kjell Engebretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e144	Aud Blattmann and Kjell Engebretsen are proposed as presidents. – Other proposals are not available, and Aud Blattmann and Kjell Engebretsen are unanimously elected as chairpersons of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e152	The representative, Jan Petersen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e156	On behalf of Carl I. Hagen and myself I will make suggestions to ask the Government to withdraw Ot.prp. No 2 for 2000-2001 and promote the necessary amendments to the 2001 State Budget as a result of the postponement of the proposed VAT reform. If I can add, this is a matter which is, in that case, a premise for the further budgetary procedure, and I therefore dare to suggest that this proposal is dealt with under point (c) of the third paragraph of Section 28 of the Regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e163	The President has registered the request for procedure, and the proposal for procedure will be addressed at the end of the meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e175	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the President and the members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e182	It is interesting to note that while the 1999 NATO notification does not have to address to a small extent the issue of the crisis in the Balkans, and not least the military operation in the context of the Kosovo crisis in 1999, the new leader of democratic Serbia, Kostunica, is landing in Norway for political talks. It tells how much has happened in a short time, and how eventful the situation in the Balkans is. The very operation in Kosovo has been debated a number of times. A number of countries have provided systematic evaluations of the operation carried out and, to a large extent, for good reasons. There are many things that could be debated further, for example. the appropriateness of never getting far in preparing ground operations. But the important thing is that this matter is discussed – discussed on an ongoing basis. In the past, the size has taken a position on some of the most important issues that need to be discussed, such as: the legal basis for the operation in place, and there is no doubt that the Storting against consensus has considered that the legal basis for the operation was in place. The development we have seen in the Balkans after the operation is a joyous development, which, with all the possibilities for setbacks, nevertheless offers considerable hope. We have had a change of regime in Croatia, with democracy and orientation towards Western Europe. Although developments in Bosnia are still slowly moving in the right direction, it is, after all, going in the right direction, and in the Bosnian conflict, NATO had a vital role to play. We saw this weekend's municipal elections in Kosovo, which we probably also have to register are part of the development in the right direction, simply because a municipal election was carried out in a tidy and proper way. So we see the developments that are going to affect a lot of Norway right now, the takeover of democracy in Serbia. Of course, it is primarily the Serbian people who have been responsible for the change that has come, but I want to congratulate the Norwegian government on the contribution it has had to this development. I think it's an expression of a proper foreign policy, where an activist line has helped to contribute to a proper development. The question, however, is what will happen in the future, and what will we do. First of all, I want to say that I think it is very important that Norway has a long-term perspective for its activities in Kosovo. We should discuss in budgetary terms how much and what to do, but I think it is very important that we see that this is a long-term commitment. There have been press releases recently that could indicate that the interest in Kosovo was falling and that the interest in Serbia has taken up. I am pleased that the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has cleared up these misunderstandings today, and I therefore see that there is a broad consensus that we must have a significant commitment to Kosovo in the years to come. This does not mean that it is now not important to use some resources in Serbia too to try to support the rather fragile democratic development of that country. It is important as far as possible to open up Serbia to closer cooperation in Europe; it is a kind of return to Europe. But at the same time, it is important that the population see that a change of regime can also mean the difference in daily life, and it is therefore important for us to be involved and contribute to the reconstruction. But this must be emphasised: of course, some of the fundamentals are that this leads to a continued policy of reconciliation in Kosovo. It is the pressure that must always be on the new Serbian regime, it is not enough to democratize Serbia, it must lead to reconciliation in Kosovo. It's a difficult and long-term problem. This is precisely why the goal has to be made perfectly clear, and I feel absolutely confident that the Norwegian government will make it clear to Serbia's new management. Norway can't be as engaged everywhere in the world, but I want to say that if there's any place where you're really going to put weight, it's right in this area. It also applies in the NATO context. I think it was important that Norway prioritised its efforts in the Balkans instead of efforts elsewhere in the world, for example. in Lebanon, and I want to add – now that we have a discussion about problems in Norwegian defence – that there is no answer to the challenge of doing less. The time has now come for us in the NATO context to deliver out there if we are to get solidarity back if the problems are to increase in our part of the world. We are now so lucky that we live in one of Europe's peaceful corners, but then the time has come for us to deliver out there. So a few words about the European Pillar of Atlantic Cooperation, that is also an important part of the position on cooperation in 1999. I would like to say that I think it is right that Europe is aiming to contribute more, and that is why it is a proper development that the European NATO allies have now set in motion in the EU context. But I want to add at the same time that if Norway feels like we're now falling on the outside, and it may well be that we can do in some contexts, it's simply our own fault. We have chosen to stay out of the cooperation many of our European allies are implementing, and we cannot complain that they want to get closer together for this cooperation. It is therefore important that Norway has a positive attitude to the work being done, that we try to contribute as much as possible, but at the same time we understand that the connectivity mechanisms we are discussing are only half-hearted solutions to what is the only viable solution, namely that Norway also finds its place as a full participant on the European scene. I don't see this as a contradiction to our Atlantic orientation; I see it rather that if Norway is really going to help maintain a good relationship over the Atlantic, then it's important to be a full decision maker on the European scene. No matter what idea we had to develop here at home, we have to face up to the fact that for the vast majority of American decision-makers, Europe and the European Union are synonymous. That is what is going on in the EU, which will help set the tone for transatlantic relations from the European side, and that is why it is so frustrating that we are only half-way participating on the European side. I think it is very important that we maintain the transatlantic ties, and the setting is very clear in that area. But then we have to note that we have set ourselves so that there is something we do not contribute as much as we could have contributed to. I think the United States will always have its place in European politics, despite what you have to see in American electoral campaign rhetoric. And it is important for us to stress that we want American presence in Europe. But at the same time, I would like to say that this must lead to us also understanding the American role outside Europe. Because it is not that we can say that the Americans must be fully involved in Europe, while, of course, the Europeans must keep their hands on everything else in the world. We must have an understanding of the role that the Americans also have in this area. There are many things that could put transatlantic relations under pressure, and one of them is the debate on national missile defence. I see many good arguments against it, but I believe, on the other hand, that on the European side we are well served to listen attentively to the arguments of the Americans, and in fact they have some arguments that are very, very good. So finally, there is a good deal to say about the relationship with Russia and Ukraine in the vote, to which I just want to refer. I think it's important to include Russia. And finally, I would just like to draw attention to the fact that, after Serbia approaches democracy, we now have one major problem of democracy in Europe, namely Belarus. Let's focus on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e214	Today, when we discuss any international organisation, the key concepts will be ‘development’ and ‘change’, and NATO is no exception to this. During the period we referred to as the ‘cold war’, NATO was essentially a defence alliance. When communism collapsed ten years ago, the Soviet Union ceased to exist in its form, the Berlin Wall was demolished and the Warsaw Pact was dissolved, a lot of people probably saw that NATO could have a special role after that. It turned out to be wrong. NATO quickly became an important bridge builder through cooperation, dialogue and partnership with countries that had previously made part of the enemy image. And there can be no particular doubt that, through this, NATO has evolved into a significant driving force in promoting stability and security throughout the Euro-Atlantic region. NATO is trying to include all and not exclude anyone in this work. Once former members of the Warsaw Pact have become members of the organisation so quickly, and more will become members in the future, this shows the role and function of NATO today. And you can ask the question, why then a military alliance? You can have an ideal approach to such a question, but if we're going to get drawn with realism into this, there's no doubt that in the foreseeable future we're going to need a military alliance. Although the danger of military attacks on the members of the alliance today is so unlikely that it can hardly be measured, we know little about what the future can bring. However, we cannot ignore uncertainty and instability along the outer boundaries of the alliance, which can lead to situations that are difficult to judge today. Paradoxically, NATO faced its greatest challenge following the major changes that occurred in the late 1980s and early 1990s, most recently in Kosovo. Today, work is under way on democratisation, reconstruction and mutual understanding in Kosovo. A choice has been made that shows a desire for peace and reconciliation. There are also elections in Serbia that show with all due clarity that the people want peace, reconciliation and development. None of these things would, in my opinion, have been possible without NATO's action under the difficult situation in which it was. Of course, it may have been desired that the negotiations would have resulted in results that would have made the use of military power unnecessary, and there are still those who believe that continuing negotiations would have been the right way to go. My assessment is that if we had negotiated further, we would still have negotiated, and the abuses in Kosovo could have remained unhindered. The former president of the Yugoslav Federation was unable or unwilling to achieve results without the use of power. The Presidential election a short time ago underlined this further. He refused to bow to the election result, and it was only when the people put power behind their demands that he arrived at the end that he had lost the election. The legal basis for the operation was in place, according to Stortingen's assessment, and this was consistent with the views of other parliaments in the democratic world. Support both politically and economically in Serbia is crucial in the current state of Serbia. NATO will be one of the factors that have a major impact on the further stability and security of our region of the world. Another will be the ESDP. Norway should find its place in this security policy cooperation within the EU. Now the representative Petersen says that we can complain that we are not a member of the European Union. So it was the people who said this, and our task is to find the best solution within the model that is now. It is those who believe that NATO should dampen its military activity, and those who take this position, in my opinion, will need to see two possible solutions: 1st@item: inlistbox The security and stability of our part of the world is guaranteed once and for all.2. In the event of any crisis, the United States must be responsible for both its strength, its assessments and its decisions. The first one is not likely. The other is not desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e242	I limit my barely measured speaking time to a detailed reason for the comment of the Progress Party in the vote. It is about the EU's plans to form a European arm within NATO, the so-called European defence identity, which requires a substantial realignment of the defence structure in Europe. As you know, the EU wants to establish its own army that can intervene in international crises outside the EU. An important prerequisite for implementing the plans is that the EU will be able to make use of NATO infrastructure and logistics. Another important premise is that the power to initiate and carry out such military actions is transferred from the VEU to the EU. All of this has been decided and means that the VEU, where 28 countries are involved, will be replaced in this area by the EU with its 15 members. While Norway is now part of all key bodies of the WEU, Norway will in the future only gain certain rights to be consulted by the EU, thereby losing significant influence within the new defence system. Our main future problem is that key issues within NATO could be discussed bilaterally between the United States and the EU, and that the outcome of the negotiations would then be presented to Norway as a fully established reality. This is the situation facing Norway today. However, it is still an important matter that has not yet been decided within the EU, and that is how it should proceed with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western Union. Members from 28 European countries meet here to discuss foreign and defence policy issues. The VEU Council, where only 10 EU governments are full members, is obliged to report to the Assembly and answer questions. Norway is an associated member and, as such, is a member of all committees and has the right to submit proposals and their voting rights. The question is what will happen to this Assembly when the tasks of the VEU Council are transferred to the EU. Germany's attitude seems clear. Foreign Minister Fischer, representing the Greens, has stated that the EU should be developed into a federal state and appears to have general support for this view both from the CDU and the SPD. This means that the European Parliament must become a federal parliament that will also control the EU's defence and foreign policy. It follows that the VEU Assembly must be abolished. There can be no two competing parliaments in these areas. The EU Parliament is interested in being given greater power and has been informed in a report of 6 October this year that the WEU Assembly will be closed. On the other hand, the French Minister of Defence, Alain Richard, stated on 16 October this year that the VEU Assembly is of great value and must be maintained, although it needs to be adapted to the other organisational changes in the EU. He said, at the moment, we're proposing, i.e. the French Presidency, not only to maintain the competence of the national parliaments and the role of the European Parliament based on its information, but also the forum represented by the Western European Union Assembly. This issue will not be addressed at the EU Summit in Nice in December. It is obvious in Norway's interest that our parliamentarians are given the best opportunity to exchange views with parliamentarians from other European countries, not least EU countries, on defence and foreign policy issues. It must be equally clear that Norway is not interested in the EU developing into a federal state with the European Parliament as a federal parliament. There has been little discussion in Norway about these key issues, and it is unclear to me what attitude our government takes and what opportunities it has to communicate any views. When the question was discussed a few months ago between the VEU parliamentarians and ambassadors in Brussels, it seemed that the Norwegian ambassador was uninstructed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e253	The news of NATO cooperation for 1999 also deals with the NATO summit, which was held in Washington last April. As one of those who got to attend there, I kind of had the feeling of being at a meeting of great, not to say historical, significance. One thing was the marking of the 50th anniversary of NATO, but another and more forward-looking case was the decision of the new strategic concept for NATO, which provides guidelines for a new era. NATO has shown the ability to change. In the past, NATO was, at least for some, the symbol of Europe's block policy and division. But the alliance that defends democracy and with the principle of collective defence made the alliance attractive. When the revolution rolled through countries in eastern and central Europe for ten years and the Warsaw Pact fell, several of these countries would enter NATO. Three have already been recorded, and this was also marked at the Washington Summit. NATO is gradually becoming more of a pan-European organisation, and it is nothing less than history that former members of the Warsaw Pact became members of NATO after relatively few years, which was seen as the great opponent. NATO has also demonstrated its capacity for cooperation to the east through the PFP, the Partnership for Peace, to which 26 countries are linked. This cooperation also indicates that NATO does not have offensive intentions but is a defence alliance and, in reality, a peace organisation. And I look forward to even more countries from Eastern and Central Europe becoming members of NATO. What otherwise dominated NATO's work in 1999 was the Kosovo crisis. For those of us who were involved and made decisions to go to military action in Kosovo, I would like to say that there were no simple decisions. There was nothing one did with the light heart. It worked intensively with both political and diplomatic instruments to find a peaceful solution. And President Milosevic got a lot of chances, but he didn't arrest them. That is why, even after an overall assessment and in consultations with the bodies of the Storting, the then government found it necessary to legitimise military use of power. It had its background in the UN Security Council Resolution of September 1998 and its non-compliance, and thus a anchor in international law. Some of the force at NATO has been the strong transatlantic dimension. The development of a stronger institutionalisation of a European security and defence policy linked around the EU, the ESDP. Norway is and should be in favour of Europe taking increased responsibility for security and defence policy, but we must also actively monitor and contribute to this in a way that maintains strong transatlantic ties. And this is not primarily because we are not a member of the EU, but because it is so important to our security, and because the strength of NATO cooperation depends on strong transatlantic links. Finally, let me also say that I agree with Mr Gundersen's representative that the way the European Union is now taking is most uncertain, and it may also have implications for European security and defence policy. If the EU evolves in the direction suggested by Minister of Foreign Affairs Fischer in Germany, he has supporters of it, it is clear that this can have a major impact on European security and defence policy and relations with NATO. Therefore, it is also interesting to know in that perspective what the Norwegian Government, which is concerned with Norwegian EU membership, about whether the development of the EU – whether it wants it towards a federal state or a situation where Member States play a greater role.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e268	The communication on cooperation in NATO for 1999 undoubtedly marks one of the most dramatic and eventful years in the history of the alliance: The actions of war in Kosovo, the decision on NATO’s new strategic concept, the admission of three new members and the development of the ESDP mean that the 1999 notification year will be a long way off as a time gap in NATO’s history. The transformation of cooperation in NATO has continued throughout the 1990s, as a consequence of the dramatic political changes in Europe. New NATO tasks are primarily related to crisis management and peace operations. But even though the alliance's involvement is expanded, there must be no doubt that the collective defence is still the pillar of NATO. Moreover, the development of a clearer European role in defence and security policy must not result in a weakening of transatlantic ties. For Norway, as for example: having based its defence on pre-storage and rescue forces, the Atlantic dimension is of particular importance. The implementation of the Kosovo operations demonstrated the full importance of political and military cooperation between the European and North American Allies. Although the statements of the NATO Summit in Washington and the Cologne EU Summit set out to strengthen the European country's capacity for crisis management and strengthening the EU's common foreign and security policy, strong transatlantic cooperation remains necessary. Increased European crisis management capacity will contribute to enhanced security throughout the European region. Defence and security policy cooperation between NATO and the EU aims both to change the burden-sharing between Europe and the United States and to make more rational use of total European military resources. The duplication of precious resources that took place when NATO and the Western Union operated with partially parallel concepts is now being phased out. NATO operations and the presentation of the new strategic concept of the alliance have updated the issue of the international legal basis for military operations when NATO and the EU operate ‘out of area’. It is important to maintain the reference of the strategy concept to the UN Charter as the basis for alliance operations. Use of power must be based on international law, either in agreement with the parties, on the right to self-defence under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter, or on a mandate from the Security Council. The Committee points out in the preamble that in the United Kingdom there was broad support for the Government’s assessment of the necessary constitutional basis for the use of military power during the Kosovo conflict. In the discussion on the basis for NATO to undertake crisis management tasks in the Euro-Atlantic area, it is important to stress that such decisions are taken on a case-by-case basis and require consensus in the alliance. Although in Kosovo it was not possible to obtain an explicit authorisation of power use from the Security Council, Resolution 1199 of the Council stated that the situation posed a threat to peace and security in the area and announced further action if the immediate armistice requirement was not met. Norway has supported the enlargement process in NATO and NATO's cooperation with the 26 partner countries. The Committee stresses the importance of involving other countries, in particular Russia and Ukraine, in broad cooperation in Europe. It is the broad political and military cooperation that can provide greater security throughout the Euro-Atlantic region.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e283	NATO's action against Yugoslavia made 1999 a very special NATO year. The story has not had a thorough debate on what lessons we can draw from the action. SV believes it is unfortunate that a summary of the ‘lessons learning’ in Kosovo, so to speak, has only taken place in the greatest secret in professional-military circles. It would be an advantage with a more open review of the experience. Today's case of NATO cooperation in 1999 provides an opportunity to highlight important aspects of the Kosovo conflict. SV was the only party with a real debate, and despite strong disagreement in SV, the majority of the SV's population was included in the majority of the Stortinget who stood behind the action against Yugoslavia. SV believes we have a common obligation to look critically at how the NATO action was carried out. The first question we should ask ourselves is what consequences the Kosovo conflict can have on international law and the understanding of international law. The government has claimed that international law was not violated during NATO's action. This is controversial. A report recently concluded that the action was legitimate but not legal. This is comprehensive for the vision that SV used to support the action. Faced with the dramatic situation of the Kosovar Albanians, SV considered that NATO’s intervention was legitimate. In view of future situations and international precedents, it is important to prevent any undermining of respect for international law. The second question we have to ask ourselves is whether NATO showed sufficient respect for the humanitarian international law of the war. There is no such thing as human war or human bombing. We have no illusions about that. However, when Norway is involved in international cooperation to promote better protection of children and civilians in general in war and conflict, it should be natural that we should also ask ourselves whether more could have been done to protect the civilian population during the Kosovo conflict. It's unacceptable when civilian targets are deliberately hit. After all, it was the case when the headquarters of the state Serbian TV and radio company, RTS, was bombed and 16 civilians killed. Nor can it be considered a military target when a passenger train was bombed on a railway bridge, or when displaced civilians were attacked in Djakovica, to mention some examples. The choice of weapon types will involve and determine the degree of civil damage. NATO's use of class bombs, cluster bombs, is thus critical. Undetonated class bombs are now a major problem, among other things. in Kosovo. 54 people shall have been killed by such bombs in Kosovo between June 1999 and March this year. The use of weapons containing depleted uranium is another serious problem concerning the type of weapon. Norway must help to promote a common interpretation of the international law of war within NATO and contribute to NATO's adoption of the highest standards. NATO does not have credibility as a defender of human rights if one ceases to do so in order to protect civilians in the event of future conflicts. 1999 was also the year of NATO's new strategic concept. Many countries believe that NATO, with its new strategic doctrine, has legitimised that the alliance should be able to carry out military actions outside the area of the alliance. This is problematic, especially with regard to Russia, which will not accept the extension of NATO to Russia’s borders or the extension of its scope of operation to outside Europe. In the SV's view, the rule must be that military operations are not carried out in countries outside the territory of the Member States, so-called 'out of area', without the approval of the UN Security Council. This is important in order to maintain the fragile international legal order that exists. The SV will promote a proposal for Norway to take the initiative of an independent legal opinion assessing whether the use of NATO military forces outside the territory of the alliance, as opened up in NATO’s strategic concept, is in line with the United Nations Charter’s demands for the use of military power. One side of NATO's strategy that we, the SV, believe deserves much more of critical attention is the role nuclear weapons play in the alliance. Much more needs to be done to eliminate nuclear weapons worldwide. If one is going to have an impact on the new nuclear countries in order to get them to report their nuclear weapons, the NATO countries cannot claim their right to possess nuclear weapons and foreshadow the right to first use. SV would therefore also propose that the Storting should ask the Government to work towards NATO having the first use of nuclear weapons as a military option. In this I address the SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e313	Lisbet Ruggtvedt has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e316	I am pleased to note that among the members of the Committee there is a clear majority in favour of the broad agreement on Norway's approach to NATO cooperation. Throughout the post-war period, it has been an important goal to have such an agreement, and this is not least important now in a breakup period in which we are in. We've had good-bye to NATO as a pure defense organization. NATO has today a double problem. On the one hand, collective defence, on the other, European crisis management in cooperation with the UN, the OSCE and the EU. The shift in power in Yugoslavia, which has already been mentioned by many, means that the possibility of building lasting peace and stability in the Balkans is radically strengthened. I am convinced that President Kostunica wants profound economic and political reforms and the integration of Yugoslavia into European cooperation. It will take time to achieve these objectives, and it will require international political and financial support. The government wants to actively support the positive developments we've seen. President Kostunica today, as everyone knows, opens an official visit to Norway. During the talks with him, we will underline our strong political support and willingness to assist the new democratic Yugoslavia. The experience of Kosovo and Bosnia underlines the need for a long-term effort to focus on democratisation and institution building, the establishment of the rule of law and respect for human rights and social and economic development. The Balkan countries are bound together in a community of fate. Political stability and economic progress cannot be ensured without close regional cooperation. I think Jan Petersen's reference is necessary and correct. He said: democratisation is not enough in Serbia, reconciliation is necessary in Kosovo. That is why it is so important to support democracy in Yugoslavia, because it must be possible to assume that the chance and will for reconciliation are greater under a democracy than under a dictatorship. We don't want everything we hear from Kostunica – we haven't, but the point is that we support here a democratically elected president who we must believe has a greater capacity and willingness for reconciliation than the regime that existed before. Kosovo illustrates the new challenges facing NATO in many ways. The Kosovo operation confronted us with dilemmas related to mandates for the operation and the selection of means of power. Political control is of general importance. At the same time, it is important for both the alliance as a whole and for each Member State to anchor the resolution in the national parliaments. I am pleased that there was a broad consensus in the Storting that the necessary international and legal legitimisation of power use existed before Norway and the other allies endorsed the military operations. The experience of NATO's involvement has since been thoroughly evaluated in both NATO and the Member States. We have also carried out such a review on the Norwegian side. The conclusions of these reviews will provide important guidance for any corresponding future operations. Kosovo and Bosnia also show the importance of internal cohesion in the alliance, and above all the existence of transatlantic ties. Active US involvement in Europe will continue to be crucial for stability and security on our own continent. At the same time, Europe must take greater responsibility. The development of crisis management capabilities within the framework of the European Defence and Security Policy, the ESDP, is of great importance. The ESDP concerns all allies, not because it is to replace NATO, but because the EU can and should act as a partner to the alliance. It will increase our overall capacity for crisis management, it will strengthen our European security, and it will contribute to a better division of labour between the EU and NATO, which in turn will contribute to strengthening the transatlantic links. Therefore, the ESDP concerns the essential Norwegian interests. It is in our interest to contribute to the success of the project. The government is working for a densest possible Norwegian link to the new EU cooperation. And we've made it clear that we can contribute significant military and civil resources. During the meeting of the Minister of Defence with his colleagues in the EU after the EU Force Generation Conference next month, our military contributions will be formalised. We focus on substantive consultation and cooperation arrangements between the EU and the six allied non-EU countries. In addition, we want more practical cooperation and contact in the form of Norwegian participation in expert discussions. Such arrangements will be instruments that ensure that our contributions and preparations are relevant and that we can quickly take decisions on participation in EU-led operations. I look relatively optimistic about the opportunities for mechanisms that ensure the involvement of the six allied non-EU countries in the formulation of decisions prior to any EU-led crisis management operations and participation in the day-to-day management of operations. Another expression of Norway’s willingness to contribute to stability and security in Europe is our leadership responsibility for KFOR from April next year. This will be a major challenge and will lead to considerable costs, but it will also enable us to win more attention to our views on NATO's further development. At the same time, the mission will demonstrate Norway’s competence that could be significant in future EU-led operations. For Norway, it is important to support the open door policy of NATO. This is done through bilateral cooperation with the nine candidate countries and active participation in the NATO Partnership for Peace programme. The next NATO summit will focus more on enlargement issues, probably in 2002. The government attaches great importance to the fact that enlargement should not create new dividing lines in Europe and that no country should be excluded on the basis of geographical location. The latter is not least relevant with regard to the Baltic States. The desire to avoid creating new dividing lines in Europe is also at the root of the Government’s emphasis on active and close cooperation with non-declared candidate countries for membership. This applies not least to Russia. European security can only be built in cooperation with Russia. Therefore, the Government will focus on exploiting the opportunities of the NATO-Russia Council, in parallel with strengthening bilateral cooperation. NATO has more than any other organization adapted to the new reality after the collapse of the Soviet Union. It is my opinion that the alliance will continue to constitute the pillar of the security of Norway and Europe. The transatlantic ties will continue to be the foundation of the security of all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e348	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e352	Developments in the Balkans, and in Kosovo in particular, have strengthened the view that there is no acceptable political solution to Kosovo's problems. In the past, the Progress Party has called for Kosovo to have some form of independence, and we believe that this is necessary in order to find a solution to the situation down there. Now I've read in the paper that Secretary of State Espen Barth Eide has given signals that could indicate that the government is also thinking in those paths. I would like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs whether the Government will work internationally to achieve Kosovo's independence in line with the wish of the overwhelming majority of the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e359	When the representative, Dag Danielsen, says that there is no acceptable political solution for Kosovo, I must say that I disagree with that. It is only one solution for Kosovo, and it is political. I hope he does not believe that there is a military solution for Kosovo, in which case we will be back where we were. So to the question of where all this will end, whether it will end with independence for Kosovo. I think it's wise now to stick to the United Nations resolution that we have. Then we must try to support democracy in Yugoslavia, we must continue to support the construction of Kosovo economically, politically and humanitarianly, and then we will see where this leads. I have a strong belief that a democratic Yugoslavia, whether it becomes a democratic Serbia, Montenegro or what it is – we do not yet know – a democratic government, a democratic regime in Belgrade included in the international community, will have a greater tendency to create reconciliation with Kosovo and a greater tendency to create reconciliation with Bosnia-Herzegovina than a dictatorship and despotism like what we had in Belgrade in the past. I think it's way too early for Norway to go in for any solution other than that provided for in the UN resolution. I just think that we have to work on the basis that I say here, and then I think it's important that there is an internationally coordinated position on this issue. At least I believe it is important that we stick with our allies in NATO on what is going to happen in Kosovo, not trying to play any solo games. Not at this time, nor at a later date, I hope that this will be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e368	Today, we are discussing NATO cooperation rather than the EU issue, but on the other hand, there is a clear link between the two organisations, in particular due to the development of the European Security and Defence Identity, now called the European Defence and Security Policy, the ESDP. The development of the EU will have a major impact on the ESDP decision-making process. If the EU is to move towards a European federal state, as Minister for Foreign Affairs Fischer has actually called for, the role of the Member States will be greatly weakened, including in security and defence policy. And since our own foreign minister is so eager to get Norway in as an EU member, there is particular reason to ask him the following: What development does the Foreign Minister want in this area? What is the EU he wants Norway into? As Mr Fischer, does he want a federal European Union? And in this context – relevant: What consequences does the Foreign Minister see that in that case it will have for our security and defence policy, our own influence over it and our own decisions in that context?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e375	I heard that Kjell Magne Bondevik also took this up in his post, and I wondered for a while why this is coming now. Many theoretical considerations can be made about where the EU will go. It's not very interesting for Norway now. What is interesting for Norway now is, in fact, to gain as much access as possible to the new EU defence and security policy, because it affects our involvement in NATO, because it has a significant impact on European security at all, and therefore on Norway. Where is the EU going? As long as I've been in politics, there's been a discussion about it. The only thing I can see now is that the whole of Europe is looking for the EU. There are twelve countries that are now negotiating membership, and in addition, we have Turkey that wants to enter the negotiating position and that are likely to get there. The new situation in Yugoslavia has led to a new situation in the Balkans, which could lead to the accession of countries that can enter a negotiating position with the EU. I think it's much better to deal with this situation than to hold a theoretical discussion about whether it's going to be the United States of Europe or not. I find it difficult to imagine that the EU, with an enlargement of 12-13 countries, perhaps even more, would become a United States of Europe that is overruled by the nation states. I believe that developments will continue in the direction that the nation states are applying to the EU for increased security and for solving their own problems, which are otherwise common on this continent. I think it's much better that Norway relates to this reality than that one entangles into some theoretical reasoning that at best can be interesting right now when we're discussing here in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e384	In the light of the latest, I will refrain from a further debate on the European issue, although it would have been extremely tempting, but I have understood the compromises that are under development in the Workers' Party, so that the party will now have the freedom to take action on the EU case provided that the freedom of action is not exercised. That's how I read the compromise with the no-side. I'm going to stick to NATO and the enlargement question, because it was one of the important things in 1999. I've always thought that enlargement is important. I also meant it at a time when, as the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party, the Foreign Minister thought it was unusually unwise to think that NATO should be expanded. But now it's happened, and it's happened in a way that's gone very well. We received many warnings in advance about what would happen, not least in the East-West relationship, when the three new members entered NATO, but all predictions were made to shame. It has by no means worsened the relationship east-west. There have been completely different factors that have governed the relationship east-west. So the Foreign Minister said something that makes me ask questions. He stressed that further enlargement should not lead to new dividing lines in Europe. I agree with that, but an extension does not lead to new dividing lines. The dividing lines go elsewhere than they did before, but it is not the case that enlargement with the three new Member States has led to new dividing lines; only a boundary line has been given elsewhere than before. That must also apply to the future enlargement. I hope that the foreign minister’s reasoning does not lead to Norway wanting to be passive on enlargement issues. I hope that Norway will be high on the track and wish for a second round of enlargement with a not insignificant number of new countries entering NATO, and ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to confirm or cancel it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e397	First of all, the question that Jan Petersen said had nothing to do with the debate. We want to have a freedom of action in the next big period, but we also want to say that we should first use that freedom of action if we really have a new situation. By doing so, I do not believe that enlargement is a fact that everyone has come in, but that, as a result of the fact that it actually starts up, there is another situation within Norway as well. That's why I mean, and I hope we'll agree to that, that it's wise to hold on to the fact that we have to have some freedom of action on this issue in the next period just because so much happens. In fact, there is a historical upheaval we are facing in Europe for the next four to five years if 12 countries start moving into the EU, and the 13th country, Turkey, does the same, and if we also get a new situation in the Balkans. I cannot understand with my best will that there is then some good foreign policy for the country to say no, we shall not under any circumstances think again through our relationship with the European Union. I'm going to do that in every context. With regard to the extension of NATO, we are on the verge of consensus in the Storting that it should continue step by step. We took in three members. We wouldn't go any further, because it could just create new dividing lines. Later, we should move forward with new countries. What is at least clear from the Norwegian side is that no geographical dividing line can be established by e.g.: shall not move up to the Russian border. It's not a principle to build on at all. The principle is that democratic countries have the right to membership in NATO, because NATO is a defender of democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e409	I will try not to fall for the temptation to make this a general EU debate. I have seen the Minister of Foreign Affairs both in the Roman language and also in the annual meeting in the South-Trendelag Workers' Party, so that there were so many reservations about the Workers' Party's wish to send a new EU application during the next major period that it was almost parked. And there is certainly nothing in the European Union that should mean facing an enlarged EU during the next enlargement period. No matter how the formulations fall, it seems that the desire and sorrow of the result last pop up in the Labour Party's leadership. But it is NATO that is on the agenda today, and I have to say that I think it might be an exaggeration when the Foreign Minister says that NATO has more than any other organisation adapted to the new situation after the end of the Cold War. I think perhaps that the Warsaw Pact adapted more – it was closed. It was a better statement that the two fronts and the two superpowers that stood against each other did not have the same problems that the cold war led to. Bondevik also goes quite far when he says that NATO is now almost a defence alliance that has actually become a peace organization. I see the song of praise to NATO lying heavily above the hall. So let me mix up a little bit of criticism. In fact, NATO still relies on the first use of nuclear weapons. And if it was pointless during the time of the terror balance, then it's even more pointless afterwards. After being left with one so-called defence Salliance and one superpower, it is a very important job that Norway can do, and that is to contribute to the resolution of the first-use strategy, because of course it is used as a significant argument that other countries also want nuclear weapons. Will Norway work for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e420	Despite the fact that this is not an EU debate, I am constantly being pressured to say something about it. When Kristin Halvorsen says that there is nothing to suggest that we are facing an expansion in the next enlargement period, I do not understand where she has it from. What is actually the case is that enlargement – if you believe in the plans laid down – will start in the next enlargement period, and that it can be very extensive. We didn't know that in 1994. What I've been saying, and I hope it will be agreed to, is that if the assumptions we had in 1994 change dramatically, there must be opportunities for us to rethink the situation. That's what happens in Iceland now. So time gets to show what's actually going to happen. However, depriving oneself of any opportunity to think through this situation is not a very responsible foreign policy. With regard to NATO's first use, there is no first-use doctrine for NATO, but there is an option to use nuclear weapons in a very special situation. I think the most important thing now is to continue disarmament of nuclear weapons on all fronts. You've done it. The weapons have been removed, including: was more suitable for pushing forward a situation with the first use of nuclear weapons. I think it should go that way. At the NATO summit in Washington, to which Kjell Magne Bondevik referred, a process was also set up in NATO to review the entire NATO arms control and disarmament strategy. And it's clear that in this context, it's natural to evaluate these questions. But you don't get away from the fact that the most important thing is to keep reducing the amount of nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e427	The EU issue has become a central issue in this debate. Let me stress that it is not the Central Party that has brought the matter into this debate on NATO, but when the topic is addressed, it becomes a little interesting to clarify what the Foreign Minister is now talking about, in relation to the claim of an EU compromise, which was the message of the Trondheim meeting. It was very clear from the foreign minister's intervention now that the foreign minister as head of the Workers' Party wanted freedom of action. And then this becomes interesting. What the Foreign Minister has said before is that he wants freedom of action in order to apply for membership – freedom of action in order to apply for membership. But now it's talking about a compromise that's going to weaken this impression. My simple question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is therefore: If it is a matter of freedom of action, is it a matter of freedom of action other than freedom of action in order to apply for membership, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has explained earlier?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e432	To refer to what I said in Trondheim, I just want to say the following: I think it was the NRK Dagsrevyen who produced what I said, as a compromise proposal. What I did was to repeat what I said the first time I talked about this – it was in February, even before I became Minister for Foreign Affairs – that it is wise for Norway to be able to keep a certain opening so that one can start a process and get an analysis of this issue again, provided two things: one is that enlargement actually starts, as we have talked about. The second point is that there has to be another situation in Norway, a broader consensus to do so. That's what I said in February. I just repeated these two points. For the journalist concerned, it may have seemed as news that I repeated what I said in February, but that is actually the situation. As I have said repeatedly here, I think it is wise to have some readiness for this. If you now say that we knew all this in 1994, it is wrong in my opinion. What we talked about in 1994 was that enlargement could be about two-three-four countries. At the time, Erik Solheim said that if that happened, he could think about the situation again and possibly reconsider his position. Now we are talking about 12 countries, and we can imagine that the whole of Europe can join the European Union. These include: the basis for Iceland initiating a process to consider its situation. It should only be lacking if Norway too should have a freedom of action to do so during the next major period. Otherwise, what I am now saying should be a very good compromise.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e440	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e443	There is a broad consensus in the UK that Norway must seek close links with the new EU cooperation on security and defence policy. Nevertheless, it is clear that, according to the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement to the UK on 9 June this year, Norway can only count on two consultation meetings this year with the EU at ministerial level. This means that Norway and the five other associated countries are placed on the sideline in relation to their current participation in the WEU. In the VEU, Norway participates in the internal discussion and also has the opportunity to participate in the decision-making process itself. Nevertheless, it is now assumed that Norway will contribute with soldiers. My question is: Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs satisfied with the situation? Does he realistically believe that Norway can achieve a stronger position than the one he outlined on 9 June? I am also asking this question because it is obvious that Turkey, another associated VEU country, has not resolved the situation. As far as I understand, Turkey has threatened to block the EU's automatic access to NATO equipment if the country's participation in the EU decision-making process is not organised more satisfactorily. Can the Foreign Minister confirm that Turkey has adopted this position, and what does he think of it? Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware of the position Iceland takes on these questions? Dr Simon Duke of the European Institute of Public Administration has warned that the transfer of tasks from the WEU to the EU will result in a greater influence of the EU's neutral states on defence policy than the six associated States, which are NATO. Nevertheless, it is unclear whether all six associated parties are united in their efforts to achieve greater influence on EU defence cooperation. According to the Turkish Daily News newspaper, a ministerial meeting was scheduled between the six, no success, since only three states sent ministers. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs confirm that such a meeting has taken place — or should it take place? Did Norway send a minister to this meeting, perhaps why not? So there is a question I hope to get a clear answer to – I refer to our remark in the committee position: Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree with the European Parliament that the VEU Assembly should be closed? Or does he agree with the French Minister for Defence when he believes that the assembly should be maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e456	I don't intend to start anything that can give a picture of a defence debate. But I couldn't help but hear what the Foreign Minister said about the willingness and ability to contribute during EU-led operations and NATO operations. That's something that's supported by a broad majority of the Biggest, maybe on slightly different premises. I would strongly advise the Minister for Foreign Affairs to consult his colleague, the Minister for Defence, to see that there is consistency between foreign policy desires and views and resources in the exercise of what is required by foreign policy. Here I think the Foreign Minister will discover that participation in KFOR is clearly under-budgeted, as is the fact that under-budgeting of military training results in a much shorter period of service than the 12 months on which it is based, which in turn contributes to eroding the basis for full, safe and predictable participation in international operations. I would certainly ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to convene something more closely with the Minister for Defence than seems to have been the case in advance of the draft budget. So to the part with which I want to confront the Minister of Foreign Affairs. In connection with the visit of the Defence Committee to Brussels not so many weeks ago, where we were also in Brunssum and headquarters, which then governs us, it became quite clear, also from SHAPE in that context, that it does not seem to be, in fact, the complete need to have the so-called third level of command structure. We've just adopted a command structure, and it's about to be implemented. But then it's called from a professional military team: we don't really need the third level. What's third is Yåttå, and our command structure is also nationally under review. My question is: if it is that we are now moving towards a new round of change in the headquarters structure in NATO, what position does the Minister of Foreign Affairs have on this? What is the Government's position on what is obviously political in order to maintain a NATO headquarters on Norwegian soil? Another area that was also affected was the issue of the Combined Air Operations Center, i.e. the CAOC. As we also pointed out, there are 13 of them within the alliance. So in terms of the ability to conduct allied operations, there are 13 such Combined Air Operations Centers within the NATO structure. Militaryly, you can deal with four, that's the answer that we've got, two mobiles and two permanents. Since, after all, we now have a similar centre in Norway, it is also of interest to know what the position of the Minister for Foreign Affairs – whether he is willing to – may be to assume an economic role to support the continued presence of NATO in this area. I am asking this question because it is also important to know, in the national debate that lies ahead, whether a political struggle is to maintain an international structure, i.e. a NATO structure on Jåttå. If the signal is that this must be done as you like, then the national command structure in development there is much more open. I expect the Minister for Foreign Affairs to have a clear objective for Norway in terms of its command structure and challenges, and to respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e469	Just a few closing remarks: one is about the EU, because I have the impression that some people think that the EU issue has nothing to do with this debate. To that I have to say that it does. The point is that when the EU develops its cooperation in the field of security policy, defence policy and foreign policy, it will have a significant impact on us, including for our cooperation in NATO. We are in the situation that the more Europeans will cooperate, the weaker Norway will vote on this side of the Atlantic. For this reason, Norway has taken a completely voluntary stand in a very difficult situation, which, of course, is quite legitimate to discuss when discussing NATO and transatlantic relations. I think we have to face up to the fact that for the Americans there is a great deal of convergence between the concept of Europe and the European Union, and that means that it is the European Union as a political centre of gravity that will largely determine what the climate over the Atlantic will be like. So this has a great deal to do in this debate, and we have to admit that the interconnecting mechanisms that the Minister for Foreign Affairs spoke about, which I hope will be as good as possible, will never be other than semi-good solutions, because we have said no to the only thing that will give Norway full influence on the European scene. That means that these are things that we should discuss. So it has developed a debate on freedom of action in relation to this matter, and then there are two things I want to emphasise first. One is that it is important for Norway to have freedom of action. In this way, the Minister of Foreign Affairs wishes to be congratulated on his programme work – the right is already free of action, we have that in the current programme of the Great Age – because, as he says, it is right that developments can take new and important turns. The second is that, of course, there is no point in reciting the EU case in the sense that it is being applied for before there is a reasonable chance that the result will be different — or otherwise, that the people think otherwise. That doesn't mean you don't have to discuss what the good solutions are. We should have that kind of membership debate, but membership debate in the sense that an application should be submitted, we should not have until there is solid ground under our feet, and I think we agree on that too. And that's when I wonder a little bit about the Foreign Minister's premise. I agree that enlargement is an important event, but the only thing that can control Norway's policy must be what our Norwegian national interests mean. This means, for example: that if the debate mentioned by the Minister of Foreign Affairs in Iceland were to lead to the Icelanders applying, I believe that Norwegian fishing interests would be well served if we sat down very quickly and looked at whether we should not do the same. I want to say that we should do that regardless of whether Bulgaria is going into the EU or not. Therefore, the Norwegian national interests are the only thing that can guide us on these issues. Otherwise, I just want to add as far as NATO and enlargement are concerned, that I hope that Norway has as active an attitude here as possible. The expansion process is losing momentum. I think it is important that Norway helps to get momentum back. The two proposals SV has promoted, I see from the Right no reason to vote in favour. The first proposal is self-evident, the second proposal I think is hardly appropriate, simply because it is not possible to assess the legal bases without considering them in the context of a completely concrete conflict, and then you have to do as in the Kosovo conflict, measure it against what, among other things. The United Nations has adopted this. That is a very concrete assessment. Many people have great faith in so-called independent legal considerations, but they can only provide us with basic material. There will be the legal rules applied to the situation that will determine what we are doing, and therefore I don't think this proposal is particularly decisive from or to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e480	I took the floor to answer some questions that have been raised now. The first was from Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, who asked if I am satisfied with the consultation arrangements we have received with the EU regarding the ESDP. The answer to that is that we cannot be satisfied as long as we do not sit around the table and make the decisions with the others. However, as Mr Petersen has pointed out earlier in the debate, we can only have that with membership of the European Union, and that is not the case now. So there's a question of getting something better than what came out at the Feira Summit. Our assessment is that the process has been completed. Trying to stress this more and drive it beyond what we've been able to do now, with the good help of some member countries, we think it's wrong. I see that Turkey has such a strategy, but we don't believe that it will lead. What is important now is to contribute to the proper content of the consultations that we are going to have, both at ministerial level and at the level of officials, in other words to ensure that these consultations are wide-ranging and also cover security policy in a broad sense. In addition, we need to ensure that there are procedures in place to ensure that we get the most involved in the practical cooperation that is going to take place here. I believe that this is a better strategy for Norway, and also to take a positive view of the fact that we have something to contribute to this. It is primarily what can now ensure Norway the greatest possible participation and influence. We cannot go any further on a formal basis, because then we are really talking about going over the threshold for which there is no majority in the people – at least that was not in 1994 – and for which there is no will here in the Grand Duchy, namely to apply for membership of the European Union. It's just that way that we can get over the formal threshold that gives us full influence in this. With regard to the future of the Western Union, I refer to Denmark. Denmark is – we need to be aware of this – in a more difficult situation than Norway in terms of the ESDP. In fact, Norway has more involvement and influence in the ESDP than Denmark has because of the four reservations made following the Danish referendum on the Maastricht Treaty. So we don't have the same interest in the Western Union, you could say, as Denmark seems to have. To Hans Røsjorde, I would like to say that we are very concerned that there should be the most possible presence of NATO in Norway. That's why, of course, we want to fight to keep a NATO headquarters on Norwegian soil, and I think that's going to be possible. From a purely defence policy point of view, based on what is as effective as possible, it is clear that the number of headquarters can be reduced. But if you have a broader view of this, I think it must be important for NATO to be as present in the Member States as possible, and not remote control of everything from Brussels, which could be the ultimate consequence of the military thinking we see here. So the answer is yes, we're going to fight for it to be a NATO presence that way in Norway. And of course, it's absolutely right that there has to be consistency between the resources of the Defence and the international objectives that we have. That is why we are now faced with a rather major restructuring of the defence system in order to transform it into a new era and the new tasks that NATO is now embarking on, so that Norway can participate in them. It will be able to secure our position in NATO. Otherwise, I agree with what Mr Petersen said about European policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e493	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 326]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e507	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the President and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes and for the other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e514	The paper describing the activity of the OSCE in 1998 and 1999 covers an important period for the OSCE as a central organisation for peace and reconciliation in different regions and for the promotion of human rights and democracy. However, this period was also important for Norway. We entered the leadership troika during this period and assumed leadership responsibility in 1999 – a year with significant challenges for the organisation and thus also for Norway as Chairman of the OSCE. The period covered by the notification clearly demonstrates in many ways the opportunities available to the OSCE in the international political arena, but also the constraints encountered by the organisation in the practical exercise of its mandate. This was not least reflected in the OSCE's efforts in Kosovo. When Norway took over the OSCE Presidency in 1999, the OSCE faced the most demanding period in its history. Two difficult, locked and bloody conflicts took place in Kosovo and Chechnya. At the same time, there were conflicts in Georgia, Moldova and Nagorno-Karabakh. But it was the conflicts in Kosovo and Chechnya that first came to mark the Presidency period. The President of the OSCE, former Minister of Foreign Affairs Knut Vollebæk, made a number of visits to various leaders in conflict areas and tried to facilitate a political solution to the conflicts. But when the willingness to negotiate is not there for such solutions, even the OSCE could not prevent the use of violence and abuses from continuing. The Norwegian Presidency, however, made a very respectable effort and gained recognition for it. The OSCE was entrusted with the important but demanding task of establishing the Kosovo Verification Mission [[KVM]] During the Norwegian Presidency, considerable emphasis was also placed on having a good relationship with and working closely with Russia. The conflict in Chechnya with bloody fighting, however, made dialogue with Russia difficult. The OSCE President's clear calls for and efforts to get a truce and negotiations on a political solution were not met. Of course, terrorism must be combated. However, it has been important to stress to Russia that the bastant and extensive Russian military operations have represented a clear violation and an unacceptable burden on the civilian population. Stability and lasting peace in Chechnya can only be achieved through negotiations and dialogue between the Russian authorities and the democratically elected Chechen leaders. Today's situation shows that we're still not in goal, and that some of the problems described here are still, unfortunately, a reality in Chechnya today. A unanimous committee supports the Government’s view of the OSCE’s work and role in conflict prevention and peace-building, as expressed in the Communication. The strength of the OSCE lies in a small, unbureaucratic organisation with a strong political leadership. It provides the organisation with the necessary flexibility to be able to act quickly when critical situations arise. Although the OSCE is based on the consensus principle, it has been shown that the action of the OSCE and its ability to react in critical situations have worked satisfactorily. However, there is a need for some strengthening of the OSCE in the longer-term work on democratisation and strengthening of human rights. For this reason, the Committee also supports the Government's efforts to strengthen the OSCE Secretariat and provide the support apparatus with a certain increase in the budget. Based on the experience gained by Norway during its Presidency, but also on previous presidencies and their experience, it is important that the OSCE Secretariat has both the flexibility and the capacity to take action and to finance it immediately without extensive consultation with the Member States. As mentioned above, 1998 and 1999 were marked by major and severe conflict situations in Europe in which the OSCE was strongly involved. However, the OSCE also has significant tasks in addition to the more direct conflict prevention measures. During the Norwegian Presidency, great emphasis was placed on developing the OSSE's commitment to the human dimension. A number of seminars and special meetings on culture and conflict resolution, religious freedom, equality, etc. was implemented and thus underlined the scope of the OSSE's exposure. I believe that the OSCE must increasingly have these tasks in mind as part of a long-term effort to prevent conflicts and to create reconciliation and stability within its territory. On this point, too, a unanimous committee supports the Norwegian initiative to further develop this side of the OSCE's task. In particular, it is important to empower the OSCE to manage new types of conflicts, including: within the borders of the Member States, as we have identified it today. This was also strongly underlined during the OSCE summit in Istanbul. Despite different assessments and priorities, this summit concluded with an agreement to strengthen the OSCE’s capacity for early warning, conflict prevention, crisis management and democratic construction. The OSCE is an important organisation in conflict prevention and peace-building work in its area. However, it is also necessary for the OSCE to work closely with other organisations in order to achieve its objectives, such as: cooperate closely with NATO and with various UN family organisations. Through better coordinated and structured cooperation with such organisations, the OSCE can also better and more effectively meet the expectations and the role of the OSCE in peace and security cooperation in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e537	I can essentially join in the previous speech, although I am somewhat less optimistic about the importance of this organisation than he is. I think a very important part of the OSCE is sending election observers at the request of different states who want to have some control over and some guarantee that the elections will be seen as democratic and proper. I myself have participated in some of these operations. What's the problem, I think, with these election observations, is that you're there too short in advance, so you really get little idea of what the campaign ahead of the election has been, and what opportunities it has been to express its opinion before the vote. I think it would have been an advantage, if you were to do this a little more seriously on the part of parliamentarians, to have at least a couple of three days to evaluate and talk to people about the election campaign itself. Another funny thing that I've registered is that after it's been counted votes far beyond night and almost out on the morning side, the OSCE's people have already made an opinion about whether this was a democratic election. They've had observers around the country, and they've had parliamentarians who've largely concentrated on the capital's polls, but the OSCE calls together to a press conference where there's a lot of journalists and other people, and gives an assessment of this election, an assessment that I don't think you could possibly have had time to make in a reassuring way. Then it's referred to that there's going to be a more thorough report a month or two later. On the way back from Ukraine, I sat on a plane and read in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung OSCE's assessment of this election I had attended the day in advance. It is clear that no one is going to have any interest in the final assessment coming one or two months later. But the OSCE is, like everyone else in our time, very concerned with publicity. Of course, the organisation's employees and trustees are interested in publicity and feel that they are doing a very important job, and then you have a hurry. The world is wondering what this choice was like, and then you immediately have to convene a press conference in order to make an assessment that is impossible in time to make properly. This was just an aspect of a very important aspect of the OSCE to which I will draw attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e548	Since Fridtjof Frank Gundersen drew attention to what he did, I would draw attention to the fact that it is probably only the parliamentarians of the OSCE who have as short a time as what he was talking about. OSSE is more present than what he said in that post in connection with election observation, and more thorough work is being done. I would first like to say that when the previous Labour Party government took the initiative that Norway should assume its presidency in the OSCE, we were of course aware that it would be a very demanding task. I want to say that the Presidency was carried out in a very good way, by which it stands respect, and I especially want to commend and highlight the important efforts made by former Foreign Minister Knut Vollebæk in his capacity as Chairman of the OSCE. Under the leadership of Norway, the OSCE was an important player, both during the Kosovo crisis and in limiting the level of hostilities in Chechnya. The implementation of the OSCE Summit in Istanbul in November was a political highlight under the Norwegian Presidency. The Presidency also provided valuable experience in a number of important areas, such as: will benefit from the work of Norway in the UN Security Council over the next two years. The development of the OSCE from a forum for dialogue and standardisation to an operational organisation with an active presence in different conflict areas reached its preliminary climax under the Norwegian Presidency. There's no doubt about it. The tragic conflicts in Kosovo and Chechnya posed major challenges to the organisation and the Presidency. The conflicts highlighted the fundamental fact that it is primarily the will of the parties to find peaceful solutions that are essential. It has no intention of imposing political solutions on the parties that they themselves do not want. During the Istanbul Summit, it was decided to strengthen in particular the field activities of the OSCE. This was in line with the Norwegian Presidency’s wish to make the OSCE a more effective tool for conflict management and institution building. The OSCE will continue to be among the most important actors in promoting peace, stability and democracy in Europe. The results of the Istanbul Summit are leading the OSCE’s future tasks and developments. The so-called Safety Pact provides guidelines for actions that will improve the organisation’s capacity for conflict prevention, conflict management and institution building. At the same time, it is clear that the OSCE alone cannot and will not be able to solve many of the major challenges facing the international community in dealing with many difficult conflicts, not least in the context of subsequent reconstruction work. The experience of Kosovo, where the UN, the EU, NATO and the OSCE, together with a number of other international actors and non-governmental organisations, have joined forces on a division of labour to maximise the use of limited resources, is, in the Government’s view, a sensible approach which should be pursued further. In addition to Kosovo, the OSCE is currently carrying out field work in nearly 20 countries and conflict areas. Field activity is the great strength of the OSCE. An extensive presence on the ground provides a good knowledge of local conditions and opportunities to play a constructive role in combating conflicts, and to influence authorities to show greater respect for the OSCE obligations. However, the establishment and operation of field presence is not an objective in itself. The objective is that OCSE presence in the long term should contribute to making itself redundant. When the OSCE terminates its engagement, this could be an expression of the organisation’s success in its objectives. Finally, I would like to say: we will actively support the OSCE activities in the future. At the same time, it is desirable that the OSCE retain its flexible and unbureaucratic form of work, which is one of the basis for the organisation’s ability to act quickly in crisis situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e567	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e570	In my speech, I stated that there is an overall increase that underpins the assessments and initiatives taken by the Government in various areas to develop the OSCE as a viable player in terms of stability and security in Europe. Norway is still in the leadership troika as a former leader of the OSCE and is therefore still closely related to the organisation’s strategy. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the need for coordination for various actors in the security policy work in Europe. Here, different organisations contribute, and if successful cooperation is established, well structured and with good information channels, these organisations can together constitute a powerful tool for such peace-building and stability-building work. The EU has greater ambitions and is developing its own concept of stability and defence policy cooperation in Europe. The UN works through its own strategy and authority as the main global player in peace and security cooperation. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs how the OSCE can now work to coordinate more closely the various initiatives, so that one does not duplicate the initiatives and thus unnecessarily waste resources, but makes sure that these different actors are more closely complementary to each other in the various tasks within this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e577	As Steensnæs pointed out, this is a formidable task. It has been in several contexts in addition to the task of ensuring that international involvement and presence in an area do not freeze the situation, that one simply becomes dependent on a comprehensive international presence, which may seem to be part of the problem, for example. in Bosnia. The need for coordination is very great. Kosovo has succeeded, but it has been a formidable task to have all this associated with the presence of the United Nations, with the presence of the OSCE, with the presence of NATO, and not least with the presence of the hundreds of non-governmental organisations. I just had an early meeting with NATO's SACEUR today, which gave a report on how he views the situation in Kosovo. It's far better than what the corresponding situation was in Bosnia. Significant results have been achieved as a result of this coordination work. I want to say here that the OSCE may not be able to play the role of coordinator. As Steensnæs mentioned, there must be cooperation between all these organisations that need to coordinate themselves. And as I say, this has been achieved in a useful way in Kosovo, but it is a huge challenge to be able to bring it together in a good way, so that everyone can make the best use of their advantages – the UN, the OSCE, NATO, and not least the voluntary organisations, who have played a significant role both in Bosnia and now in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e586	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 327]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e602	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 327]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e616	The EEA Agreement is our most comprehensive international agreement and perhaps the very bearer of Norway's relationship with Europe. The EEA Agreement is the national compromise, if we like, that ensures market access to Europe and thus future well-being. The EEA Agreement is dynamic and flexible, has institutional solutions, a decision-making apparatus and a dispute resolution apparatus. I think it is important when the European Communication is to be discussed in Stortinget, that we are aware that the EEA Agreement is also a bad deal – with the EFTA countries Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein on the one hand and an increasing number of EU countries on the other. This may include: such that, for example: Spain and Italy believe that this agreement is very favourable to the rich EFTA countries. For us, it is important to protect the EEA Agreement, perhaps also to raise awareness among people most about the importance of the agreement for Norway. The proposers of Document No. 8:88 for 1999-2000 has proposed that the Government of the forthcoming European Communication at the same time promote proposals to the Storting on how to strengthen EEA work in order to ensure greater transparency and greater and wider influence in decision-making processes. A unanimous committee shares the views of the proposers and would stress the importance of more information and legitimacy for EEA work in peoples most, and believes that this is one of the issues that should be discussed through the consideration of the European Communication by the Storting. The Committee also considers it natural that a concrete follow-up to the Europe Communication could be an annual notification to the Stortinget — or, where appropriate, a report or statement — on the work on EEA matters. However, this must be dealt with by the Committee at the time of notification, not pre-empting it at this stage in the form of proposals or decisions. But I think we all have a responsibility to obtain information about the EEA Agreement and thus to improve the knowledge of the agreement, why it is necessary as the pillar of our active European policy to safeguard Norway’s – and hence the Norwegian people’s – interests, but also about how it is hindered by the integration process and the future enlargement that is taking place in the EU. In addition, we should assume a responsibility to find out that we cannot defend the agreement on the one hand, in order to present it as a curative matter to say no to the content or part of the content of the agreement. No government has, for example, to date veto the single directive. More information, knowledge and greater participation in and legitimacy for EEA work in the population should, on this basis, be important areas for discussion when the European Communication comes. And on that basis, I would also like to commend the proposers. With this, I recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e633	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that matters be dealt with as follows: 5 and 6 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted. [[See page 327]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e658	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 30 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Central Party 10 minutes, the Socialist Left 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes and Mr Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e665	The annual survey report on the work of the Nordic Council shows that Nordic cooperation is continuing along known paths. Cooperation has gained a stronger international profile since 1995, including: through cooperation in the neighbourhoods. Nordic cooperation is also an important channel today to promote Norwegian interests in the EU processes which, under the EEA Agreement, also have implications for Norway. Nordic cooperation also plays an important role in the Nordic harmonisation of EU legislation having legal effect for Norway. Cooperation within regional fora, the Arctic Council, the Baltic Sea Cooperation and the Barents Council, and cooperation on the northern dimension of the EU, also show that traditional Nordic cooperation within the Nordic Council has been extended to regions beyond the Nordic borders. This is expressed in the so-called ‘Viseman’s Report’ as follows: «While the old approach was to look primarily at Nordic cooperation as an exclusive cooperation in the Nordic region, the new approach is to see Nordic cooperation as an inclusive political instrument in the international arena.» The majority of the Committee agrees with the Government that internal Nordic cooperation must continue to be the fundamental and key element of cooperation in the Nordic region. There may be reason to call for caution in view of the fact that the extension of cooperation has partly been at the expense of the economic framework for cultural cooperation, such as: shall contribute to the development of Nordic identity and the strengthening of the Nordic region as a region of Europe. Although it is only five years since the adoption by the Nordic Council of the new reforms and the current organisational structure, there is a need for a review of this structure that calls for the greatest interest today. The report by the Panel on Wise Men, the ongoing review of the Council's strategic guidelines and the work on budgetary reform will undoubtedly shape the debate on the Nordic Council in the future. Among other things, these issues will be at the heart of the debate in the forthcoming Reykjavik Council next week. I will use the rest of my contribution to some assessments of the need for structural reforms in the Nordic Council. Over the last half of the 1990s, Nordic cooperation reviewed a comprehensive reform process. The objective was both to streamline and vitalise the Nordic Council and to adapt the work of the Council to the new framework set by the Nordic countries’ membership of the EU and the EEA respectively. The current organisational structure of the Nordic Council was adopted in 1995. In the preamble to the previous Nordic Cooperation Communication, the Committee expressed the view that the time had now come to evaluate the reform process and to discuss the experience of the new Council structure. Against this background, the Committee asked the Government, in the communication under consideration today, to assess the reforms and the new structure. The Committee also called for the experience of parliamentarians to be drawn up as part of the communication. Since January 1996, the geographically dependent column model, with its own sample sizes for the Nordic region, neighbourhoods and Europe respectively, has been the basis for the selection structure of the Nordic Council. The delegation says in its report that there are some problems related to the geographical breakdown of samples. ambiguity about how individual subject areas, including the environmental issues, belong to, have led to a certain degree of inter-sampling between the samples. The current system has also created uncertainties as to which Councils of Ministers are responsible for the various disciplines. Finally, it can be strongly argued that geographical selections have made it difficult to meet the desire for better anchoring in national parliaments. The delegation hires to replace the current sample model with a selection that can cover all three columns. The Government also confirms that the current sample structure poses some practical problems in relation to the Council of Ministers. The report of the Visa Panel proposes far-reaching changes to the Nordic cooperation structure. The panel has also concluded that the geographical pillar structure “is not sustainable in length”, as it is called. The ‘visitor panel’ is used to replace today’s organisation with a flexible ‘circle structure’, which can also be opened up to the neighbourhoods. Such a structure will enable the establishment of transparent and clear contact lines between the trade unions and the Council of Ministers. In addition, the Panel is committed to anchoring the work of the various expert committees in the respective national expert committees. It is premature to draw final conclusions on the recommendations launched by the Panel of Wise Men in its report. In my opinion, the panel points out some obvious weaknesses in today's Council structure and at the same time proposes solutions that are well worth studying. By investing in professional selections with a strong anchor in national parliaments and with clearly defined Councils of Ministers as counterparts, the Nordic Council will give greater political weight and become a more interesting venue for political activities. This will be further reinforced if the politicisation of the Council is continued and strengthened. A number of other proposals in the 'Viseman report' will also create a debate. I mention in short: proposals on Sami representation in the Nordic Council – a case that has been raised by the Norwegian side several years ago – the creation of ‘Margrete professorates’ on topics of Nordic relevance, and – perhaps somewhat surprising – common Nordic football and handballs that can meet teams from other regions of Europe. The last proposal obviously has great faith in the panel, since it is referred to as ‘a powerful manifestation of the popular anchoring of Nordic cooperation’! The Progress Party has chosen to withdraw from the joint comments on Nordic cooperation, comments by the other parties in the Stortinget. The party strongly doubts the value of the parliamentary contact established within the framework of the Nordic Council. However, a certain change in the attitude of the Progress Party to Nordic cooperation may be recorded. In the end of the previous year, the lot stated that ‘Nordic Council in its current form should be set down or reorganised’. In the setting Stortinget treats today, this clear message has been replaced by doubt about the value of this cooperation. We're excited about the continuation. In the setting-up of the proposed capital restocking in the Nordic Development Fund, the Progress Party is given the opportunity to accumulate its critical position on both the Nordic Council and Norwegian development aid – nor is it a big surprise. The Nordic Development Fund is a Nordic cooperation project aimed at promoting economic and social development in the poorest countries. The Fund provides favourable loans over 40 years of age, including: a 10-year non-deductible period. The Fund’s activities are concentrated in low-income countries. The last capital restocking took place in 1996. In the light of an independent evaluation of the Nordic Fund, a new extension of the basic own funds is now proposed. The proportion of Norway accounts for approx. 600 million. kr. The amount – and it is important to clarify – financed from the aid budget is planned to be paid in excess of seven years starting in 2003. I would recommend the recommendation from the committee to the decision in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e712	St.meld. No 30 for 1999-2000 is a communication not only on the Nordic Council, but on Nordic cooperation. And as a message of Nordic cooperation, it provides a thorough review of all the sectors and saws where there has been close and close cooperation between the Nordic countries of the year that went. [[Nybakk]] Not least, the communication shows the extent and extent of Nordic cooperation, a cooperation that is still deeply anchored in the majority of people. The Nordic region is not only a geographical area but is based on a Nordic community of values – also according to the notification. The most important thing we can contribute to our neighbourhood policy is the Nordic way of organising society, the social democratic welfare state, if you want, combined with a functioning market economy and a high degree of popular participation, with equality between women and men, a well-organised working life based on collective collective bargaining agreements, little or no corruption – or to say that with the latest report of the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council: ‘Nordic cooperation is essentially a matter of finding common solutions to common problems based on the Nordic community of values.’ Although internal Nordic will always be the basic and most important part of Nordic cooperation, the work of the Council of Ministers and not least of the Nordic Councils is characterised by increasing changes in our neighbourhoods and by the integration process in Europe. Our neighbourhoods have changed dramatically since the first ones went through the Wall exactly eleven years ago. We can only know what development will be like in the next eleven years. What we know is that the EU and Russia will be crucial suppliers of premises, both individually and jointly. With the accession of Poland and the Baltic States to the EU, the Baltic Sea becomes an EU resource, and the internal balance of power in the Union is shifting further north-east. It updates a debate on changes to the platform for Nordic cooperation. The Communication underlines the importance that Nordic cooperation now attaches to relations with neighbouring regions. The Nordic Council of Ministers demarcates the proximity of the Baltic region, North-West Russia, Kaliningrad and the Arctic region. The neighbourhood programme shall contribute to the strengthening of stability and security, the dissemination of the Nordic value community and the development of economic cooperation between the Nordic countries and their neighbourhoods. ==References== 20 pst. actions in the neighbourhoods of the common Nordic budget and the Nordic Council actively supports the northern dimension of the EU. Nowhere in the world marks a greater distinction in living standards than the borders between Russia and Norway and Russia and Finland. ‘Russia is different’, journalist Peter Normann Waage has said. When the Soviet Union went into disintegration, we thought that Russia would soon become like us; with a well-functioning market economy and a good civil society. It didn't happen. So the rubble knelt together, and poverty increased dramatically. We began to treat Russia as a developing country. But Russia is neither like us nor like an unland. For example, the population of North-West Russia is very well educated with a high level of competence in many areas. The problems in North-West Russia can be solved in the long term in active cooperation between Russia, the EU, EU partners in the EEA, Norway and Iceland, as well as the United States and Canada, the Barents region and areas covered by Arctic cooperation. A strong EU exposure in the Barents region is also desirable for security policy reasons in the broad sense. The deeper Russia is involved in European integration processes, the stronger the links between countries. Russia is therefore at the heart of the development of a northern dimension in the EU. As the rapporteur has explained in detail, a wide-ranging ‘visitor panel’ has presented a report that outlines the requirements for Nordic cooperation, both in terms of political content and geographical demarcation. The report shall be presented at the Nordic Council session in Reykjavik in a few days’ time. The debate will focus on how to organise parliamentary cooperation in the Nordic region. The 'Viseman's Panel's report is based on ten trends, from globalisation and integration in Europe to democracy and the environment, as a framework for future parliamentary cooperation. And that's what we want. The Panel considers that there is a need for a comprehensive reorientation of the Nordic cooperation structure. The ‘visitor panel’ does not outline any final solution, but believes that we need to strengthen the professional committees better than today. The question is whether the structure of the Council of Ministers should be reduced today and whether we should instead base our cooperation on individual parliamentary committees. The Nordic Council is still a meeting place and a forum worth caring for. However, the Council must set the agenda in a clearer way than today, be more focused on its work and perhaps most importantly: the work of the Nordic Council must be anchored to a much, much greater extent in the work of the national parliaments. I myself have had the advantage of being both a member of the Nordic Council of Europe Committee and a member of the EEA Committee. What I have been able to record more and more is that, for example. European interests are not always unambiguously parallel in the Nordic region. Norway and Iceland are the only Nordic countries. The other three become a kind of Nordic plus – as EU members. Five years have passed since the last Nordic Council changed the organisational structure – as underlined by the case-rapporteur – in order to adapt to the new realities represented by the major changes in our neighbourhoods and the entry of Sweden and Finland into the EU. It is not certain that the model that was chosen was the most successful. Among other things, there is a great deal of overlap and confusion between the European Commission and the Subcommittee. Europe today is characterised by an increasing degree of regionalisation. The organisation of the Nordic Council has become dependent on and requires changes as a result of these developments. The Council of Ministers has found its structure in many ways. Cooperation at ministerial level works quickly and efficiently and follows the disciplines. The challenge for us, as parliamentarians, will be to find a similar pattern of cooperation, with a better match for ministers' fields of work, a cooperation which is also better anchored in the committee structure of national parliaments, and which does not least oblige the committees any more. This is a shared responsibility for all of us. The debate starts in Reykjavik, but of course it must continue here in the Stortinget and in the other parliaments. With the new global and European developments, we should be aware that the Nordic countries need not only close cooperation, but also – as I said at the outset – can communicate to our neighbourhoods the Nordic model of society. History has shown us that the prerequisite for a modern prosperity society is precisely the combination of private business development, economic driving rules, social security and soft values, that is. and welfare state. This is the northern, or perhaps the Nordic, dimension of politics: an important export product, where our foreign policy becomes relevant to most people, to a meaningful everyday life and to a rich life.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e751	Let me first say a few words about the capital add-on in the Nordic Development Fund. As it turned out here, it's not really a loan it's about, it's essentially gifts. For 40 years, the loan will run. The first ten years, it's non-deductible, and it's free of interest. What's a little interesting is what to do with these gifts: promote equality between men and women through gifts from a Nordic fund. It might have been interesting to know how to do this with some kind of predictable effect. Other prerequisites for these gifts are the prevention of corruption and the promotion of a good governance. But if it's something I'm convinced of, it's not something that's as corrupt-promoting as supplying land with gifts, because these gifts are no remuneration for the production of businesses. If you live off your job by producing, you get paid, and you can buy new raw materials, hire new people and produce further. It's not going to be corrupt. But when the money comes flowing from the outside – and in some way they have to go about official channels, and it is, of course, absolutely impossible to keep track of where this money is going – and when you know from experience that there is an enormous amount of corruption in such countries, you can predict that there will be major corruption leaks. So I think it's quite strange that, by means of anti-corruption measures, anti-corruption measures. I believe that this type of intervention in natural life in developing countries is just promoting corruption. I think this is a very realistic consideration, which perhaps a strong idealist assembly has difficulty joining. This is also one of the reasons why we are going against this capital restocking. So to Nordic cooperation, especially at parliamentary level. I would like to make it clear that the Progress Party is a strong supporter of Nordic cooperation by companies exchanging goods and services, by private organisations working together and by governments also working together to find good solutions, reaping from each other's experiences and perhaps above all finding common legislation where possible. All of this is a matter of the Advance Party. But we have little faith in parliamentary cooperation, as we have expressed several times, and if I did not hear wrong, the case-rapporteur also said that the Nordic Council was not an interesting venue for political activity, and I agree with him very much. I am not quite sure if he hears what I am saying now, so this will well be undisputed. Otherwise, I do not have so many comments, except for a little to the representative Marit Nybakk, who spoke about Russia. I think it's part of the picture when we talk about Russia today, that they're building new nuclear submarines to replace those that're rusting up at the quay up north. They are increasing their defence budget quite strongly. They wage a war in Chechnya and infiltrate as best they can in the old Soviet republics of Central Asia. The extent to which this qualifies for our assistance should be carefully considered. Otherwise, I would just like to refer to the comment of the Progress Party on page 10 in the vote on the Nordic Council, and I have already stated the main content of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e764	Nordic cooperation spans a variety of themes. All these issues are duly addressed in the proposal and were also thoroughly reviewed by the dossier rapporteur. The Nordic Council has changed its character both in terms of forms of cooperation and thematically. A concrete expression of this is the reorganisation that the Nordic Council has undergone in recent years, among other things. in the 1995 reform. The activities of the Nordic Council need to be increasingly assessed and seen in conjunction with other organisations and councils, such as the Barents Council, the Arctic Council and the Baltic Council. Together, this network of different Councils and organisations represents important cross-policy and regional cooperation opportunities of great importance for different issues related to our neighbourhoods. The government underlines that, despite differences in the anchoring of the Nordic countries in relation to the EU and NATO, foreign policy cooperation operates both closely and well in the Nordic region. This means that the Nordic countries have a wide range of common areas of interest which make it natural to seek cooperation in different areas from security policy to education and culture cooperation. I would like to follow the rapporteur's approach and emphasis on future forms of cooperation and the necessary organisational changes and structures that need to be implemented in this respect. Despite the fact that the current structure of the Nordic Council is only five years old, there has already been a need to critically review changes and improvements in order to better adapt to the current political cooperation tasks. Of course, there is particular interest in the work presented by the ‘Viseman Panel’ in the report ‘Nordic 2000 — Open to the World’. Head of the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council, Berit Brørby, comments on this report in a chronicle in the Newspaper today, and she is very active. If the proposal of the Wise Men Panel is fully followed up, it means the closure of the Nordic Council. It doesn't have to be a loss if what comes instead gets better. Based on closer studies of ten different trends that could affect Nordic cooperation, the «Viseman Panel» proposes to replace the current selection structure with what is called a circular structure, which allows for more coherent Nordic cooperation. That sounds promising. The ‘visa panel’ describes cooperation more as a kind of umbrella with the five Nordic countries as a nucleus. The size of the umbrella may then vary from the core area to that of Russia and the Arctic region of North America, depending on the themes of cooperation on the agenda. It is the strong global development that makes such a strategy necessary and appropriate, the panel believes. I agree, for my part, with Berit Brørby when she stresses the need to draw up a boundary in Nordic cooperation or to find a balance between the attention that we still have to give to the traditional Nordic issues on the one hand and the new issues relating to, for example, globalisation, technological development, European integration, democracy and the environment on the other hand. It is obvious that there are many Nordics who have been and are concerned about the restructuring in the Nordic Council which would weaken genuine Nordic cooperation, and the proposals of the ‘Visemann Panel’ could probably help to raise this concern. I don't think it's going to come from the fact that the extent of pure cultural cooperation in the Nordic context has been significantly reduced. I agree with the Government that future cultural cooperation can only be maintained at a satisfactory level if new funds are added to Nordic cooperation. It is a challenge and a task not only for the Council of Ministers, but also for the Nordic Council. Cultural cooperation represents a key pillar of Nordic cooperation. This is where the concrete people-to-people cooperation is best expressed. Disappearing this contact with the Nordic country's popular cultural cooperation will also be an essential prerequisite for developing Nordic cooperation in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e787	There is every reason, on behalf of the Nordic democracies and parliamentary systems, to be proud of what has been achieved through Nordic cooperation. Practical political cooperation between countries and, in particular, between governments has led the EU in a number of ways. But that time is over. Now the EU is leading the way, both in depth and in breadth. It recognises and works actively for three of the Nordic countries, so it is a member of the EU. I also think there is reason to point out that there is something more than just a question of structures and committee tasks that is the problem at the Nordic Council today. The problem is the fact that political attention has changed in other directions. The policy challenges are stronger both in relation to the EU, for EU members, and in relation to regional cooperation, for example: for the whole Baltic Sea region, for the Barents and vis-à-vis the Baltic countries. It's probably right to say that Nordic cooperation is at a crossroads. The fact that there is an intensive debate on new structures only five years after the last structure was established – and five years are in a very short parliamentary context – shows that Nordic cooperation is in a kind of crisis, a crisis consisting of a lack of political support, a lack of political attention and a lack of practical policy challenges in the coming years. I think there are two main ways to go. One is to recognise that the Nordic region is gradually too narrow to meet the development challenges facing the region. The Conservative Group of the Nordic Council has proposed that the Baltic countries become members of an enlarged Nordic Council. I recognise that I want to be a different Nordic Council from what we have today. I am not going to distract the House with practical problems of the type of interpretation and the like – there are other major assemblies that have well solved in possible ways – but it is clear that this would be a cooperation that essentially aims to contribute to the development of the region vis-à-vis the Baltic countries and involve them in a kind of Nordic welfare and economic model. Interests in this among the Baltic countries are varying, but obviously present. The question to be asked is whether this interest will continue even after the Baltic countries have all become fully-fledged members of the EU. But it could be a few years to come – and it's just a challenge in itself. The other way to go is the one referred to by the «Visammann Panel», and I agree with the representative of Brørby, former President of the Nordic Council, who characterises this as a radical shift in the Nordic cooperation structure. In reality, it does mean a dissolution of the permanent parliamentary structure, but a conversion to what is referred to here as a circular structure in which the cooperation between professional committees in the parliaments is as far as it is concerned, and as far as appropriate. But then attention will depend on the presence of a majority of parliaments at all times. I also think this model is interesting, and I would at least say in conclusion that I am open to the radical proposals that are on the table, whether these are the radical proposals of the conservative group, or it is going another way, which the ‘Visemans Panel’ points to. I think both ways give rise to new and interesting political challenges. Obviously, the Baltic-Nordic model is the most demanding of the two. Let me give an example of what is going on about interesting things, but which are facing real-world political problems — and as a reference to the Norwegian debate on gas power plants and CO2 quotas. There is now an interesting work going on between governments to explore a system of tradable quotas between Nordic countries. It was originally a proposal by the parliamentarian, but it is replaced by a work that also includes the Baltic Sea region. And that's interesting, because in many ways it turns out that the practical policy challenges we're facing, in this case the greenhouse gas problems, not only are Nordic, in a region that eventually includes several industrialised and well-developed countries. I'm just taking a positive look at this, because I think a quota system in the Baltic region is as interesting as just a Nordic system. However, I note that some Nordic countries — some south of Norway — have a minimal interest in realising such thoughts, and are still at the end of the class in the EU. It's not a question of a government that has resigned from the same party as the Norwegian, but the difference in attitude is very much the same.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e804	It is not difficult to agree with very much of what has been said about Nordic cooperation. If we are to draw a conclusion from what I experience as weaknesses in Nordic cooperation, it is that cooperation is not sufficiently political. This means that if we do not manage to politicise the Nordic Council – that is, that the policy is perceived as the most important thing, not the cooperation itself – the Nordic Council will fall asleep without interest from either the politicians, the media or, for that matter, the citizens of the Nordic countries. In that case, it won't be a tragedy if this was a development. Our – our group’s – hope, however, is that this will not be developed. The reform process completed in 1995 has proved to be a major failure in many ways. In particular, the way in which the various selections or committees were divided failed, i.e. in the neighbourhoods, the Nordic countries and Europe. It turned out not to reflect an actual need in the various parliaments, nor in the citizens of the Nordic countries. What turned out to be successful, however, was a greater degree of party cooperation between the different Nordic countries. We have in the Nordic region, unlike many other regions in the world, a relatively equal party structure that makes political cooperation in the Nordic Council work well. But at the same time, it does not work well within the framework of the Nordic Council. This means that many of the debates held at the Nordic Council are held in areas where there is really no political disagreement – such as spending 4 or 5 million. kr on a project, while everyone basically thinks the project is okay. What is needed to a large extent is to vitalise the Nordic Council as a political body. Of course, this is a major challenge, and the main challenge here lies in the different forms of association chosen by the different Nordic countries both to NATO and to the EU. The Nordic Council therefore needs to continue on the course which has been started in part, namely to discuss controversial areas. It is a paradox that the representative Per-Kristian Foss and I often disagree in this Chamber, but when we come to the Nordic Council, we often agree. This shows that the Nordic Council does not reflect the actual political contradictions that exist in the Nordic region, and that should not be an objective. It is not an objective that the representative Foss disagrees – not at all – but it is an objective that the Nordic Council reflects the actual political contradictions that exist in the Nordic people and in Nordic cooperation. Much of what the Nordic Council does is undoubtedly positive. All the cooperation related to Barents' cooperation, Arctic cooperation, Baltic Sea cooperation, to Western Norse cooperation is positive. Cultural cooperation is positive. It is clear that Nordic cooperation is anchored in addition to the Nordic Council, and it is in itself valuable to take care of. However, the reality is that if you don't manage to politicize the cooperation to a greater extent, it will fall asleep. This means that the Nordic Council must address various issues that the Nordic Council has so far not addressed. For our group in the Nordic Council, it has always been an objective to go in such a direction. When the Nordic Council began to discuss security policy, the Nordic Council immediately became more interested. The first time the Nordic Council discussed such questions was at the large conference held in Helsinki a few years ago. It was in itself a vitalization of the Nordic Council. After a lot of fighting and after a lot of resistance, the majority of the Nordic Council actually thought it was right that security policy and defence cooperation became part of the Nordic Council. In the past, that kind of question, i.e. foreign policy issues, was not addressed. Now, for example: biotechnology is widely addressed. Social dumping and tax dumping issues may also be issues that can be addressed in the Nordic context, where the Nordic region represents a relatively egalitarian island in relation to many developments on the continent. The ‘visitor panel’ report has been affected by several factors and is necessary and important. It is necessary and important simply because the Nordic region – and we see it very well from the Nordic Council – is not at the centre of the world. This means that we need to see what trends and trends the Nordic countries and the citizens of the Nordic countries will face, and to what extent we choose to organise them. Once again, the core of this whole report and of what is suggested as different trends in the future is that if the Nordic Council does not become a political body, it will wither away. It does not help us to see that there is an globalisation trend or a technological trend out there unless the Nordic Council is more able to address what this cooperation is actually about. I believe that the «Vismann Panel» report can trigger a major and more interesting debate on the Nordic Council. I also hope that this will lead the Nordic Council Committee structure to reflect more fully the actual political needs of the various parliaments and not least of the Nordics than the current division. I also hope that it will mean more politicisation of the Nordic Council, which will put more emphasis on party political cooperation and confrontation, which is actually essential for the vitalisation of all policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e823	The practical outcome of Nordic cooperation in addition to Nordic understanding can often be a long way off, especially if one tries to deal with controversial issues. The more happy it is when you see the contours of success. For a number of years, in an interaction with the Stortinget, we have tried to move forward in the creation of a common environmental picture as the basis for the decisions to be made in the Nordic countries' parliaments, a so-called Nordic environmental account. Furthermore, we have worked for a common system of pricing environmental costs in electricity production. It is a necessary step to prevent environmental dumping in the Nordic electricity market, which the representative Foss has also commented on. Both of these strategies were last anchored in Storting's treatment of the energy message in ours. The Nordic parliamentarians have also repeatedly given their approval. The problem has been the necessary attention and progress on the part of the Council of Ministers. A main reason for this can be the current lack of coordination of organisational forms between the Nordic Council and the Council of Ministers. Nevertheless, when we are now in the process of setting up a Nordic environmental accounting and a pilot project for electricity trading where environmental costs are to be included in the market price, it is gratifying to read in this context the ‘Visemann Panel’ report on future Nordic cooperation. One of the main conclusions of the report is that there is also a need for a comprehensive redesign of the Nordic cooperation structure. An important proposal in this context is that the Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council should have parallel organisations, so that parliamentarians can clearly see which Council of Ministers is responsible for the forthcoming selections. This has been a problem with today's organisation. The Council has taken a number of initiatives, but the follow-up, the interaction with the Council of Ministers, has too often been unsatisfactory. We simply need to improve practical cooperation. The 'visitor' panel report will be presented for discussion at the Nordic Council session on Iceland next week. The most important thing now is to start the discussion about the content of Nordic cooperation, and what issues we are going to deal with. But it is equally important to put in place a structure that gives us the best possible results. The role of political groupings must also be further strengthened. The anchoring, the interaction with the parliaments of the Nordic countries, needs to be improved. I perceive the input of the ‘Visher Panel’ as a constructive contribution in this context. So a little bit about the environment and cooperation in the Arctic region. Nordic cooperation on environmental problems in neighbourhoods is a high priority in all Nordic countries. Arctic Council is the only regional cooperation body covering all eight Arctic countries. It is therefore an important forum to address environmental problems in the Arctic and to reduce the environmental impact of increased economic activity in the region. In August of this year, the Arctic Council organised the fourth conference of parliamentarians from the Arctic region of Rovaniemi, Finland. In my speech, I stressed the environmental situation and suggested that Arctic cooperation in the environmental field should be presented as a regional cooperation at the UN follow-up conference after Rio, which takes place in two years' time. In support of this, I referred to the work initiated by the Nordic Prime Ministers in 1998 on a sustainable Nordic region, which will be the subject of an environmental conference here in Stortinget, under the direction of the Nordic Council, in April next year. Norway shall be the host country of the fifth Arctic Parliamentary Conference to take place in Tromsø in August 2002. Norway’s contribution to sustainable development in the Arctic region should be further reinforced.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e842	The time I have served as a Nordic Cooperation Minister has been interesting and exciting for me. It's strange about that, when a sudden involvement in Nordic cooperation is underway, a greater interest in it and sees in and separates the need for this work in a completely different way than when one is outside. In relation to the approaches that the representative, Mr. Djupedal, had, some of what we want as a need for greater political commitment may well be that we are not able to create the political debate around all the important issues that are constantly shaping Nordic cooperation. But although I think it is exciting and interesting, I also see that there is a lack of some of the political dynamics that are needed to make good progress in the matters that we are dealing with, including in the Councils of Ministers, so I agree with the majority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs who believe that the time has come for a biased review of the Nordic Council's organisation in order to capture new needs and adapt the Council's work to changing framework conditions. But this must also apply to the Nordic Council of Ministers. I also see a very great need for a review of and also a prejudiced discussion about the Council of Ministers is of such a nature, such an organization, such a structure that it is adapted to the reality of the day. And what we must at least be prepared for is that, through the various organisational bodies of the Nordic Council of Ministers and the Nordic Council of Ministers, we also find common meeting places for how we will set up future cooperation. It will, as I see it, be very unfortunate if we do not manage to coordinate the work of the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers for the future organisation that we feel we need. Because it is the case that every living organisation requires some care and some care, and that is why the cooperation ministers have taken the initiative for all the important analyses and investigations that have been carried out and that will shape the debate on Nordic cooperation in the coming years. The visor panel has chosen a word by Piet Hein as the title of its report: «Open to the World’s Winds». It's the panel's starting point that the Nordic landscape and Nordic values lie there, open to the challenges and opportunities that the world's winners represent, and it's up to us to take the challenge and try to do something about it both in relation to internal Nordic cooperation and also to the extent that the Nordics are going to be involved in influencing the world around us, whether it's Europe or other parts of the world. The strength of what we can get is also dependent on our being able to get common Nordic 'driving' and that we can act as collectively as possible. With this in mind, the panel has given us an exciting and challenging report, with proposals that are far-reaching and that can have a major impact on the agenda and forms of work of Nordic cooperation, but with the clear objective of maintaining and strengthening the Nordic community in global reality. The ‘visa panel’ report was only available three weeks ago and it is far too early to have a certain opinion on the individual proposals. The report will be discussed at the Reykjavik session, and I believe that a fundamental discussion, without having to decide on what to do, can be useful, and especially for the cooperation ministers, it will be useful to listen to that debate before we go to the next round and look at how to develop the Nordic Council of Ministers to address the challenges proposed by the ‘Visher Panel’. I expect that in any case, we will have to find a way of working further on the report in – national and Nordic – which enables us to find a form of cooperation between the Nordic Council and the Nordic Council of Ministers, and in particular between the government representatives in the Councils of Ministers and the Norwegian delegation to the Nordic Council. Another report that will help shape future Nordic cooperation is about our neighbourhood strategy. This report will also be discussed at the session and, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, we intend to present it to the Council as a proposal by the Council of Ministers. I have noticed that the majority of the Committee on Foreign Affairs presupposes that the enlargement of the EU and the membership of the Baltic countries in the Union means that the Nordic neighbourhood policy will have to change. In this respect, I can inform you that the cooperation ministers have discussed this with their Baltic colleagues, the Baltic Foreign Ministers. In them, it was fully acceptable that the centre of gravity of the Nordic neighbourhood activities be gradually shifted towards North-West Russia as a consequence of the Baltics' entry into the European Community. I would also like to mention a third element in reforming Nordic cooperation. This is the Secretary-General's proposal for budgetary reform. There is a consultation process here, and we aim to present the proposals to the Nordic Council once the consultation process has been completed and we have had the opportunity to draw the conclusions. The reform package undoubtedly contains many sensible proposals which will help to make the budget more transparent and a better tool for us politicians. But other proposals are more controversial and more questionable and will probably not be fully carried forward. Perhaps the most challenging thing is the funding of the Nordic institutions. All in all, I think we are facing an exciting and challenging debate on Nordic cooperation in the future, perhaps more exciting than it has been in many years. We shouldn't spend too much time until we conclude. On the other hand, we need to take sufficient time to deal properly with issues that will shape Nordic cooperation for many years to come. Especially for Norway, as a country not participating in the European Community, Nordic cooperation will be very important. The Foreign Affairs Committee has also noted another major and important issue that will be addressed in the Nordic region in the coming months – the 20-year strategy for sustainable development – a new course for the Nordic region. We now have a proposal to be examined by the Environment Ministers and by the Cooperation Ministers during the month of November. The strategy will then be forwarded to the Nordic Council, which will invite you to a thematic conference on the strategy here in Oslo on 2 and 3 April next year. Six key sectors are covered by the strategy: energy, transport, agriculture, industry, fisheries and forestry. In addition, it focuses on cross-sectoral areas such as climate change, biodiversity, genetic resources, the natural and cultural environment, the sea, chemicals and food security. Anyone who says that there are not enough problem areas to discuss and address the Nordic cooperation should study the report on sustainable development – a new course for the Nordic region. There's a lot of work to do if we want to. There are questions about will if we're going to succeed. For Norway, Nordic cooperation, consultation and exchange of information on EU and EEA issues are invaluable. Such questions naturally take place on any Nordic agenda, both when the ministers of state and foreign affairs meet, and in all sectors within the Nordic Council of Ministers. The aim of this work is to ensure the attention of the EU to Nordic values and priorities and to ensure that all Nordic countries are aware of the specific needs and wishes of each Nordic country on EU issues. One important aspect of this work is to preserve Nordic legal equality. Therefore, Nordic cooperation on the national implementation of EU directives is of great importance. Nordic cooperation on European issues has gradually grown considerably. In this respect, I would like to refer to the report on the EU/EEA activities of the Council of Ministers which we have sent to the Council for consideration at the Reykjavik session. There is good reason to assume that the benefits of this work will be even greater in the years to come. With an increasing number of EU members, the need to coordinate the EU policies of the Nordic countries increases and is in Norwegian interest. It will therefore continue to be an objective for the Nordic countries to agree as far as possible on a common EU policy and joint action on important issues. It will continue to be important for Nordic countries to coordinate the implementation of important directives. And it is important that we jointly contribute to concreteising the northern dimension, primarily with a commitment to democratic development and environmental commitment in Russia. I think so far there has been a good debate on the big message of Nordic cooperation, and I look forward to attending the Council session in Reykjavik next week.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e894	I also thought that Nordic cooperation was largely Canadian, but I have experienced the Nordic cooperation as very exciting. Getting personally in contact with politicians in the other Nordic countries is important to my political everyday life in my own Parliament. I consider this contact to be extremely important, whether it does not in itself contribute to so many policy results and decisions. But the world is also governed by sympathy and antipathies between friendly neighbouring countries. I believe in the Nordic Council as a political tool, a regional political tool, and it is incredibly important to maintain these Nordic common values. Here I would like to point out that I think maybe that women's questions have come a little bit into the shadow lately. Drawing this out again I think actually will be an important renewal and a freshening of the Nordic values. I believe that increased efforts on women and on gender and gender equality issues and activities and actions around them will make a significant contribution to the renewal of Nordic cooperation. It will also make a significant contribution to the cooperation we have with and against our neighbourhoods. We have a tradition in the North of a state that is women-friendly and child-friendly. There is much we can contribute to other countries, which are now rebuilding their state apparatus. I also think that when it comes to how we deal with Nordic issues, it's crucial how we work in our own parties. It may be useful for each one to take a round of seas as to how much legitimacy one has in one's own party and in one's own parliament when travelling to the meetings of the Nordic Council. I think that might be the prerequisite for there to be a political force in Nordic cooperation as well. It is also a prerequisite for the media to take an interest in this. But one of the main challenges in creating engagement around Nordic issues is that the population is also more involved in Nordic issues, that it concerns people. Especially against the growing family, we have a great job to do in terms of concreteizing Nordic cooperation. I believe in a regional democratically governed entity such as the Nordic Council. I think it has a big problem to fill. I think women's questions should get better space. I have experienced the experience of driving women in the Nordic Council, and was very surprised at how much they were popular in the Nordic Council context. This I want us to be better at. With regard to the development of the neighbourhoods, we also have a very important task in terms of coordinating our work against them. There I would particularly like to refer to what has been done, for example. towards north-west Russia. It is of great importance to the region from which I come. Nordic cooperation shows that one can produce results and that it is important. I think being a Nordic might be a little bit too unfamiliar to most people in Norway. I think it is very important that we have a conscious media strategy on the part of Nordic cooperation, that we find that it is something other than canapes, that we not least get the communication between parliamentarians – what we are told about each other. I think there's a great need for knowledge about each other, despite the fact that we have almost the same language and we think we know so much. I therefore believe that the Nordic Council should be committed to whitewashing its ideals on gender equality issues, and I think we should bet on young people and the growing up family.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e915	The rapporteur has presented the broad majority's views on the Nordic Council and Nordic cooperation in an excellent way, a cooperation with a wide range of people and spanning a wide range of issues, including: cooperation in the EU. The Committee has highlighted in particular the important task of Norway in strengthening the contacts and impact possibilities of Nordic cooperation. The exchange of information between the Nordic countries on EU and EEA issues is of ‘valuable importance’, said Kosmo State Council in its statement. I agree. For Norway, it is essential: Following the referendum on the EU in 1994, and after it was clear that Norway chose a different relationship with the EU from Sweden, Denmark and Finland, there were many speculations about its consequences for Nordic cooperation. One of the predictions was natural enough that Nordic cooperation would move to EU bodies, and that Norway was at risk of being sidelined in Nordic cooperation as well. Six years later, it appears that Finland, Denmark and Sweden have chosen completely different ways of exploiting EU membership. From its position outside the European Union, Norway has chosen to adapt to the EU as much as its Member States. We're just different in that way that we're outside the bodies where the decisions are made. So soon after the Finnish presidential visit, I have to highlight how impressive Finland's position in European cooperation has been. Finland has become a very central player in European cooperation. The evening post expressed it well in a president on 27 October: ‘Finland will be viewed and presented as a European guide for the rest of the Nordic region’. The evening post also had another good point, namely that Finland has never itself sought to be a ‘model’ or a ‘sparing point’ in the international arena, as opposed to, for example, Norway. Here, Norway has a lot to learn from Finland, because while Finland has made some assessments of Finland’s own interests, Norway’s foreign policy strategies have become increasingly ambitious and, in the opinion of the Right, are increasingly fragmented. However, although the conclusion six years after the northern enlargement of the EU is that the Nordic countries are not a bloc, Nordic cooperation is continuing. It has, however, changed. The most important development is that less and less Nordic cooperation remains genuine Nordic. By reading the Communication, we can see how other cooperation forums — in particular the EU — set the agenda in the field of regional policy. Nordic cooperation is becoming a department of greater European cooperation. In more and more areas, the EU has a stronger coordinating role than the Nordic countries, including in areas related to our neighbourhoods. This concerns the development of cooperation with the Baltic countries and with Russia. The northern dimension of the EU is already the main framework for the creation of stable and well-developed democracies in northern Europe. Of course, it will only become stronger when the Baltic countries gradually become members of the EU. The North European Initiative of the United States will be another important framework for cooperation to strengthen economic and democratic development in the north. Just because Nordic cooperation has become part of European cooperation in many areas, Right considers Nordic cooperation to be very important for Norway. Nordic cooperation is a channel for promoting Norwegian interests and views towards countries that are members of the EU and have an influence on the decisions taken there. The radical changes in Nordic cooperation to be discussed during the Nordic Council in a few days' time will, in the opinion of the Right, strengthen Nordic coordination and cooperation. But the reforms that are on the steps of the Nordic Council are really just an expression of what the Right has always seen: that other bodies set the agenda. Our aim is that Norway should also be involved in the most important cooperation in the Nordic countries and in Europe, namely the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e942	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e945	I took the word just to comment very briefly on the capital add-on in the Nordic Development Fund, because that is no small matter. It's 600 million. Norwegian krone over a four-year period. I think it is worth noting that the conclusion of the independent evaluation of the Nordic Development Fund initiated by the Council of Ministers is that the fund has shown good cost-effectiveness and quality of its activities. This has probably contributed to the existence of the capital restocking proposal. That Norway will contribute, I think is very positive. I have also noticed that the Nordic Development Fund continues, as it says, ‘to base a poverty-oriented lending strategy as the overall objective of the enterprise’. What made me want to make a comment before the president's club falls is that this evaluation at the same time highlights the fund's great Nordic benefit. Then I'm going to bounce a little bit. This term ‘Nordic benefit’ could indicate a strong commitment to Nordic interests, not to mention Nordic industrial interests. I'm assuming that's not the case. In the government’s proposal, there is a definition of Nordic interest, namely ‘interest from at least two of the Nordic countries’. But why this interest is aroused in the two Nordic countries, there is no mention of it. I would just like to emphasise that I base the overall objectives of the business, which have also been included in the position, namely to promote environmental and sustainable development, to promote equality between men and women, to involve the public in the countries of cooperation concerned, to take account of human rights, and, finally, to prevent corruption and to promote good governance. On that basis, I believe that the Nordic Development Fund has a good purpose and a good arrangement for its borrowing operations, and that the Nordic interests and benefits mentioned here must be subject to the more general objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e956	In the end, just a small comment: there were questions about the identity of the representatives of the Stortinget who are members of the Nordic Council. Now we are discussing what has taken place at the Nordic Council in the year that has passed, and of the 20 representatives who spend their time doing this, it is probably at a height of five that is present in the Chamber. I think that very well illustrates the interest that this work actually has.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e961	In conclusion, just a short line to the comment of the representative Steensnæs. With regard to the use of this fund in a Nordic perspective, on behalf of the Government, I would like to stress that it is very important in terms of aid instruments that we have such a Nordic instrument, not least in order to promote increased coordination between the Nordic countries in terms of development aid. Moreover, it is important that in this context, too, we continue to work for the common objectives of decoupling assistance in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e970	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5 and 6. [[Footing, see next page]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e983	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e990	During the debate, Mr Rugtvedt tabled two proposals on behalf of the Socialist Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to work towards the first use of nuclear weapons as a military option by NATO.’ 2 reads: ‘The Government requests the submission of an independent legal opinion assessing whether the use of NATO military forces outside the territory of the Alliance, as opened in NATO’s strategic concept, is in line with the United Nations Charter’s demands for the use of military power.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31.ana.ud251e1064	The progress party has announced that they will vote against the setting.
