ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e24	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there should be no repetition of the individual statements, and that those who have to subscribe to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e33	The animal law, with the proposed amendments to this matter, has an extended scope. The main aim is to avoid the production of food which could pose a risk to public health. In this respect, the amendment of the law helps to ensure that Norwegian food products are safe food, which is an overall objective for Norwegian food production. The law is extended so as to allow measures to be taken against infectious agents in animals which do not necessarily make the animals sick but present a risk to humans. Similarly, the law is extended in order to prevent animals with a presence of foreign substances in the body from being used in the production of food. The legislative proposal shall also provide for the establishment of internal control procedures in the various establishments. Now a large proportion of agricultural production units are already in a quality assurance programme, and these will already have met the requirements that you expect to meet as a result of the amendment of the law. Again, this underlines that the industry itself is very interested in producing food with as much certainty as possible. The amendment also allows fees to be charged for services performed by or for the public sector. This may apply to a number of services, including: also veterinary checks on imports and exports of animals or products. By being able to charge a fee now, it will mean major administrative simplifications and the Ministry's proposals also harmonize with developments in EEA legislation. Section 11 of the Livestock Act gives the owner the right to compensation for animals that are killed and for the implementation of measures to eliminate possible contaminants. The compensation shall be determined by judgement and maximum rates of compensation have been practised from the summer onwards. The law will now open up standard rates that a rainer will follow today's maximum rates. This system will lead to less bureaucracy and less expenditure, with judgement and disputes largely falling away. There is also reason to mention that legislative changes will result in Norway fulfilling its obligations under the EEA Agreement and the WTO Agreement when compensation for imported animals is equated with that for Norwegian-born animals. The majority of the Committee considers it appropriate that the levying of fees on feed should apply not only to dogs and cats but also to other pet animals. The fees shall, as before, finance certain health-prevention measures in relation to pet animals, but they shall also be eligible for the veterinary watch regime applicable to such animals. Provision is made for pet animals to be served both by the ordinary clinical watch and by a special watch. The regular clinical watch shall in some ways be a primary health service also for pets and sports animals. Most disease situations will be dealt with here. In some cases, the local guard will need to call the specialist guard for advice, possibly for further referral to specialists. The Norwegian Veterinary Association and the Animal Health Authority are working to get such a specialist watch in place. This also means that clinics to be included in a specialist watch regime must have personnel and equipment suitable for dealing with cases referred to in pet animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e56	The Party shall agree to comments and proposals for decisions included in the suspension, with one exception, and shall provide for the possibility to extend the fee base to include the levy on feed for pet animals other than dogs and cats. In this respect, we will refer to the comments of the Progress Party at the Innst. S. No 235 for 1999-2000 on the veterinary watch services, which were dealt with in June this year. We then went against the fact that the specialist guard was to be financed by an increased charge on pet food. It was also stated that we did not agree to an extension to new areas. When the tax is now proposed to be extended, it seems to shift more and more towards a fiscal charge. The principle is that the user should pay more for the veterinary services provided in this context. We would also like to remind you that the Progress Party during the treatment of St.prp. No 54 for 1999-2000 on, inter alia: new veterinary watch regimes added a significantly higher amount to this than the other batches and were in line with the view of the Veterinary Association of satisfactory arrangements. There was no doubt that the financial framework put at the disposal, where the current redundancies would be replaced by three different watch arrangements, would be too low in relation to the objectives to be achieved. With the reason I have mentioned, we will therefore oppose the first paragraph of Section 16a. Otherwise, we will vote in favour of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e67	SV will support the setting, except at one point, and it is equal to the replacement of imported and Norwegian-born animals. My prediction is that if the Council of State were to present the corresponding law today, this paragraph would not have been included. The Council of State has now abandoned and announced strong measures for increased protection against infectious diseases, and the EU has done the same. Therefore, the timing of introducing such a provision as the one we are invited to adopt today could in some way not be worse. What we're doing is we're reducing the financial risk for those who take chances and risks on behalf of all of us by importing animals. It is in the proposal and in the setting reference to the prohibition of quantitative restrictions on imports or measures having equivalent effect in the EEA Agreement. That's probably right. However, when the EU sails in a way that is absolutely desperate to look for new instruments that can improve the infection situation, so that they can gain some control of the environment and other things that give rise to increased risk of infection, I strongly doubt that this is a paragraph on which Norway would be particularly hit in the near future. On the contrary, I am sure that both the EU and Norway will gradually come to the conclusion that more stringent rules are also needed on a permanent basis, and not just as a sort of panic operation when it is at its worst. It is stated in the proposition that any trade may pose an international or national risk of infection. Replacement is an important instrument in disease control because animal owners are stimulated to report on suspicion of disease. It's also an important incentive to have to bear an economic risk if it turns out that you have imported animals that have a disease. SV will therefore vote against the repeal of the second and third sentences of the second paragraph of Section 11. Otherwise, we support the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e78	In recent years, Europe has experienced several food scandals, or rather feed scandals. It is enough to mention the case of dioxins and BSE, which is now leading the EU and Norway to further intensify their action. It is a clear objective of the Government that food should be safe and that consumers should feel safe. A prerequisite for achieving this objective is that the measures have been coordinated throughout the ‘earth and fjord to table’ chain. In order for the public to be able to impose the necessary measures, we need to have the necessary legal basis. One of the main elements of the legislative proposal that the Government is now promoting in this proposition is that we propose the scope of the Animal Health Act extended to include a legal basis to ensure that animal food is safe for public health. In today's legislation, we have the power to take action in relation to infectious agents and other harmful substances that pose a threat to animals. However, it is a weakness with today's law that we do not have similar powers in terms of infectious or alien substances that pose no threat to the animal as such, but in the next instance poses a threat to public health. Infectious or extraneous substances may be transmitted and threaten public health through both products such as milk, eggs and slaughter. The Meat Production Act, or the Food Act, provides for measures aimed at the products. However, we do not have the right to enter the crews and take direct action early in the chain. We cannot prohibit the placing on the market of animals carrying infectious or extraneous agents, which are a threat to public health but which do not cause disease to the animal. An example of this is the «hamburger bacterium», which does not cause disease in the animals but causes serious disease in humans. This is not satisfactory. The proposal to amend the law will pay for it. Furthermore, the Government proposes to change the replacement rules on two points. Firstly, imported animals and Norwegian-born animals will now be treated equally if they are replaced after an outbreak of disease. Norway has concluded, through both the WTO Agreement and the EEA Agreement, that trade with live animals should be allowed if they fulfil the animal health conditions for such trade. It would be wrong if the state, on the one hand, said that it is permitted to trade with animals and, on the other hand, that the farmer had to bear the costs even if an imported animal were to be required to be killed for disease reasons. The assumption here is, of course, that at the time the trade took place, the animal met the conditions for trade. We can therefore, on a specific basis, prohibit the importation of live animals from specific countries from a given time, but if there are no such specific reasons for prohibiting imports, imports will be allowed and in that case the imported animal must be treated in a non-discriminatory manner with the Norwegians. In addition, the replacement rules are proposed to be amended as regards the procedures for the replacement measurement. Today, the value of the animals is determined by judgement, but in accordance with the rules in force, maximum rates of compensation are set for animals, so that the discretion is limited upwards as regards the size of the compensation. This is a time-consuming and costly procedure. The government is now proposing the introduction of a system of standard rates for the value of animals. As the rates are known, owners of particularly valuable animals will be able to take out insurance against the value exceeding the amount of compensation. The rates are set in close cooperation with industry, and will be reviewed and, where appropriate, adjusted at regular intervals. I have recorded that there are different perceptions in Stortinget regarding the legal basis for levying a fee on feed for dogs and cats. The fee base shall be extended to all pet animals but shall not apply to feed for farmed animals. Horses shall be considered as farmed animals in this context. The amount of the fee shall be as laid down in the Regulation and all interested parties shall be given the opportunity to comment on any change in the fee rate. The funds shall contribute to the financing of general health prevention measures for pet animals and the veterinary watch regime for such animals. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the main steps taken by the Government in this bill are to ensure that we can reduce the risk of harmful infectious agents and aliens entering the food chain to a greater extent. We will be able early to implement targeted measures where the problems arise, thus ensuring that consumers are safe in animal food. Safe food is a central goal for me as Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e97	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e100	The Council of State referred to the possibility of dealing with animals and that it must therefore be wrong for the owners, in the event of their being required to slaughter for disease, to bear the costs. Yeah, it's a principle. Another principle is that we also have a great responsibility to improve the protection against infection in both public and animal health. I believe that the Council of State is also very concerned. So then it will be to consider the need for increased non-discrimination in terms of economics, and our need for better protection against infection. I could imagine that the Council of State should have a slightly better reason than that, as a matter of principle, it is wrong that the importer of a permitted product should bear the costs of, for example, the goods. that it attaches something to someone who makes you have to destroy it, whether it's an animal or it's another product. It's hard to understand what it's going to be in principle that is going to be beyond the great and necessary need we now have to ensure better against the infection that we all know goes with increasing trade in cross-border animals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e110	I do not doubt the genuine involvement of the representative Karin Andersen in this matter. It's an engagement that we all share in the hall, I think. We will prevent animal diseases from being imported from the outside and getting footholds in Norway. Just one clarification: it is not the case that the owners do not receive compensation today when imported animals are required to be killed. If they're over six months old, they'll be compensated for. That's the first six-month period we might be talking about, and that we disagree about.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e117	Only full map from my side: Let me stress that the first principle relating to the import of live animals is that we should monitor at all times the animal health situation in Europe, which is the nearby area from which to import. It is clear that if we become aware of special conditions in a country that causes us to fear animal health in case of import, security measures will be put in place by the Norwegian side to prevent imports from being allowed. If such conditions do not exist, imports are permitted. But it is not in this way to understand that an import can happen without control. Although one has now changed the control system, when importing live animals, a special regime is in place, with controls from both veterinarians in the country of dispatch and veterinarians in the country of destination. Then it will be a period before the animal is declared to be fresh or in the worst case the opposite. And it's based on the principle that one has made a legal import, one has been subject to the import legislation as it is to be done. One is then facing an animal that has entered Norway legally, which has been approved by a veterinarian both here and in the country of dispatch. Then our starting point is that in that case the animal owners should be treated in a non-discriminatory manner. Then, of course, we could have said that we like animals so badly that we almost use economic instruments to prevent it from happening. To say that trade between countries cannot be governed by whether one at any time likes or dislikes what happens. We might have to have some clearer guidelines than that. Therefore, we need to deal with import-related issues or not imports of live animals in the same way as the EU when they sometimes plan to do so. to introduce prohibition measures in relation to imports of Norwegian salmon. One must relate to the same legislation and to the same strict professional documentation requirements. And it's probably not least a small nation that Norway relies heavily on, that one has clear driving rules in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e128	Karin Andersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e132	The principles in this matter are important. And here it's not a question of whether you like it or not. The first question to be taken into account is whether or not this should be allowed. I understand that both the EU and the Norwegian Government are now assessing the infection situation. And the second is whether we're going to have a policy that inhibits or promotes something that we know increases the risk. In the current situation, it is important for us not to go into measures that promote something that we know increases the risk of infection. We're very concerned about that. Moreover, I am a little surprised that the centre party is not more involved in this matter when they had such an involvement with the veterinary agreement. This is about exactly the same policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e139	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 197]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e153	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 198]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e167	The agricultural industry is currently contributing little to the financing of industry-oriented research. For the treatment of St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, on Norwegian agriculture and food production, the Committee agreed on an extension of the purpose and the basis for a research fee. This means that a person will have a significant increase in the resources that he can use for research aimed at both primary agriculture and food. This measure must be seen in the context of the value creation programme adopted in the course of the year's agricultural settlement. The results of this programme and the increased research could mean safe, high-quality foods as well as a greater diversity of products. The aim is to ensure a provision and a price for agricultural products that benefit both the primary producer and also the food industry. The rate for the research fee today is 0.3 pst. This rate is withdrawn from the law, but the Committee assumes that the rate of the levy remains at 0,3 pst, as otherwise described in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e178	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 198]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e191	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-5.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e197	During the debate, Mr Andersen put forward the proposals. 1-3, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with an adequate assessment of the principle and practical consequences of the rules contained in the bill for the rights of all persons and for the relationship between different nutritionists in the area concerned.’ 2 sounds:'Greatness asks the Government not to open the release of non-local species.'Proposal No. 3 reads:‘The Government asks the Government to prepare and launch a research project to clarify the ecological and environmental impact of sea grazing.’ These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e451	The Socialist Left Party and the Bastesen representative have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e461	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e470	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e476	During the debate, Mr Lilletun, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, put forward the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the necessary changes to the Seawater Fishing Act based on the continuation of the principle of weekend fisheries.’ This proposal will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e536	The Christian People's Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e548	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Christian People's Party also here wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e561	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e629	The Socialist Left Party has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e696	The Progress Party and the Right have notified that they are voting against the first paragraph. So it goes over this term first and then over the second, third and fourth terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e731	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e740	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e774	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e783	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e871	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e880	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-07-lower-2.ana.ud2585e889	There is no record.
