ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e87	Three permit applications are available: from the representative of Fridtjof Frank Gundersen on leave from 14 November to 16 November to take part in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western European Union in Paris of the Workers' Party Group on the leave of the representative Einar Johansen from 14 November to 17 November to take part in the meeting of the Joint Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission in Murmansk from the representative of Steinar Bastesen on welfare leave from 14 November to 17 November On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period for Akershus County: André KokkestadFor Finnmark County: Inger Lise BalandinFor Nordland County: Arvid Falch
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e133	The representative, Bjørn Hernæs, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e136	On behalf of Ansgar Gabrielsen, Jan Tore Sanner and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ask the Government to submit a new report on predator management.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e141	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e144	I allow myself to make a proposal to grant compensation to Tore Sandberg for 900000 kroner to cover tax claims resulting from the gift Sandberg received from Per Liland, and costs to be exempted from the tax charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e149	The representative of Steinar Bastesen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e152	I would like to make a proposal concerning a system of cancelling debts relating to the public transport project, which takes payment from the travellers and which has a heavy debt burden, in line with the debt cancellation relating to the Gardermoban.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e157	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e169	The position we are discussing today concerns the practice of soil and concession law as exercised by the authorities during the four-year period 1996 to 1999. It is, of course, practiced on the basis of a law adopted by this Assembly. On not minor points, the Right has had other legislative proposals, but this is primarily about the practice of the law on which de facto has been based. When you read St.meld. No 35, you can see that there's a not insignificant number of highly educated people sitting and working on a lot of unnecessary things. Much unnecessary work is done in the municipalities, in the counties, in the counties and to the extent in the department. It is quite obvious that part of this is completely redundant and not requested by the residents. The other thing that's absolutely certain is that, in fact, both the government party and the central parties are in the process of, in limited areas, taking advantage of it. They did so when dealing with the agricultural notification in spring, by e.g. the State's right of pre-emption is now suspended. That scheme has cost tens of millions each year. In this period that we are now talking about – 1996-1999 – 20 000 concession cases have been dealt with in the bureaucracy, and when we know that each case involves from 20 to 50 politicians, with the associated hopes of case handlers, everyone understands that this costs money. So what we're really doing is keeping alive in a good number of highly educated people who are going to work on completely unnecessary things -- in a situation where the public sector is screaming for highly educated workers. The second thing I want to say is that the Norwegian people have to be patient about their behaviour. And I'm absolutely sure that if the concession issues relating to individuals had dealt with the individuals at the same time, the bulk of the population would have made big changes quite quickly. In the context of the agricultural notification, a number of guidelines were laid down for the Government, which is now being worked on by the Council of State, and which relate to the obligation to live and operate. Here it has been that the municipalities have access to dispensation, and it is done to a large extent by approximately 92 pst. granted exemption from the obligation to live and work – in particular the obligation to live and work – is fulfilled by the rental of the land. Now it is the case that the majority want to legislate on fixed criteria in which cases you live and not live on the property. It's going to be a new branch in the municipalities, because as far as I'm concerned, you have to count how many days you've spent in which beds. It will only be the imagination that limits the design of these rules for Hanssen, the Council of State. I could imagine Hanssen briefly explaining what has been sent out to the hearing now, which goes on this dune lifting mentality, as some call it. Another point finally. It is not so common in any way to commend an agricultural minister, and not at all from the Right, but I am going to make an honest exception, because the legislation that is being administered is, of course, the Council of State has to manage; on the other hand, there is a not insignificant understanding of this. And now we've had a single thing in Tolga that's gone over 17 years in the bureaucracy. On the basis of the meter-high pile of papers, you can only imagine what this cost – and the whole bottom of being placed on two farms at the same time. It's clear that this isn't easy to fulfil. The most important thing, in my view, in this area now in the future is precisely the rules for which the Council of State is now to draw up when living on a property, where it is actually suggested that the number of nights spent in one or the other or the third place respectively – what do I know? – shall be essential for meeting the criteria for retaining a property purchased or transferred in connection with nodel. So you have to have the exact same number of buttons that the officer's corps have here before we can set the meetings. Maybe the Council of State will explain a little bit of this census.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e186	St.meld. No 35 is about the practice of the Soil and Concession Act between 1996 and 1999. Demand for agricultural property is formidable on a national basis. Especially in the urban struts, it's queues when agricultural properties are exposed for open sale. Furthermore, in Norway, with family and family inheritance, they have greater rights and opportunities than others to acquire property through the possibilities of exemption from the Concession Act. The Soil and Concession Act, on the other hand, has ensured local ownership. Our society is changing, and after this period — 1996–99 — the Stortinget has addressed the agricultural message of the Bondevik government and has provided clear guidance for the further practice of the law on soil and concession. An important change is that there is no longer a concession obligation and therefore no obligation to operate in farms under 20 covers of total area. However, the message also says to strengthen the housing obligation for properties based on today's practice on properties over 20 dean. As a result, the availability of property for those who do not have family and inheritance from relatives becomes easier when this large amount of farm use under 20 covers is no longer subject to concession. At the same time, it will be easier to use them for leisure purposes, and it may also be easier for those who want to use them for permanent residence. I feel that the discussion in the future has to go in what kind of way we're going to use these housing resources. For District Norway, resident interests are important in maintaining the labour force, in the competence and in driving industrial development in the community. Property used for leisure purposes has a very limited value for the community in a large and long-term perspective. In the competition for these attractive properties, it is important that the economic differences in society do not result in capitalist leisure interests being vested in other parties seeking the place of residence. The housing sector contributes more to development and well-being and, in the long term, there may be considerable consequences for rural development of the kind of interests that can be managed by these resources. It is therefore important to practise the Law on Soil and Concession so that municipalities can use this resource to a greater extent in a local spatial planning, a local planning, and in a long-term perspective. Experience from the period to which the message refers indicates that, when municipalities are given greater authority, the proportion of time-limited exemptions increases at the expense of exemptions without a time limit. This is positive because I think it then shows that you've been given greater acceptance for the practice of the obligation to live. The majority believe that it is important to work to develop an appropriate practice so that the municipalities that want to do so can use agricultural property to recruit families both for the agricultural industry and for permanent residence for other industrial activities. These farms are a major asset for housing and business development, and it is also important to ensure that those who wish to establish themselves on farms in Norway are able to do so. I think it is important in the further work on law-making that new instruments are also being considered, so that those interested in this for housing purposes get to the resources more easily. Unfortunately, practice shows that the proportion of redisposal of the national natural resource has increased, and that we also have too little quality assessment around the redisposal of food resources. And we know that the trend that it is the most important and valuable part of the food soil that is most redisposable has unfortunately not changed. So in order to provide a basis for taking care of the Norwegian food resource, these methods should be improved. It is also important to have a national plan on how to dispose of food resources for golf courses, because there are quite central food resources used for golf courses and they become difficult to use for food production over time. Pre-buying rights have been exercised during the period, and it appears that the resources used are not proportionate to what is achieved by prudent and appropriate management. The pre-purchase right was also decided upon in its then form during the treatment in spring. But this will be exacerbated by the fact that you might have to have a different practice around the concession decisions. There is a slight difference of view in the Committee's assessment of the correctness or non-practice of the exemption. I just want to say in the end that I think it is important that the practice of living and working is part of the planning and development work in the municipalities, so that we make a local acceptance for an appropriate practice. That, I think, will be absolutely essential for the maintenance of this way of securing local ownership. I also think it is important to bear in mind that there is a practice that does not mean that they with little equity do not actually have access to the very attractive national resource of agricultural property.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e209	The party of progress is not included in the majority's comments in the vote, and I should like to explain that in more detail. We see that the way it works today, and as the message carries out a bid, today's rigorous legislation and legislation in the field of agricultural legislation maintains a large and comprehensive bureaucracy that scalls and chooses with other people's property rights. Here, the Progress Party wants much more liberal legislation and more liberal lawmaking than today's legislation. We say outright that there is a threat to the individual's right to own and possess his own property. Therefore, the lead position of the Party is to abolish part of the restrictions imposed on agricultural and forestry property, as well as to repeal the provisions applicable to housing and operational obligations, and legislation preventing the free movement of agricultural property. This position is well known. Within the existing legislation, we want a liberal practice of soil and concession law. Now that state pre-emption law is being abolished, we can see no reason why this should be combined with the possibilities to refuse a concession. It can to some extent mean a continuation of current policies that will restrict freedom and private ownership. In the last ten years, the total agricultural area in Norway has increased by 4 pst. of what is in operation. It's an increase in all parts of the country. The increase has taken place despite relatively small new cultivation during this period and some re-disposal of cultivated land for other purposes. In a situation where we sometimes experience a strong overproduction pressure against all the traditional agricultural products in Norway, it must be okay, we believe in the Progress Party, to facilitate this pressure by redispersing land to other value-creating production when it preserves or strengthens soil protection. The case rapporteur was in his post on this with golf courses, and I brought here Innst. S. No 167 for 1999-2000 on Norwegian agriculture and food production, which we treated in ours, when the whole agricultural sector received extensive treatment in the United Kingdom. This position refers to an investigation carried out by Eirik Romstad in 1999 at the Institute of Economics and Social Affairs at Norway's High School of Agricultural Sciences, where he states that redisposing the use of agricultural land to golf courses means strengthening soil protection in Norway. Because if you convert golf courses, assuming it's done in a proper way, by adding irrigation pipes and other installations under the plough depth, it's a very sensible conversion. I would also like to refer to today's Nations and an interview with the Minister of Agriculture, where he says that it is overproduction, among other things. has negatively affected farmers in recent years. Then, of course, this with alternative uses, horse-keeping, golf courses, etc., is an incentive to make it easier for farmers to get more out of agriculture, forestry and other things they have on their properties. So that's why we see it as very reasonable that in today's situation you open up the possibility of redisposing to golf courses etc. The communication addressed today by the Stortinget provides, in general, an overview of changes in legislation and figures showing the activities of the departments, county agricultural governments and local authorities during the period covered by the notification. As I have said before, all parties were thoroughly informed of their basic policies in the treatment of St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000 in our, and I will therefore refrain from further comments on this message now. Moreover, it is quite clear from the vote what the different parties stand for – what the majority stands for and what the minority stands for. I feel that we will come back to more fundamental debates on these issues in connection with the agricultural settlement for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e222	With background in St.meld. No 35 I believe, although this is a statement of an actual situation, that even in the agricultural sector, the same general ambition as in the public sector should be adopted when we talk about modernisation – and that is what we do in every sector. I think it's high time we were in a situation where Norwegian farmers are struggling with a completely different set of problems than we were doing for a few years ago, that we take political action to clean up a jungle of law, a jungle of regulations in thousands that has a strong need to be simplified and transformed in such a way that Norwegian agriculture does not get stuck with the costs of a billion-class administration, which ultimately comes with and reinforces the picture of Norwegian households that Norwegian agriculture has too high a price. Some of this price has been thwarted by Norwegian politicians, and it is now a golden opportunity to grasp and get simplified regulations for it. One has not yet been willing to take over the actual situation of Norwegian agriculture. We see clear trends in overproduction as one of the main problems in creating poor profitability. It is not considered politically to do anything about this when one continues to practice a policy that primarily stimulates continued overproduction. One goes the very opposite way in terms of regulations such as housing and driving, where the regulation is tightened up. This only generates an increase in overproduction, while there is a new contribution to ensuring that there are even more empty houses in rural areas. After hearing the statement from the rapporteur, it must be allowed to ask the question: How much documentation do the majority parties need to have to look at the actual situation in Bygde-Norway? How many more empty houses, abandoned cooperatives or abandoned schools do you have to have before you can start to practice redundancy policy, soil and concession law policies, in a different and more positive way? It must be a worn-out expression to warn against capital forces. It warns against allowing displaced sons or daughters to buy a leisure property, and sets it in the same booth, the same conceptual threshold that these are capital forces that are going to buy properties in rural areas, and thus is a threat to rural areas. In fact, you can't turn the matter upside down more than the majority of parties still perform in the position we're dealing with today. I would strongly urge the Minister of Agriculture to take an active action in this area as well. I have seen that he has been willing to go new ways in other areas – and he must be cordially welcome to do so. Furthermore, I would also warn against considering the development of the number of golf courses in Norway as a threat. It's actually nothing but positive when you look at what the golf sport has of other ringing effects. It is not primarily in this area that we see a threat to cultivated or arable soil developing. So like Hedstrom, I hope what's in the setting, will not be practiced in such a way that there is now a sudden stop in the development of sports and golf courses in Norway. Finally, I just want to point out a single item that has received relatively large media coverage, and that is the purchase and sale case at Jevnaker in Uppland. Here we see an example of a buyer and a seller agreeing on a price for one of the country's most beautiful farms where the buyer is actually going to live and operate the farm, a farm with significant values – 720 covers arable land, construction and facilities, a milk quota of 240 000 kilos. You're going to find out politically that $9.6 million. NOK for this magnificent work is too high a price. I think Norwegian politicians have to start marketing barley Norway with the values you have here, in a completely different way than this. I do not see that the same forces in any particularly effective way lift a finger when you sell apartments of 70-80 m2 to 2-3 million. kr in the cities, and the same participating interests are given a new notice to invest primarily in densely populated areas. Put on a different and more positive policy for Building Norway! It's going to make a lot of money in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e235	I'll make this article quite short. The issue is a review of how things have worked in recent years. And it might be useful to look back and see if things have worked as they were when the provision was introduced, and whether we can learn from what we see, and correct for directions forward. But I don't see any particular purpose in immersing myself in these issues today. We'll get back to that later. After all, we get a case to the Stortinget regarding the follow-up to the agricultural notification, especially with regard to concession law and the neighbouring law. It seems that most of our provisions are working – I'll say that. So there may be a basis for asking some questions in some areas, such as: in the case of compulsory residence and compulsory employment, which are already covered by several circumstances, and whether it has worked in such a way that we strengthen the residence. It's at least a relationship that we out in District Norway are very concerned about. I have noticed that the Ministry of Agriculture does not have good tasks over the country's soil resources based on the value of these resources for food production. There is also insufficient evidence of the proportion of land resources that have been redispatched and the purpose for which they have been redispatched. The Ministry concludes that there is insufficient data on which aspects of social development poses the greatest threat against our land resources, and therefore the knowledge base for developing policies and instruments is not good enough. I think it is reassuring that the Department points out this relationship, and that the next section says that the Department will continue to work on this to arrive at methods that make us have a safer data base to design policy. [[Breimo]] As I said, we will have a much better basis for discussing the various issues when the Government's proposal is available. We're going to have to take care of this big message until that happens, and until the debate we're going to have. It might be tempting to comment on the comments made by the representatives Gabrielsen and Hedstrøm, but I also get back to that. I assume that they will not change their mind on these conditions until the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e254	St.meld. No 35 for 1999-2000 On the practice of soil and concession law in 1996-1999, a statistical overview of the use made of the concession law, the law on soil and the rules on housing and employment during the period 1996-99. The purpose of the message is to provide the Storting with a summary briefing. As many people have been involved, the Stortinget has just dealt with an agricultural message, St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, where the then government proposed that a number of themes of agricultural legislation be revised, including the concession law and the rules on residence and compulsory employment. Proposals were also made for measures aimed at strengthening the protection of production areas, in particular in order to avoid the degradation of food-producing areas. The increase dealt with the agricultural notification in May, and the majority supported these proposals. The articles here today, in my view, bear the impression of a kind of repetition of the views expressed in the treatment of St.meld. No 19th@item: I would therefore like to give a brief report on how far the work on the proposals has come. The Ministry of Agriculture and the counties are actively working to raise awareness of the value of productive land and the importance of maintaining such land by decision-makers in local planning processes. In addition, the Agriculture Communication provides that the Plan Law Committee, the committee set up for the revision of the Planning and Building Act, shall include the examination of changes in practice or legal rules which may contribute to the strengthening of resource protection through the planning system. The material in St.meld. No 35 shows the state before these measures were launched. The proposals for the abolition of pre-emption rights, the change of residence and the increase of land limits in the concession law and the Odel Act were sent at the hearing of the Ministry in July/August. The hearing period is now over, and the ministry is working on an Ot.prp. which will be promoted for Stortinget as soon as possible during the harvest session. The size will then have the opportunity to discuss the issues that are relevant in this context, in their full scope in the near future. Today's debate is marked by the fact that there can be an interesting debate. The government is then in the final phase of this work, and it will therefore be wrong for me now to explain the conclusions on these issues. When this proposition has been promoted by Stortinget and the Stortinget has dealt with it, work will be done on the other legislative proposals that were promoted in St.meld. No 19, be set in motion as an immediate follow-up after these «fast laws» changes have been dealt with by Stortinget. I guess this could start a little bit out in the New Year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e274	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e277	The Council of State provided brief information on progress in the field of legislation, in line with the agricultural notification and the views expressed there. But there is a lot going on outside Norway. Many believe that developments, especially in the liberalising direction, are going extremely slowly in Norway. We see that Finland is in the middle of a tough process of conversion. They have also had a well-regulated agriculture in the past, but they understand that it is now time for them to do what is absolutely necessary for Finland to be competitive in the future. You can't have these huge transfers to an industry when the downturn and the downturn are coming. We know that for approx. two years ago, Professor Norman Aanesland and researcher Olaf Holm at Norway's agricultural high school conducted a survey comparing Sweden and Norway. Sweden liberalised legislation in 1991. They lifted the obligation to live and were free to set prices on agricultural properties. Hedmark and Värmland were compared. After this liberalisation in Värmland, more people have actually settled in the properties and a greater desire to invest in agriculture. Thus, it has been achieved by liberalising what in Norway has been the intention of a very well-regulated policy. To what extent are the results obtained from comparable countries in Sweden assessed when the Government draws up the vision of a future agricultural policy in our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e288	The size of the population has only recently, as Hedstrom was also involved in his first speech, had a broad and comprehensive review of agricultural policy and given clear signals as to the route the Storting wants the policy to take in time. The size also has a very clear view of what is going to happen to the housing and operating obligations, what is going to happen to the concession law and the pre-purchase law, etc. What the Government uses in its work are the majority comments from the Storting's treatment of this big-mouth message. It will continue to be on the basis that the proposition will be submitted to the Storting and it will be promoted quite quickly. So, of course, Hedstrom takes up the broad debate that we had in May. My basic attitude to the questions raised by Hedstrøm is that it is quite right that we should have a completely different agricultural policy in Norway than the Swedish have led. I am not aware of the specific studies that Hedstrom refers to in relation to a comparison between Hedmark and Värmland, but if you drive Norway from south to north, and drive Sweden from south to north, it is obvious that these are two countries that have a very different structure in terms of settlement, cultural landscape and living rural communities. There is a great difference between the two countries, and the reason why there is so much difference in housing and cultural landscapes is that in Norway a completely different agricultural policy has been pursued than in Sweden. So the government feels very secure on the basis that an active agricultural policy like the one currently being pursued is the best way to achieve the versatile objectives of agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e295	I was somewhat surprised that both the Right Party and the Advance Party partly made up for a rematch in connection with the agricultural message when we dealt with history here. Of course, the representatives have the right to use the speaking time in the way they find useful, but I just wanted to signal from the Christian People's Party's side and the Centre's side that we are well satisfied with the way in which the minister summarized the work further. Progress seems quite straightforward, as are the plural comments and decisions from the management of the agricultural notification, which are of course the basis of the proposition that will be made. I think it would be exciting if the Minister of Agriculture also made some comparisons, because I think if one makes a good comparison and looks at the settlement in Norway versus countries that have led a liberalist agricultural policy internationally, I think we will get very well. Some adjustments were necessary, some new grips were needed and a consequence of the agricultural notification was made. That's what the Minister of Agriculture is about to follow up, but I'm looking forward to some of the documentation being associated with the proposition. One more thing I would like to remind you of, and it is the attempts that have now been made in the direction of, among other things. Farmers and small users in cooperation with some individual municipalities, by posting free ownership on the Internet and seeing what it has to say for the construction. It seemed to me to be a very interesting project; this might have been interesting to get ready. One sees that there are many grips here. I think the majority are safe on that many have said, and I am pleased that the minister will follow that line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e305	I will, of course, take along the wishes of the representative Lilletun. What I think will be the challenge for the department is that we feel that we have a very strong time pressure in this matter. We want to promote the proposition so quickly that if it's possible for the Storting, we might get to work together to make some changes from New Year's. So, within the need to bring forward the proposition as quickly as possible for the purpose of Storting's work, I'm going to take into account the wishes of the representative, and see if it is possible to come up with this type of experience material also in the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e310	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 393]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e326	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 393]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e340	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 393]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e354	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 393]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e368	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 393]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e382	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 393]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e396	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 394]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e410	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 394]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e422	This proposal has been submitted because Ot.prp. No 2, on VAT reform, is to be dealt with in parallel with the State budget. And not only that, in addition, it is in fact that many of the proposals in the reform will be implemented in a relatively short period of time as a result of the examination of the budget. It is totally unsustainable, in the opinion of the Progress Party, to make such deteriorations in the framework conditions at such short notice as the Government now provides. It should be such that there is a minimum predictability in dealing with such large-scale cases. Reforms of this nature must be expected to be adopted in good time, so that all those affected have the opportunity to deal with them and then adjust. Another factor is that many have made large investments related to their business activities in good time before this reform was announced. They will not be able to benefit from a deduction of the input tax after the adoption of the VAT reform. This, of course, means major distortions of competition for stakeholders – in other words, transitional or compensation schemes should have been proposed that would have brought about the consequences of the VAT reform. It would have been better if the Government had presented this reform as a big message that was dealt with independently of the budget, where the major issues of principle were first discussed without having to be biased to provincial considerations, and then possibly followed it up at a later date in a later budget. It is therefore desirable that the Government withdraw this proposition and, at a later stage, promote the necessary communications, so that the Storting can discuss the matter independently of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e433	First of all, I would like to say that in the case of Document No. The 8-proposal, I agree that it must be dealt with now, so that at an early stage one knows the conditions for the further examination of the budget and this proposition in the autumn. As regards the argumentation for Document No The 8-proposal for the Government to withdraw the matter, I have to say that it is quite surprising. It is stated that some have made investments that have not fully understood the consequences of, and that it is important that businesses know the long-term framework conditions. There are conditions that I agree are important for business, but I can hardly imagine any case where the arguments are weaker than in this case. This is because the starting point for us to consider a proposal for a change in the VAT system is the position of the Storvik Committee, which actually came back as far as 1990. And is there any thing that business and others have known about being discussed in the political system – and that the discussion will end with a proposal for a change – that is precisely this matter. It also seems a little strange that it should be difficult to relate to a proposition that is now coming, and where one has proposed the effect from 1 July next year, when one sees the comments of the two parties that are behind Document No. The 8th proposal, referred to the previous government's report on the VAT reform in the national budget for this year. In the context of the national budget presented last year, the previous government said that they would make a proposal to amend VAT legislation before Easter this year and then make a proposal. The progressing party stated that they took it for information, and the right said the same point that it had taken a long time, and pointed to the Storvik Committee's position in 1990. In this context, it is difficult to claim that there is some surprise that there are proposals for changes to VAT legislation. What was said by the previous government was that one aimed at impact from 2001. So the change of government led to the matter coming a little later than what was proposed by the previous government, but in line with the way in which the previous government presented the matter. The date of application of the reform has been proposed from 1 July next year to allow for all things to be put in place following the necessary legislative decisions. It's always so that when you change the system, like you do here, there'll be transition dilemmas. But it doesn't get any better or worse if you do it at a later stage. I believe that the Stortinget has been well prepared for this matter to come, and that it should actually come even earlier. It has been ample opportunity from 1990 to now for all those affected by a VAT reform to calculate and express how the reform will work in each area. The reform has also been proposed as a zero-sum game economically, precisely because it is the change of systems that is important. From the Labour Party we believe that now that we have been dealing with this matter for ten years, the time has come to find out what you really think about the future VAT system. We recommend that Document No. The 8 proposal is rejected, and we are dealing with the matter on the basis that is now available.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e450	When the latter speaks from the pulpit that we have been doing this matter for ten years, I thought it must be an expression that we grossing-up representatives have been engaged in the VAT reform for ten years. Of course we haven't. There is a Norwegian public investigation that has been in the Ministry of Finance's archives for a number of years, approx. 10 years, which have been tried by various governments. But as elections have approached, governments have taken it aside. This concerns the government of Harlem Brundtland, the government of Jagland and the government of Bondevik. Now the government of Stoltenberg has promoted it and packed it into the budget so that it will be as difficult as possible to oppose. I think it's a good thing to say it this way, because often you wonder what to say from the Storting Chair, and then you can basically say what you're saying in the corridors anyway. And that's what they say. Then you can say that you are not surprised that the matter is coming. Well, when it comes as a big deal, I'm actually. I do not participate in Norwegian public investigations, I participate in debates on political documents. I register how the government will present the matter. I was satisfied with the way the Bondevik government would do it, but I am now largely alone to be satisfied with, as with so much else. I was pleased with the Bondevik government's plan to put forward a proposition first – it could have been a message, but a proposition is a good form – which discusses the principles and proposes the changes to the laws; amounts, etc. comes into the later budget. That's what I think was a good way to do it. Presentation in the Passover was in the last team, but well, well – we accepted that procedure. That is why the comment that the representative, Mr. Dag Terje Andersen, has just pointed out was a very straightforward comment, and I still believe so. Now the Bondevik parties believe that the matter should not be dealt with by a previous proposition. Now they're going to take it as part of a global horse trade. In fact, I believe that it is quite important to deal with it in a way that first gets the principles, detached from a budgetary context, and then gets it as part of the budget. I think that is actually a responsible procedure. It also meant all parties when we dealt with the tax reform in its time. Let me just remind you that one and a half years were spent on the treatment of it, through four large-scale documents: first a message from the then government, the Syse government, which drew up some main principles, then a proposition independent of the budget, which drew up the concrete content of a tax reform – it was spent a long time dealing with, through a whole spring – as part of the budget, but nevertheless with additional documents late in the fall of the same year. So this is going to be a half-year of treatment. I have nothing to object to by the Storvik Committee. It's an excellent setting, except that it's ten years old, and a lot has happened since that time. I would like, among other things: challenge the representative Andersen to answer the following questions: Where in the Storvik Committee's setting does he find the review of the health studios? It's not that easy to answer because of course you can't find it. They almost didn't exist at the time. Since then, they have become a fairly large industry and part of the overall concept of sport. In fact, it has come so far that the Sports Association was concluding an agreement on commercial cooperation with the health studios, i.e. they had become an organized part of the total popular sport movement. I must respectfully say that it is just as heroic to train in a health studio as to sit and watch a football game. One, that is, sitting, is to be exempt from VAT, while moving, as 300,000 people actually do in Norway, is to be subject to VAT. The good reason for this is not found in the Storvik Committee's position, which is not mentioned, nor in the Government documents, which are hardly mentioned. The health studios have not even been a hearing body, because they were not there when the Storvik Committee's suspension was sent out to the hearing. Therefore I have the following question to Dag Terje Andersen: What does he mean about this? And I have the following questions to the Minister of Finance: Why has the Government not addressed this question in the proposition? And why haven't they been a hearing officer? What is the Government's reason for excluding this part of physical birth from the second part of physical birth? In fact, I believe that there is no reason for this at all in the documents. But if I had overlooked that, I would be very happy to be made aware of where the reason is. Another reason why the Right strongly argues for a postponement is that all those who have been at the Committee hearing claim that the Ministry of Finance's calculations are incorrect. And of course it may be wrong, but there is a tendency that the Ministry of Finance has overestimated the deductibility of input VAT. I'll be specific and take an example. It's about ski lifts – it's not the major part of the industry, but it's a very important part of some district industries that have developed quite strongly in recent times – where you've invested many millions of dollars, many of them may say over the top, but at least you've invested in them, and they're subject to 23 pst. VAT. What do they have minus? The Swedes are now reducing VAT for ski lifts on the other side of the border, i.e. in Sweden, to 6 p.m., for example. justifying the development of district and tourist industries. So we're going the opposite way. But then the Ministry of Finance claims they don't get 23 pst. net costs because they have significant input VAT. The elevator industry answers the following: We do not have any incoming VAT, because we have invested. We're not going to invest 5 cents in the next ten years, if we're going to survive at all in the next ten years. So the Ministry of Finance says, yes, but on average you invest so much per. years. Yeah, says the elevator industry, that's right, but we've put that average behind us. It raises the following interesting questions: Should industries be deducted from VAT in the first year, second year, for some investments made in the previous two to three years, in order to facilitate the transition? This question is only so much discussed on half a side of the proposition. I think that's quite irresponsible, because it exposes some industries to very tough transition shocks, and this isn't a industry that since the Storvik Committee's setting came, has known it would happen, well to notice. Secondly, I believe that there are also distortions and distortions of competition between industries that have not been sufficiently discussed. I also have a challenge for the Minister of Finance. This question was one of what we actually discussed in the financial committee when the Bondevik government presented this – we specifically asked for it to be discussed. The fact that buying legal services is subject to VAT, while having legal services under its own control is not subject to VAT will lead to a distortion of the cost of purchasing services, while operating under its own regime is less expensive relatively. So if you include the law firm then and then – these are quite big businesses – they will probably make good money, but they will be able to continue doing so if it is operated under their own control by large groups. The question of the distortion of competition which, of course, lies between large enterprises and small enterprises that can never have a legal department, I do not see that any discussion has taken place. I know that the Bondevik government was concerned about this, because it was pointed out that here there is a germ at a significant discrimination at the expense of small businesses, but this government has, as far as I can see, overlooked this in silence in the proposition. Therefore, I challenge the Minister of Finance to answer the following questions: What is the reason why it has not been discussed? Or if you have discussed it, but made it oral, if you have a reason for it. I have affected the distortion of competition that indirectly lies in another aspect of operating under my own control and purchasing services for the municipalities. I don't think I'm going to ask this, because I register that all the activities of the municipalities are to be distributed, while the municipalities are buying services from private people, they don't want the government sitting there. But that's another question, which we get to come back to, and to which I haven't completely given up re-creating some justice in relation to. In fact, I believe that the question of getting a broader political consensus on a VAT reform – it is necessary to reform VAT – had been served by choosing a different procedure rather than pushing it into a State budget. I already know that our proposal is being put to the vote. I have to say, however, that I do not feel quite sure that the final sum of all the negotiating work will necessarily be that the cooperation parties enter into this with pleasure. Its deeper effects need to be reduced by the effects of VAT reform on individual industries, on single businesses, the more surprising effects you can see, and I think someone and everyone will be surprised when you start to go into this in detail and get time to really see the results. So I say with this that maybe the last word is not said when it comes to Storting's work on this matter in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e484	It is correct, as has been said by several, that the central government intended to submit a notification or a proposal first, and then to incorporate the proposal on VAT on services in the state budget. I still believe that it would have been both the best and the cleanest way to deal with the VAT reform, primarily to give the Storting the necessary time to deal with the matter. The main problem with the way it has now been presented is that VAT reform must be treated in parallel with the budget and concluded at the same time as the treatment of the State budget is completed in the autumn of the Grand Duchy, thus giving very limited time to deal with the reform. That's right, as stated by the speakers both from the Right and the Advance Party. In spite of this, the central parties believe that it is appropriate to deal with the VAT reform in the autumn in the context of the budget, both because it has had plenty of time to address the issue of VAT reform, and that if the VAT reform is to be pushed out in time, it will also have extensive implications for the State budget, as its effects have been incorporated into the State budget in many different areas. I am not going to make this a debate on the realities of VAT reform, as the Per-Kristian Foss tried, for which we shall have ample opportunity. Nor shall I make it a matter of consultation with the Minister of Finance on the various aspects of VAT reform, but I note only that some of the issues raised by Per-Kristian Foss are, of course, ample opportunity for us to discuss in the Committee at the end of the debate and to take the necessary reservations in relation to it. It is not true that VAT on legal services is primarily a problem for small companies, because small companies, in line with large companies, deduct VAT on legal services, but it may be a problem for some other groups that do not have the right to deduct VAT services that businesses want, just to take an example of an error from Per-Christian Foss' page. The central parties will therefore reject the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party, and we will incorporate the VAT reform into the State budget in the autumn and end the treatment in the way we have already said we will.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e499	The representative Foss was in his post so lovable to give me a little visit that he attached to the health studio, as an example of a theme that was not explored in the Storvik Committee. And that's probably true. There are also some goods in terms of trade and vice in Norway which already have VAT but which did not exist at the time VAT was introduced – it changes all the time – but the principle that we should have VAT on what is not specifically mentioned was part of the Storvik Committee, and it is at least that health studios were known when, in connection with the suspension of the national budget of the year, the right said that it was okay that there was a proposition before Easter. When it was actually announced a proposition about the spring, I think it is somewhat surprising that a watchman when there comes a proposition in the autumn. This comes in a separate proposition, although the figures in the State budget have been taken into account – it is discussed in one unit. Moreover, it may be that new things are being found in the future that neither the representative Foss nor I know today, and the later we introduce this VAT reform – which should be widely agreed on, but there may be disagreement as to which exceptions should be granted – the more many will be in an unpredictable situation during a start-up phase. It is not by chance that all other OECD countries, except the United States, already have the type of VAT system we are now proposing. And given that the Right is usually a party that talks about having a level playing field with the countries around us, or with the countries with which we compete, this is an example of how we are lagging behind in modernising the system, as opposed to the tax reform we had in 1992, where we were actually at the forefront of system changes that work with many other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e506	I have to ask for the floor one more time to also visit the representative, Dag Terje Andersen, because I react very strongly to the claim that since the Storvik Committee gave its position in 1990, all parties should be aware of what was the result of the Government. Of course it's not like that. Since the Storvik Committee gave its opinion on a new VAT system, this case has been in some drawer in the department. And all of a sudden, you find out that you have to deal with this matter quickly in the context of the state budget, probably because by doing it that way, you get through a series of relationships that you might not be able to go deep enough into in the context of such extensive work as the government budget is after all. And it turns out that when we ask the Department how to reset the entire VAT reform, what chapters and posts we have to cover in order to get the reform to zero to the Government, you don't get a complete answer, because the ministry obviously doesn't yet have a full overview of how to do this – which departments, which chapters, which items. You don't have an overview! It ends with the fact that in the party groups you have to put this at the various points, because you simply don't know the effect of it, and you don't actually have full control over the amount. It says something about the zero-sum game, to which Andersen's representative refers, maybe this is not exactly the zero-sum game. And in which case is it a zero sum game for? Yes, for the state! But what about all the parties affected by such an urgent implementation of a reform? Obviously you haven't thought about the consequences. I think it's quite expensive. When you look at the boundaries you have chosen to make between actors in the same industry, actors who compete for exactly the same customers, you have been able to draw up some artificial distinction. Take culture, where you talk about so-called commercial cultural offerings and cultural offers that you don't define as commercial, but that are just as fully located in border countries as regards attracting the same users – one offer is more expensive because it gets VAT, the other is not. Quite naturally, clearly, from the Government side, but it is not quite as natural for everyone else to deal with the reform. So this is a relationship that should have been more thoroughly investigated and given the opportunity to debate more thoroughly before it would have economic consequences. I also think it is special when Dag Terje Andersen says that the transition dilemmas do not go away even if you choose to postpone the matter. Well, maybe you had taken the time to discuss the transition dilemmas a little bit more than what you have actually done in this proposition, because they're not necessarily thoroughly debated by the Government on the proposition -- they're barely mentioned. And it's rejected as something you don't want to do. This might have meant a little more – another good reason for postponing the treatment of VAT reform. It is with some disappointment that I note that there is no majority in favour of doing this, and I regret to say that such urgent procedure will result in a number of decisions that you do not know the consequences of today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e515	I hesitated to take the floor because I thought it was a good tone in big debates that the councillor answered questions asked from the pulpit, but I now understand that it is over. I have tried to ask some questions to the Ministry of Finance during the committee's examination of the matter, but have not received an answer. That's why I want answers here and now, for the second time. So a couple of comments about what's said earlier. I understand that the representative Dag Terje Andersen is very concerned about old NOUs. Then I would like to remind the representative of Andersen about NOU 1993:8 about questions about the VAT rate should be differentiated. That's what I recommend for reading now. It is a NOW that no government has dared to go further, nor the government of Enoxsen, sorry, the government of Bondevik, where the Enochs were present. I have the feeling that they did not fully agree on everything, and this NOU never became a ‘higher’ in the Bondevik government, because it clearly concludes – quite unanimously – that differentiation in the VAT rate is very stupid. The committee rejects it on a very good professional basis, but professional investigations that do not suit political conveniences are dismissed. It should now be rediscovered, and I would recommend it to a collective Workers' Party big group. This could be promoted by a communication, for example: Next year. So to the question that the representative Enoch raised about small businesses. I just have to apologize and say that the representative of Enoxsen has misunderstood me. It did not apply whether there is a difference between the possibilities for small and large enterprises to deduct input tax. No, no, it was simply about the following questions: Will it not be that when you add VAT to the purchase, among other things. Lawyers, IT services and other services, would there be a tendency to organise with their own employees instead of buying services? I'll take a nearby example, the municipalities. Today, municipalities are buying IT services, because IT people are expensive to hire, and it's better to buy services and get rid of people when they're done with the job than to have them permanently employed forever. It is a reasonable reasoning that goes back in all municipalities. For municipalities it will now be loss-making compared to the past. I used an example of law services. It is clear that large companies that have their own legal departments can cope with smaller purchases, but smaller companies that do not have them have to buy, and regardless of whether you have a deduction from VAT, it will be more expensive to buy with 23 pst. VAT other than as it is today. It is a structural aspect of the reform that is not at all affected, if not now the Minister of Finance in his speech elaborates this in a way that we have not understood so far. It's quite right, as Andersen's representative says, that there can be a lot of future services that are not mentioned in the Storvik Committee. My point was simply as follows: When an investigation is ten years old, the government might have made good sense in drafting a proposal for VAT reform and sending it out to the hearing, considering that a number of those now affected have not received an opinion earlier, because they were not affected in the ten-year investigation. That's what I think was a point. I see clearly that you can draw parallels to the United States, and I would like to say that if the Government invites us to a debate on harmonising taxes with the United States, I am very open to it, absolutely. We could start by comparing tax levels, and if the government's benchmarking in that area leads to American tax levels, we are very open to participate in a debate on that and to be the government's supporting player in that work. It was also said that the transition problems don't go away even if we get to a postponement. No, that's quite right, but at least there was an opportunity to discuss transitional arrangements. The point is that what has come from government documents does not really discuss transitional arrangements. That is in other words, I think, a substantial objection. It is often the case that in the case of tax or VAT reforms, the reform itself does not create the very big problems, because there have been long periods of treatment, investigations and adjustments, but the transitions. It's the transitions that create the real problems, and you just want to push that aside. I think it is strange that we dare to go into this without having really discussed the transitional problems, and I am not reassured that the representative of Mr Enoxsen says that we will have enough time to discuss this in the Financial Committee for the remaining two weeks. I have a strong feeling that, apart from the week in which it is the Nordic Council, this last week will be used for something quite different than discussing transitional problems for ski lifts, health studios and other small businesses in connection with the VAT reform. If I'm wrong there, it would be very interesting to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e532	I hope the President will allow me to make a reasonably dispassionate contribution on these issues. I am somewhat surprised that the Progress Party and the Right almost present this matter as if the whole main issue came as the Christmas evening on the ring. After eight years in the Financial Committee, it is three years, I know that the principle of a mirrored VAT system has been a topic in the political debate for many years, especially because we see that society is changing, people's consumption is changing, and we know that an increasing share of consumption is going to be services in the future. At the same time, we also know that the largest single item in the State budget is the revenue from VAT, and it is simply about what kind of leadership we are going to put in to ensure that we have a proper funding of a welfare state. The debate on this principle is, in our opinion, overripe for a conclusion. This also means that the argumentation and the burden of proof are reversed in a way in relation to the need to argue to keep some services outside of a VAT increase, either in whole or in part at a lower rate. There are several aspects that SV believes should be discussed in more detail, such as: to introduce VAT on travel life and on public transport. In both of these areas, we're skeptical, and we'd rather keep them away from such a system transformation than taking them with us. However, the debate on the principle is of the opinion that we are overly mature for a conclusion. We should of course also like to wish that we had a long time to go into a debate about all the different ski lifts, health studios and other types of industries that also had to get into a special squeeze in this case, but we think it is right to conclude when it comes to the principle now. Rather, it is assumed that some transitional arrangements are liberal and that it is difficult to justify why a number of services should not be subject to VAT in the same way as goods, both because it is the general system in most other countries, and because the composition of consumption is changing. With this small, dispassionate contribution, I would recommend our group to vote against the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e545	Membershipless contributions from the representative, Mr Halvorsen, are difficult for the President to oppose.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e548	I should, of course, very much like to help inform the matter, as the representative Foss asked. At the same time, I have seen that today's discussion is primarily about the time of treatment and not about the different realities. So let me first comment on the treatment procedure. I note that the representatives Hagen and Petersen, having regard to the activities that are currently outside the VAT system and will therefore be affected by the reform, justify their proposal, among others. with the following: ‘It is in itself unsustainable to make such significant improvements to the framework conditions, in as short a time as the Government proposes.’ They then point to the needs of entrepreneurs for predictability, as representatives Foss and Jensen have also been involved in this debate, time for adaptations, etc. Like several other speakers, I must first be allowed to show that the Government's proposal is based on an investigation by the Storvik Committee which was issued ten years ago, in 1990. That investigation was sent to the public at large. Several governments have assessed, in the light of the investigation, the issue of the introduction of a general VAT on services. So the representatives Hagen and Petersen are asking for a big message about the VAT reform before making a bill. I would then like to remind you that the government of Bondevik presented a broad discussion of the issue of VAT reform in the national budget for 2000. Here, weaknesses were highlighted in today's system, and a sketch was presented for a VAT reform, based on the Storvik Committee's proposal. In this announcement, the Government of Bondevik announced that proposals for a proposal would be submitted before Easter this year and that the changes in the VAT system would come into force from 2001. I have registered that neither the Progress Party nor the Right then made a proposal to postpone such a reform or asked for a separate big message in this connection. The current government acceded before Bondevik’s government presented its proposal on VAT reform. The Declaration of Accession already warned that the Government would modernise the VAT system so that goods and services would be treated equally. The revised national budget for 2000 announced that proposals for a VAT reform would be presented together with the 2001 budget. Nor did the Right and Advance Party propose that the matter be postponed or that a separate message be submitted. The representative Foss raised questions. on health studios. Firstly, there is a fairly broad mention of the relationship to sport in the proposition. Secondly, it is clear from the proposition that activities providing services which are not specifically excluded fall within the general rule. But I also refer to the mention of sport, which states that organised sport is not subject to VAT through the sport movement. The representative Foss also raised questions about legal activities and questions about self-employment. Now, the representative Foss has his own ability to redefine his question in retrospect if he records that the question might have been somewhat unlucky. But the answer is what the representative, Mr. Enoksen, had to say: if the business is large and has its own legal business, or if the business is small and buys legal services, it is such that you will get a deduction from the value added tax, and it therefore does not put you in a different financial situation. It will also be a practical question of how to organise it. What makes a significant difference, on the other hand, is that a non-VAT law firm can today deduct input VAT, for example: for cleaning services performed in the establishment, while e.g. a hairdresser subject to the VAT system can make similar deductions, so there are probably different points that go in different directions for these different businesses. Questions have been raised about transitional arrangements. There is always a problem with new reforms that there are complex issues associated with introducing something new. Following a balance between the considerations of the establishment of a transitional regime, it has been found to be very difficult to design a mechanism to safeguard all the interests concerned, to stop investment, to distort competition, etc. And based on an overall assessment of the competitive disadvantages that may arise, the possibilities that one has to counteract them, as well as the fundamental and practical problems that the introduction of such a scheme will entail, the Government has come to the conclusion that it will not propose to introduce a transitional arrangement. Let me remind you that when Sweden and Denmark implemented the corresponding reform of the VAT system in 1991 and 1978 respectively, transitional arrangements were not in place. I would also like to point out that there is a false picture of the VAT reform when Hagen and Petersen state that the duty obligation would lead to so-called ‘strong deterioration’ in the framework conditions of the enterprises that will be subject to the levy. In this case, they do not have the right to deduct input VAT from businesses, and the Government has proposed a low rate of VAT of 12 p.m., among others. on passenger transport and overnight accommodation. The expansion of the VAT range will mean that the majority of the business that has paid VAT every year will be better achieved by the effect of deducting VAT on acquisitions. This is due to the fact that the prices of many services can decrease excluding VAT by reducing the cost of service activities by entering into the VAT system. VAT reform has been announced for more than ten years by various governments, and the proposed reform is well prepared. It is therefore high time that VAT became a more general consumption charge, as it is supposed to be, and that we get a VAT system that corresponds to the systems in other countries. It is now high time to do the most necessary modernisation of the VAT system and not postpone the matter, as Hagen and Petersen have now come to this conclusion – it was not seen that they raised questions when the case was dealt with in the context of the national budget for 2000 and the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e580	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e583	It's not going to be right even if you repeat a wrong statement twice. It is not true that we have previously been satisfied with examining this in the budget. In fact, the Bondevik government said it would present a matter, a proposition or a message, it doesn't matter, for itself, before Easter – I expect the Minister of Finance to know that we don't deal with the budget until Easter – and we were satisfied with such a procedure. So my specific questions: this is actually about whether the case is adequately clarified. The finance minister says he treats the health studios, whether they should be sports or not, under the chapter on sports. No, it's not mentioned there. That's what my question concerns. Where did he get that? I can ask the question in a slightly different way. It's not to turn me away from any question, as the finance minister suggested, but to try to get him to answer. Is health studios sport if they are owned by the sports movement, e.g. Norway's Hockey Association, Norway's Friidrechtsbund, etc., or is it if they are own limited liability companies, without such ownership, that they cannot be exempted? That was basically the question I invited the Minister of Finance to comment on. I could add another question: what is the reason why there is no refund of additional VAT on rail public transport in cities outside the NSB, since it is so well thought out, thoroughly investigated and heard?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e592	In the case of the Railways, estimates show that, inter alia: due to investment, the transition to the new system will result in a reasonably satisfactory outcome, in order to ensure that this is taken into account. With regard to the issue of VAT on sporting activities, I must be allowed to refer the representative to a broad review on pages 137 to 141 of the proposal, which includes: are referred to as non-sports activities. Of course, not least the question of commercial activity here will be absolutely central.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e599	In order to get the Minister of Finance to answer the first question raised by the representative Foss. The VAT compensation system, I think, needs to be asked in a slightly different way, because it is trying to ignore the realities of that relationship. In our then State Secretary Eide of the Ministry of Finance wrote a letter stating that the Bondevik government would, of course, include VAT compensation rules when a new proposal for an extension of VAT was made. Lawyers were used as an example. To illustrate, you can take a different relationship. Today, many IT companies provide services to Norwegian municipalities. It is also reasonable for Norwegian municipalities in some areas to do what private business does on a larger and larger scale, namely ‘outsource’, i.e. purchasing services from enterprises specialising in this area. It is the same as the Minister of Health now says to do in Health-Norway – that there must be a functional distribution between hospitals and specialise in some areas. What will now happen is that if an IT company is to be able to deliver a product to the municipality, they must be 23 pst. more reasonable than the local authority’s own production of such a service. And our question to the Minister of Finance is: Why has the Government not gone deeper into the VAT compensation rules that will arise as a result of a new reform? Have you gone beyond the assumption of the Bondevik government that this had to be seen in context, or are you going to follow up on this in an additional proposition – or what are the thoughts of the Minister of Finance at that point?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e610	This question was quite a different question from the one asked by the representative Foss, and therefore, naturally, a rather different answer is given. It is quite right that for activities outside the scope of the levy, this self-regulatory activity will, of course, become a topical issue, not least in the area of the local government sector. It is true, as the representative Burnde here points out, that for the municipalities, for the enterprises for which no VAT compensation scheme has been established, there will be advantages in operating the business under their own control. In relation to the proposition, the Government has not proposed changes to the VAT compensation system. We have no current plans to propose changes to it, and that means that for those companies that according to the proposition will have benefits by their own regime over the purchase of services, the issue that Børge Burnde is travelling is most topical.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e619	I can also read page 139 and forward in the proposition. But I do not understand that the Minister of Finance may have done so, because where are the activities of health studios mentioned on these pages? So it's 300,000 members, and then the Minister of Finance answers that this is where the barrier to sporting activities between commercial and non-commercial activities goes. No, it doesn't. Rosenborg can sell tickets for its matches – still in Tippeliga – without VAT. It's not a deficit business, it has to be said. It's not a deficit business at all, it's a commercial business. I'm not going to go any further with examples from this or that football game, but it's pretty big shops. It has to be said. But the activities of physical birth in a health studio, wall wall with football stadium, even in the football stadium's own premises, must be subject to VAT. Why? There's nothing on page 139 and the following sides. I give the Minister of Finance a third chance to give an in-depth answer to that, as the matter is so well explained. This is about whether the case has been adequately clarified, and I used a few examples. I think the Minister of Finance's lack of response has fully demonstrated that the matter has not been adequately clarified. Then I would like to ask the following question: An overall Oslo City Council has been visiting various committees and providing figures to prove that Oslo Sporvejer will lose approximately. Forty-five million. kr in the case of non-refundable VAT. The Oslo Workers' Party has also been behind it. Does the Ministry of Finance disagree with these figures?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e633	Since the representative did not find it satisfactory with a reference to pages 137 to 141, I have to be allowed to specify it further. The review is on page 141, first column, at the bottom where it says: «In the proposal for a new Section 5a, second subparagraph, No. 7, cf. Chapter 7.2.12.5 provides for the placing on the market of rights to use premises, installations, etc. for the exercise of sporting activities, the fee exemption relating to immovable property shall not apply. Thus, a fee shall be levied as a starting point for the sale of tickets, annual tickets, lift tickets, green fees, etc. for swimming pools, training studios, slabs, tennis courts, golf courses, etc. The Ministry will propose that this fee obligation should not include the use of such premises, installations, etc. under the title of sports law and in the context of activity offers to members, etc., but that these should be exempted under the proposal of Section 5, first paragraph, No. 1 (g) above. This implies, for example, that a sports club should not charge VAT when trading the right to use the club's swimming pool, slum or tennis court, etc. However, it is a prerequisite for this tax exemption that the turnover does not occur in significant competition with registered traders having similar turnover, as stated above. proposal for Section 5, second paragraph.’» As regards questions relating to Rosenborg, the following sections follow: ‘In contrast to the sample, the Ministry assumes that tickets for sporting events should generally be exempted from the scope of the fee, i.e. that there should also be no charge for ticket turnover for major sporting events. In its assessment, the Ministry stressed that other issues of demarcation and distortion of competition could arise, inter alia, in relation to other recreational activities and entertainment events. The Ministry therefore proposes a new provision on exemptions for the right to attend sporting events in Section 5(b) of the First subparagraph of the VAT Act. 5.’» I suppose this would inform the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e653	The expectations were that this would be a debate primarily on the procedures for dealing with VAT reform. I'm going to focus on that first. I think the posts of the representative Per-Kristian Foss have been marked by the fact that he could imagine that the old government had been sitting. Then we get to take it with a smile that during this debate he has characterized it as the Bondevik parties in the government of Enoch. It is right that the previous government had put forward a multi-step approach to the VAT reform, and thus a broader separate discussion in Stortinget about this before one had gone into implementation. It wasn't like that. It is a political reality that we were given a change of government, that is what we are dealing with, and it is also a political reality that the new government has chosen this treatment procedure for the VAT reform. It's also so that the center parties have chosen to go into this in the treatment, with the perhaps understandable reason that over a few years we've been working on it so much that we feel able to have a treatment now. And then I think about the treatment that has, after all, been in a government apparatus on these questions. With regard to reality, and since it has become part of the debate here, I think it is an important point to bring forward what the representative, Mr Halvorsen, also stressed, namely the need for and positiveness of this reform, that we have a turnaround that makes all the new consumption areas that are now growing meet with VAT, as the goods do. It may be the most important part of this reform. Because this is the country's main source of funding, we will also ensure this as a still important, and perhaps even more important, source of funding for the public sector and the state in the future. It is important to bear in mind that the international trend in taxation is towards more indirect taxation of consumption and less on labour input and corporate taxation. It's actually part of such a larger and wider conversion this needs to be understood. This VAT system will continue to be an important source of revenue for the country in the future, with a broader basis than we have experienced so far. In the forthcoming budgetary negotiations, the central parties have put some very clear premises on what we are going to do. We have said that it is essential that we have an impact on the views and changes we have on VAT reform, and it is quite clear to everyone that this is an area that we do not believe is the basis for the major negotiations. One is half the food tax, the other is that the center parties have said that we want to keep travel life, culture and public transport outside the system. What has not been mentioned in the debate so far, and which I would like to have brought in – and that is perhaps where I am most critical of the Minister of Finance Schjött-Pedersen has presented here, and which I think he agrees with even in the heart – is that the government, when we take such a major reform operation in the VAT system, does not propose to completely eliminate the investment tax, which is now hollowed out and quite sporadically, even though it is still involved in large amounts of money. In a modern VAT system, such a fragmented investment tax instrument that is currently in existence does not belong at home. And there the center parties have also said that we're placing the decisive emphasis on the removal of it now. It means that we will be able to have a forward-looking and good system if there is to be a solution based on the sketches that the center parties have drawn up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e668	The President would point out that this matter is a return of Ot.prp. No 2 on VAT reform and not on negotiations. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 394]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e678	Then the President assumes that those who are to be present are present and that voting can thus begin.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e698	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Rikam, representative of the Parliament, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 19 October 2000: ‘The Government requests that proposals be submitted by the Government that the requirement for general study competence be completed at secondary school.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e713	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 19 October 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to return as soon as possible to the issue of investment funds in occupational retirement provision and related changes to the rules of operation, so that changes in line with the recommendations of the Competition Board relating to life insurance business rules can be implemented.’;» The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and Mr. The Bastisen will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e733	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 19 October 2000: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit legislative proposals opening up access to parallel deposit and benefit schemes in the same enterprise.’ The President understands that the Labour Party and the Socialist Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e752	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 19 October 2000: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget with an assessment of the contribution pension at the top of a defined benefit pension.’ Here too, the President assumes that the Labour Party and the Socialist Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e771	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 19 October 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to Section 5-1 on general rules for the deposit plan in relation to the announced proposal for amendments to the Entrepreneurship Act in order to adequately fulfill that intention.’ Here too, the Labour Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e790	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 19 October 2000: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to close the scheme for new members so that those currently in a benefit scheme may have the right to remain in the scheme until retirement.’ Here is the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and Mr. The bastese announced that they would vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e810	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Lars Gunnar Lie on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left, transmitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 19 October 2000: «The Government is asked by the Government in the context of the Revised National Budget 2001 to submit proposals for the creation and extent of a fund in order to promote increased knowledge of capital formation, raise awareness and understanding of business ethics and also research in these areas.» Here the Progress Party and the Right have announced subsidiary support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-11-03.ana.ud918e828	The proposal by Carl I. Hagen and Jan Petersen in Document No. 8:16 for 2000–2001 is addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: «The story asks the Government to withdraw Ot.prp. [[2000-2001]] No 2 and promote the necessary additional propositions to St.prp. [[2000-2001]] No 1 as such withdrawal makes necessary.’;»
