ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e118	The representatives of Vidar Bjørnstad, Haakon Blankenborg, Brother Yngve Rahm, Gunn Karin Gjul and Siri Frost Sterri, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e156	At the request of the Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 20 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party 50 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Christian People's Party 20 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e167	Let me begin by thanking the members of the Committee for an orderly budgetary procedure within the Committee. It's a little inspiring, and I feel it's almost like an obligation race and a game for the gallery, when we're about to hold a plenary debate on the Social Committee's budgetary position for Frameworks 15 and 16, a budgetary position in which the Committee has had no real influence. The financial position has not only established the framework, but has significantly determined the amount of the amounts, both in chapters and in items, down to the amount of DKK 100 000. In addition, the budgetary conciliation has bound up and required the parties to the settlement to vote in favour of the Government's proposal on chapters and items not covered by the budgetary settlement. The results of the work of the Social Committee on the budget for several weeks show that the Committee, by means of the conciliation parties, has moved only at about 100 %. $14 million. DKK of a total of NOK 195 billion for the limits of 15 and 16. Like the other specialist committees, the Social Committee has developed considerable expertise in its field, and the Committee also has several members with a high professional background and extensive experience in the field of health and social affairs, who have been able to make themselves visible in this way. If the budgetary procedure is to continue in the future as today, the Committee on Budgets should, in my view, take sole responsibility for the budgetary procedure, and the committees should be exempted from this work and rather spend time and effort on other important procedures. The consultation of the technical committees, on which the committees spend a long time, is now almost irrelevant, and I find it disrespectful of the various groups invited to be consulted, as the budget is set out in detail by the Financial Committee at an early stage. I regret to say that, with regard to the 2001 State Budget, the Labour Party and the Centre parties, who want to present themselves as those who stand for real solidarity, have made a budgetary settlement that most affected those of our fellow citizens who had really needed solidarity in practice, in the form of a better economy and better health and care services. I am thinking here of our minimum pensioners, of the disabled, disabled and chronically ill, who with this budget will have a far tougher economic everyday life next year. Taxes on disease have increased further. In the last four years, the tax on disease has increased by over 40 pst. Then I find it timely to ask the settlement parties the following question: Is this to show solidarity with the weak? What is the value of such solidarity? The consequences of this budget for the low-paid, for example, minimum pensioners and chronically ill, will be that we get an increase in the excess prescriptions in our pharmacies because patients do not make the self-payment to take out their vital drugs. Unfortunately, the budgetary conciliation has also not led to a better operating situation for our hospitals. I do not think it will be possible for hospitals in 2002 to increase their health care output by 2 pst, as provided in the budget, without leading to significant operating deficits. However, I – and the party – hope that the hospitals, in the vacuum year we now go into our hospitals, will take more into account the treatment of patients than the budget balance. In this context, I would like to point out that the Progress Party has recently adopted a significant allocation for the purchase of hospital services abroad. This may help some of the patients who have been on a waiting list for a long time and who can now receive treatment abroad in 2001. I greeted with pleasure the decision at the National Labour Party meeting, which led to a state acquisition of the hospitals. I assume that the acquisition takes place as soon as possible. In this context, the Progress Party supports the proposal of the County Committee in the South-Trondelag that, from 2001, the State will take over the operation of hospitals in the county and will also take responsibility for the RIT 2000. With the state acquisition of the hospitals, I hope that it will be possible to obtain more predictable funding for the hospitals. This can be done by increasing input-based funding by up to 80 p.p., paid directly to hospitals. As indicated by the suspension, the Party of Progress has not found the allocation of Framework 15 to be satisfactory from the point of view of the Party's priorities for health care, but has included in the suspension of the Party's alternative budget for Frameworks 15 and 16. In its alternative budget, the Progress Party has this time prioritised the following areas: care for the elderly, hospital funding, hospital equipment, psychiatry, cancer care, drug care and, above all, medical research. In the alternative budget of the Progress Party, Framework 15 has an increase of a total of DKK 2.1 billion. We are all happy with the old-age plan that is now being implemented, but we must prevent the old-age plan from becoming only a housing reform, and ensure that the professional content to cater for the individual user is followed up in a sufficiently good manner, which the old-age plan, at my discretion, does not do at the moment. The manning in our nursing homes and nursing homes is too low, with an average care factor of 0.70, not much higher than it was in the 1970s. At the time, the age range for patients was approx. The age range is between 70 and 75 years, whereas the age range today is 85 years and over. In addition to increasing age, more and more of our older ill intensive care is becoming strenuous in our nursing homes for a long time. This requires professional expertise, both in the case of nurses and in the case of medical services. The Progress Party proposes, in its alternative budget, to increase the staffing of public health homes by 1 000 auxiliary care posts. Furthermore, the Progress Party proposes in its alternative budget to increase the 2001 input-based funding component from 50 pst. until 60 p.m., as such an increase according to hospital opinions would lead to a further significant increase in capacity. The Progress Party proposes to remove the crypt, which is a handicap for increased treatment and, in fact, a rationale for healthcare. Furthermore, in its alternative budget, the Progress Party proposes to reduce the proportion of county councils in the case of medical-technical equipment from 40 to 10 pst. Unfortunately, it has been found that the county councils have not been able to obtain their own share of equipment. Hospitals have therefore not been able to acquire life-saving medical-technical equipment of good quality in the last two years. According to tasks The Progress Party has obtained from the hospitals, there would only be a need this year to spend 700 million. to medical and technical equipment to be up-to-date with developments in this field. The Progress Party is extremely concerned about the follow-up to the Psychiatric Plan. Reports of growing problems are constantly being recorded, both in adult psychiatry and in particular in paediatric and juvenile psychiatry. Children and adolescents in psychiatric queues are unworthy and irresponsible. In some municipalities, for example Oslo, psychiatric services even seem to be being built up. I refer here to the construction of departments in Gaustad and proposals for the closure of offers at Ullevål Hospital and Dikemark Hospital. The Ministry should re-examine and look at the psychiatry plan for the Municipality of Oslo to see if this effort should be increased, modified and corrected. In my opinion, it should be an indisputable task for the ministry to go in and look at all the different escalation plans that the Stortinget has adopted, to see if the map still matches the terrain, which I unfortunately do not think it does, either in the case of psychiatry or – not least – in the case of cancer care. The Progress Party has included an increase of 50 million in its alternative budget. NOK 150 million to the psychiatry in the municipalities. DKK to psychiatry in the counties and 100 million. psychiatry in children and adolescents. In the case of cancer care, none of us should accept that we should have waiting lists for both primary and post-treatment. In particular, there appears to be a significant lack of radiation therapy, not least in the case of reliever therapy. The size has ranked primary treatment and alleviating treatment in line with its opinions and decisions. As I see it, there is a lack of jet engines that is the main reason for the waiting lists, but also a lack of professional personnel. Both parts should be able to do something about it if you wanted to. This is a priority group of patients who should also be able to receive treatment abroad when capacity in their own country does not extend. In the alternative budget of the Progress Party, cancer treatment has been proposed to increase by 100 million. kr, e.g. for the purchase of two new jet engines in 2001. The Advance Party is pleased that it is finally possible to start drugrelated treatment for heroin users, even though it took too long before we started. It could have been done several years earlier if one had followed the proposals of the Progress Party of January 1992. Norwegian medical research is largely back on an international scale. In a majority comment from the Party of Advances, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party in the Budget-Inst. S. No 11 for 1999-2000, the following was stated: ‘Unfortunately, it is a fact that public support for Norwegian medical clinical research is at a low level compared to the countries with which it is natural to compare. The Committee therefore considers that a much larger proportion of the appropriations allocated to the Research Council should be devoted to clinical research — not research to improve the basis for policy-making and national management tasks.’.» Our Scandinavian neighbouring country Sweden and Denmark spend much more money on basic research and clinical research than Norway does – Sweden as many as three times as much and Denmark as twice as much. It is particularly important to maintain and extend clinical research at our regional hospitals, but this costs money, money that the regional hospitals do not currently have. It is, in my opinion, possible for our public hospitals to use more research resources from our business, especially from the pharmaceutical industry, which both Sweden and Denmark do in large quantities, but as Norway for some strange reason does not find it opportunistic to do. The ringing effect of establishing stronger cooperation with the pharmaceutical industry in research is that it can also start the establishment of pharmaceutical industry in Norway, an industry that is almost absent; the one we had is now moving out. In recent years, there has been almost a flight from our medical research communities due to a lack of access to resources. This has gradually become a serious problem that needs to be addressed if our medical research environments are not to be completely debilitated. Today, we have a total of 50 unoccupied research positions at our universities. In its alternative budget, the Progress Party has prioritised medical research and has committed 72 million. kr. Finally, I would like to address the proposals on which the Advance Party is with other parties and the party's own proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e237	The representative Alvheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e240	The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health budget is now approaching NOK 200 billion. We get a lot of well-being for many in Norway for this money. The work of the Social Committee on the budget is important and comprehensive. We point to what we think works well, and not least where there is a need for clear improvements. When the Progress Party points out that the Social Committee has too little influence, they have to thank themselves for having such an unrealistic policy that budgetary settlements with others become impossible. For me, it is quite clear that the budget in our area must be seen in the context of the rest of the economy. In my view, we are responsible for pointing out how taxpayers' money can be used in a good way. With the large amount of public money we have in this sector, it is pointless not to make demands for good money and high quality offers. We have to, as the Health Minister says, organize hospitals better to give patients a better offer for the money. And we must, as the Minister for Social Affairs says, take seriously that there is a suspicion of organized crime using disability. The simplest of all political measures is to grasp deeply into the oil fund and to have as a philosophy that what happens, it happens! I am proud that we have a government that puts its interests ahead of short-term political gain. The agreement with the centre parties continues to ensure stability and continued good Community solutions in the country. The 2001 budget follows on from the four comprehensive action plans on the elderly, psychiatry, cancer and hospital equipment. With such extensive efforts over time, one would not believe that there was room for further improvement of the joint solutions in the sector, but this budget shows something else. Efforts for the elderly are reinforced by an additional amount of almost DKK 4 billion. We want to force the municipal authorities to launch some measures and add 70 million more to the psychiatry. kr. The budget has taken action to balance differences. What gives the biggest difference in Norway today is participation or not in the labour market. The right to work is grounded, and we have to take it seriously. In countries with high wage differentials and where no policy instruments are used to ensure high employment, there are many poor ones. In the U.S., there are approx. 20 pst. of adults and 30 pst. of the poor children. It's not like that in our country. But we have to take it very seriously that someone is going to be hanging after in the development of wealth. The most likely thing that will help them most in Norway is to enable their parents to participate in the work of some 70,000 poor children. Work yields income. However, the demands of working life for efficiency can be demanding. We have to take on board the fact that there is an exclusion from the labour market. The social partners know a lot about this, and they have to take responsibility for it. It is a prerequisite that employment itself sees the value of caring for the employees. It's also about attitudes to give people new opportunities. But society should and can contribute more. In order to bring people into the labour market, it is important to bring about a better and more appropriate reintroduction. There is a need to improve the ability to combine work and social security. We need to step up efforts against those groups that have difficulty getting back to work. If you enable this option, multiple entries into the social security system will be added. In the State budget, we focus on strengthening efforts by looking at people to get them to participate in the labour market, on job training courses — and other measures. We can ensure single caregivers education and work training. We will make it easier from next year to cover transportation to work in the event of sickness and disability. If you are able to do your job, but not your way, such a public scheme will provide the best solution for both the employee and the employer, as well as for social security costs. It is also very important to focus on the training of patients in order to improve the quality of life for people, the possibility of resuming the tasks of daily life and perhaps returning to work more quickly. Often, training is essential to maintain full or partial professional activity. It is important to stress that not everyone is healthy enough to work and that the safety net has been developed to ensure people who, for various reasons, are unable to do so. A critical review of the arrangements is the best investment to ensure the public’s security for those who need it. Drug users are a group that needs special measures. I am pleased that the Minister for Social Affairs is handing out a hand to the heavy drug addicts who are in line so that they can receive medically assisted treatment. This can give strongly overdosed people hope for a new future and new quality of life. Prevention and work to increase the number of drug-free people are, of course, not opposed to helping the weakest. It's actually true in this area, too, to have multiple thoughts in your head at the same time. We need more to work in the care sector. Kindergartens, school leisure schemes, continuing education and active labour market policies are all important elements for bringing more hands into work. The entire Committee is committed to a reinforced personnel action plan. I expect that a clear grip will be taken on the ‘right person in the right place’ when the hospitals will be released. From Stortinget's side, we have long pointed out organisational shortcomings in many of our hospitals. It concerns clear management, rational operation and organisation, good use of capacity and improved patient information. We now have expectations that a new organisation of hospitals will give patients more. It is very interesting that the County Committee of Southern Trøndelag has asked the Department not only to take over the development of the RIT 2000 in Trondheim, but also to have a ‘sales contract’ for the operation of hospitals RIT and Orkdal Sanitätsforenings Sjukehus. Where this is considered appropriate, it has a background of strong interaction between operations and deployment. When the County Committee wants this, I also interpret it as a trust that the National Council of Tune and the Department will have a good dialogue with the county council, the hospital management and the employees' organisations. I am pleased that Stortinget provides broad support for state responsibility for the operation of the hospitals in the county already now. The negotiations on ownership shall take place in parallel with the negotiations with the other counties. I notice that the expansion of RIT 2000 has strong support in Stortinget, and that a unanimous increase like me, is now impatient to get the project up and up. The size of the building will be assumed to reach the latest in the autumn of 2001. Middle Norway needs a forward-looking and modern university clinic. If patients are to experience the free hospital choice that they have now been promised for a few years, hospitals in the regions must appear as fully competitive in order to have a future. Health policy is both about the security of the population and about the competence of the regions. Health is, I would say, one of the most important pillars of regional policy. I am very pleased that there is now the connection to a stepping up of medical research. It is important to strengthen the Norwegian environment knowledgeably, not least through the very dynamic development of biotechnology and genetic engineering. We must acquire knowledge and take part in the opportunities, but also draw the ethical boundaries through active regulation of the law. The government of Stoltenberg has put in place a fixed medical system. I believe that it is a matter of reforming the hospital system in line with the wishes of the Stortinget and the needs of the patients. I also look forward to the Government promoting a growth report on drug policy and an action plan for social and economic security.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e289	The budget we are going to adopt today has a framework of almost 200 billion kroner, or a little bit more precise: over 195 284 million. kr. These figures, which may seem inconceivably large, give an indication of the extent to which the demand for resources and resource use are related to health and care. A large proportion of society's total resources are used in this area. It is our responsibility to manage this money properly. A key prerequisite for the rational use of our financial resources is that they are large enough, and that they are managed with predictability that those who work and plan in the health and social field have a certain degree of security for the financial framework from year to year. In this context, it is particularly important to point to the three major health plans adopted by the Storting in this period: the cancer plan, the psychiatry plan and the hospital equipment plan. These are important and large areas that have been neglected to some extent in the past, and there was a very necessary effort on which the Stortingen assembled in these areas. It must be a priority task to stick to these plans, so that there is no uncertainty about the willingness of the Storting to follow up its decisions in these areas. The Christian People's Party was thus concerned about the government's draft budget for the psychiatry plan, and we are pleased that in the budget agreement we have increased by 70 million. Of these 50 million kroner. SEK to strengthen the psychiatry in the municipalities and SEK 20 million. ed paediatric psychiatry. The Psychiatric Plan is an escalating plan, the increase in activity to date suggests that the 70 million. kr, which is the result of the budgetary conciliation, will come along well and will be used in a reasonable manner. The budgetary agreement between the Labour Party and the Centre parties led to a number of larger and smaller increases in the social and health budget. These will also be commented on in later articles from the Christian People's Party. I can only mention an increase of 35 million. SEK to training institutions, and SEK 26 million. kr. to the 33 host municipalities of the former large HVPU institutions in Norway. In order to ensure full operation of the Glittracline, it's plus 10 million. kr. to this. As far as voluntary organisations are concerned, I have noticed the Workers' Party's leader's strongly decreasing comment on these at the Workers' Party's national meeting. The Minister of Social Affairs, on the other hand, expressed a positive attitude towards non-governmental organisations in the spontaneous question. Unfortunately, the draft budget seems to indicate that the party leader has greater influence than the Minister of Social Affairs. This was a matter that was absolutely necessary to rectify in the budget agreement, and we were fortunately able to see through, among other things. for an addition of 2 million. kr for information measures and prevention of unwanted pregnancy and 1 million. kr to AAN. In addition, voluntary drug prevention was reinforced by 4 million. kr, subsidies for drug users, etc. with 6 million dollars. DKK and grants to non-governmental organisations and private foundations in drug treatment of more than 6 million. kr. It is this budget line that, among other things: The Gospel Centres, the Foundation KRAFT, the Blue Cross" Social Department, the Salvation Army and the Day Centre for the Follow-up of Methadone Users T5 in Arendal sort below. These are relatively small increases in relation to the heavy totals in this budget, which the Committee's chairman also pointed out. But when we see how big results these institutions achieve with their limited financial resources, and when we see what it means for individuals who get help, then it's really worth moving on to these few million. At least two problems have arisen in the reorganization of the Directorate of Drugs. One is that in the conversion with a view to bringing more responsibility and authority out to a local level, the part of the resources transferred to ‘closer municipalities’, as expressed in the budget proposal, is unfortunately exposed to a significant loss during the relocation process. I assume that the department will follow closely, so that this does not lead to a weakening of the prevention work in the drug field. The aim was, of course, to strengthen the work by bringing skills and tasks into the districts. I expect, as I said, that the department will follow closely the developments in this area. Another problem related to the reorganisation seems to be that restrictions are attached to the allocation of funds under heading 70. An overall committee is concerned whether organisational requirements in this context will exclude institutions organised as foundations. The Committee does not wish such organisational conditions to prevent support for good projects, even if they are based on a foundation, such as the Marita Foundation. The Labour Party and the Advance Party ask in the nomination of the Government to take the initiative that GMP specialists may prescribe drugs such as methadone and buprenorphine for substance abusers. Such specialists have no specific competence in this area, and experience from other countries may indicate that this type of prescription does not lead to the desired goal, namely, to end drug injection. I would like to challenge the Minister of Social Affairs to give his assessment of this relationship. For hospitals, waiting list problems have been a recurring phenomenon. The waiting lists were last debated when Stortinget decided to grant an extra DKK 1 billion for foreign treatment just to increase capacity and thus reduce waiting lists. But now hospitals themselves are on the waiting list – for state takeover. There's no secret that there's a majority in the Storting for a state acquisition of the hospitals, but it's still not known what this will mean. In this context, it is therefore somewhat curative in my view that a majority of the Committee asks the Ministry to consider whether the State should enter into an agreement with one of its counties on the assumption of the responsibilities for the development and operation of hospitals in this county earlier than for all the other counties. I notice that both parties that are in favour of and parties that are opposed to the state acquisition of the hospitals find it in their order that one assesses the state takeover of the development and operational responsibilities of the hospitals, at least one state. The debate on state ownership of hospitals must now enter a new phase. The question is not who should own and operate the hospitals, but how the hospitals should be owned and operated. This is the future-oriented and relevant issue now. Finally, a few words about research and the Influenza Centre in Bergen, which formally belongs to the University, but which in its function as an international influenza centre is linked to the World Health Organisation, as is the corresponding centre of the State Institute of Public Health, and which has tasks far beyond normal university functions. An overall committee has therefore asked the Government to secure the influenza centre funding in the State budget. This year, the Committee reiterates a note from its budgetary position last year, which reads as follows: ‘The Committee suggests that increasing problems with both ‘old’ and ‘new’ infectious diseases, partly caused by multi-resistant microbes, indicate that medical microbiology and infectious medicine will become increasingly important in the future. The Committee therefore considers it important to maintain and strengthen the small and vulnerable Norwegian research communities in this area and calls on the Ministry to contribute to this.’» It is important that this professional environment, which is small and vulnerable, but which contains our top expertise in an important international field, is not weakened. It is particularly important in the context of the continuing risk of global influenza epidemics. Infection is the main cause of disease and death, also in our time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e332	I'll start by being a little backward-looking. Someone might say that it's only natural considering that there's a conservative who speaks, but that's not the case. My point is that most of it has become so much better over the almost 20 years I've been here when we talk about health policy. Because soon it looks like the patient really gets put in the center, it's no longer just a mouthache. In fact, in these 20 years, we've gone from guardian management to user management. We have gone away from top management through framework funding, central plans and watertight bulkheads between the states, with great faith that only politicians, civil servants and health professionals can and know everything, and over to governance from below, with patients' right to health care and hospital selection. This is a very joyful and necessary development, which now all seem to be involved, perhaps with a slightly varying enthusiasm. We've got competition, and we've got user power. Of course, this does not apply only to patients in somatic health care, but equally to disabled and elderly people who need different care and care services, and to psychiatry. Contest launching is an instrument for giving users, patients – disabled and elderly – more influence and power over the provision of services. In order to be entitled to impose requirements — including quality requirements — a choice must be made between different operators. Only then will the user influence become real. Users and their associations make demands; they have become a counter-expertise for bureaucrats and politicians. That's also a good sign. Therefore, the right to treatment or health care was not considered to be in the long term either. Therefore, Stortinget made the decision it made in relation to the treatment of the Patient Rights Act. So the question is how does the department follow up the Storting's decision on a new patient rights law. The regulations that Health Minister Tønne has now issued, I would say, are significant improvements to the regulatory proposal that Højbråten, his predecessor, sent out. It's a long step in the right direction. But I must say that the current Minister of Health and his Department also interprets the provisions in a restrictive way. The majority in the United Kingdom thought — all were well aware of this, although there were slightly different views on the right to health care — that in priority group III too, some of the patients would be covered by the right to health care. It's not the department. I think that the regulations also set very strict criteria, three cumulative criteria, in order to be able to benefit at all from the right to health care, whether they belong to Group I or Group II in the so-called Pay II Committee. Good documentation has also been required for the treatment to be administered. It might sound natural, but when you know that actually 70 pst. Of all that's happening in medicine, it's not well documented, but it's based on experience -- good experience -- you can at least, I think, be wise to ask questions about whether it's too strict to demand good evidence, because there's not so much difference in the so-called school medicine and alternative medicine. Very much based on experience, but good experience. When the Right is not entirely satisfied with the right to treatment, it is linked to the fact that we were in the minority when it was about how to legislate. I still feel confident that the future will give us the right time for treatment, a personal, individual deadline, and that there must of course also be consequences of breaking this deadline. Because it cannot in the long run be the information that the Minister of Health now wants the doctor to provide the patient with, when he can expect treatment to be given, should not be binding on health care. But it's actually in the new regulations. But what kind of right is it going to be? The majority of the population would also want patients to be able to sue a broken deadline, but if that deadline is not binding, yes, what is the patient left with? I think we're wise to come back to these things. After the Right View, the fixed system stumbled at first. Now, however, it is to be launched from 1 June next year. And I would say that so many of the Right's objections to former Minister of Health Hernes' original proposals have been cleared up by the way in the process that has been going on since then. But still there's a big question if it creates more problems than it solves. However, it is my hope that the fixed medical system can become an unbureaucratic and flexible system, so that those who really need medical attention can have better and easier access to the doctors. Is there an exemption from Tore Tønne and the Workers' Party adding with its otherwise joyful decision to take over the hospitals? Will there be an exemption if the Minister of Health is to have ‘direct line, clear control and full control’, as stated in the Evening Post on 2 November this year? We believe that the centralisation of political responsibility for hospitals at state level must be combined with the release that gives the individual hospital extensive local freedom to operate professionally without political and bureaucratic override. In this way I fully agree with Are Næss, who said that the question is ‘how to own and operate hospitals’. And with state responsibility for hospitals, it should be possible to put an end to gambling and disclaimer between administrative levels. It would be easier to be safe on it if the Workers' Party had also taken a full step and went in to cancel the County Council. I guess that's also a time question. But it's a pleasure that at least it's going in the right direction. The responsibility is now placed where it belongs – in the case of staging and government. But public responsibility for providing health services and checking that quality is high does not mean public responsibility for producing health services, as the Right sees it. Therefore, we will let go of private activities within the framework of a publicly funded health service. We want to facilitate competition between private and public owned hospitals. And I stress that we are followers of state hospitals despite – not because of – the operation of the Rikshospitalet and Radium Hospital so far. Our model is a national responsibility, but local freedom, freedom and competition. We want a national hospital plan that defines the functional distribution between the hospitals and a separate hospital allocation that consists of a framework and a unit price, or input-driven financing. So the challenge for the Minister of Health must be: Don't create a Stalinist system. Listen to Jan Grund and others from the Hallandsvik Committee – avoid detail management. They point out that responsibility must be decentralised as far as possible and that government governance must include priorities and functional allocation. This is also in agreement with the Right. The most important thing is that hospitals get a freer position in relation to their owner, says Jan Grund. We fully agree with that. Fortunately, in the case of the Cancer Plan, most things go according to plan, but, as the committee leader was also involved, the radiation therapy capacity and the relief treatment depend on, and it's serious. Therefore, the Right allocations in the Cancer Plan add up to a total of 100 million. kr. The appropriations for public medical research are also related. If the Plan of Cancer is to be a lasting promise for publicly funded research and not just one – I had almost said – breathing in the sieve, a ship's roof, it has to be decided that the allocation of the 100 million. kr for the cancer plan must be permanent, not just a one-off measure. It upsets the Right that the state that owns doesn't seem to have prioritised the Radium Hospital. The hospital should have been the engine of the cancer plan. How can you provide a status report as low as the budget provides for the hospital – they have to reject patients and have too long waiting time – without proposing improvements? The right will allow the hospital to provide for the development of the two radiation therapy machines and improve the resource situation. We're increasing by 70 million. kr. Finally, I would just like to say that it is gratifying that a unanimous committee asks that there be an increase in the efficiency of the procedure for applications for a bladder prescription within the 90-day period. That's all I got. [[The President clubs]] I allow myself to address the proposals that the Right has, either alone or with others, in the budgetary position.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e375	The representative of Höegh has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e378	Norway is one of the richest countries in the world — and we are talking here about the welfare state and the welfare society of Norway, which spend almost SEK 200 billion on the health and social budget per year. years. But not all things are so good anyway. Many things can be corrected and corrected before everyone feels like part of this welfare state. In one of my first speeches on health and social policy here in the Grand Duchy, I called for a general debate in this Chamber on the state of health of the kingdom on a broad basis, where we had a debate on the development of our country across committee boundaries and across sectoral thinking. It could have been interesting to have such a debate, where we had seen how we dispose of the policy in order to achieve the most harmonious and 'healthy' Norway, and how we dispose of both as politicians and as individuals. It is not certain that we just need more money, but perhaps even more time – time to live the ‘good life’, to use from a book title from some years back, a book title that then created some debate. Unfortunately, however, that debate has been quite staggering. Time for consideration, humanity and better distribution — and not only materially, but also social and interpersonal — can be dangerous to say. It's thoughtful and pious, fine words, some will meet it with. Some people will quickly park such an invitation to debate and possibly call it some kind of Ole Brumm communism, but perhaps it's just as good, old-fashioned value conservatism I'm now talking about. No, then it's easier and more secure to fight about crowns and figures – accounting policy is a well-known phenomenon here as well. Of course, accounting is also important, but we have to deal with the reality of the numbers and the problems that lie there. But if it's essentially just that, and it's going to be the repair tasks to be treated and discussed, how far are we going to end up? The repair society is no society for the future. Health and social policy can't just be like a patch over a wound that keeps getting bigger than the patch we're trying to patch it with. It has been said before that poverty is the mother of all disease. We have different types of poverty: material, spiritual and perhaps not least in time. At least time today is a shortcoming. We know that 70,000 children live below what we define as the poverty line. We also know that there is a growing number of children and young people seeking a doctor for both mental and somatic disorders. What does this signal for tomorrow's society, and is that how we want it? As important as a budget account, is there perhaps a time account? But then maybe someone would say that it doesn't use to meet the world so bad-good and old-fashioned, to quote the blessed Kharraase. Maybe so, but evolution at least prompts thought. One has a sense of being a strong health politician — and perhaps also the father of the growing family — when one sees the increase in the number of cancer cases and the development of asthma and allergies. What's going on? And what's the reason for this? At least then it is difficult to understand that it should not be possible to have a little more debate and perhaps also to maintain caution and precautionary principles on, for example, the issue of drugs. food additives – the so-called food make-up debate we now have here in the house. It should be possible to be a little more restrictive and lead were. The fear of a little scouring in the free flow of goods is greater than the doubt about the health consequences that this food make-up may have. The prevention arguments have then been removed, but prevention is more than the Tobacco Damage Council and fruit and vegetables on the lunch table. The same applies to the debate on genetically modified organisms and their use in food. I don't have time to go into this so much now, but I refer to what's in the position on the Biotechnology topic, and that we should also take time to think about it, a moratorium, so that we know more before we possibly open up such foods. Voluntary action is the pillar of civil society, along with what is provided by the public. Are we volunteering? There's a big question mark behind it. Freedom centres are of great importance. We have increased the number of volunteer centres from 86 in 1995 to 236 today. We ask the Committee that, at least out-of-the-box funds in that line of work should be used to give priority to the creation of more centres. And we would have liked to see that there had been more money on it. In the case of the Frisam Contact Forum, I would like to say that there is a forum that should have maximum autonomy, so that it can create and further develop an open dialogue between public and voluntary. Voluntary humanitarian organisations also have a rather tight daily rate and will also be included in the 2001 budget. I'm asking the government to clarify this with state welfare schemes as soon as possible, so we can get back to it and get a clean-up and more predictable situation for these organizations. With regard to the elderly policy, I would first of all like to point out that we have two large-scale messages to be treated equally over the New Year. However, with regard to the material and real continuation of the elderly care and the elderly plan, it needs to be further assessed as regards investment and operation when the final plans of the municipalities become known after the deadline for application expires on 30 June 2001. The so-called "host municipality supplement" has been widely discussed in the context of the State budget and health and social policy. Nor was it adjusted this year for price and cost growth, despite, among other things. The big guy's clear note last year. One now asks the Government to take note of the proposal of a unanimous committee, so that we get not only predictability here, but also proper trust and confidentiality between the state and the municipalities. There has become a little too much tradition that this is never properly put into the budgets. With regard to the supply of mentally impaired people, it is important that there be a housing offer for those who do not yet have it and who want to receive such an offer. But housing offers must not just be a housing reform. There is also a need to ensure the possibility of a social community and an integration that allows a person to enter society in a holistic way and not just to get a friendship. Schools, leisure and work for those who have the opportunity to approach these arenas must be offers that belong to them. Limited use of coercion and power lies in the social services law. 6A. After the reports we have received, it has led to a lower level of coercive use in many municipalities that we were given the chapter of the Social Services Act. And that has led to a greater awareness, not least in relation to alternative care methods, and it delights me the most. But some municipalities are following. Some of these municipalities say it's very expensive to practice cap. 6A in the law. I ask the government to look at this and whether it will be followed up with funds. The interpretation of deafness has been a repetition of the budget. I just want to take one small matter here, and it is my pleasure that there is now an overall committee that says that also close relatives and relatives to deaf people are a resource that should be offered training and further training on interpretation, and that they should also receive some compensation for such interpretation. It must be comparable to personal assistants and the care pay system in other contexts. The provision of disabled students and students is too poor. Last week we were told that there were very poor housing conditions and housing for disabled students. I ask the government to take a closer look at this. We have a case that has taken place in several governments before, and that concerns an offer from the University of Hedmark to students with disabilities. I hope that offer can be looked at again, and that we get a real bet for disabled students and their ability to go further in their studies. Personal assistants for people with disabilities are a good scheme that now has almost 700 users in more than 250 municipalities. But there are several people who want such a scheme, and I hope that it can be followed up next year. More professionals in the health and care sector are an important factor in making this sector work. It is gratifying that we now have a unanimous proposal in today's position that goes to increased recruitment, increased stabilisation and the return of professionals to the profession. And then I would particularly draw attention to better working conditions in relation to, among other things. the tour service. Finally, I just want to say that I might have been a little provocative, but it was in the greatest humility. I think we need to take a serious look at the causes of the health and social issues we have. Increased drug use is not the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e420	In Norway, it has been important to create a comprehensive health service for the whole population, and there has been a common political objective that there should be an offer that is completely independent of the place of residence, age or the economy of the individual. This has been a major success in Norway, more than in most countries. When we've been to the United States with the Social Committee, many of us have met there, just pointed out that we're lucky to have the Scandinavian welfare model, and that there's something you shouldn't let go of. The United States has never been there. Still, this is no obvious. It's not obvious that we have a health care system that essentially takes care of the entire population regardless of age, where you live, or economy. It's not least the increase in the excess of the excess we've had. Despite the fact that on several occasions the Biggest and the majority of the Social Committee have pointed out the concern in an ever-increasing increase in the proportion of people who are self-employed, we have seen an increase. We're left with 4.5 pst. This year, and we've got it under the two different governments we've had. I have noticed that many people have a rhetoric, including the Progress Party, that we should not raise the excesses, but they were also raised when the Progress Party put in the negotiating position and had the opportunity to influence this against the central government at that time. The same thing happened last year, as the Workers' Party had the opportunity to influence the central government at that time, and the middle parties did not use this year's opportunity to give priority so that you do not get higher self-esteem. We now see that more and more of the stakeholder organisations, both the Handicap Association, the FFO and other organisations, have pointed out that this creates problems for a good number of people. There is a poverty among some who make it difficult to use the services, but it seems that there is no willingness in the Storting to take it seriously. We very much regret that. We are presenting a draft budget that we have taken into account, and have compensated for the increased excesses so that there would not be an increase in any of the excesses in our budget. In other areas, we see that the differences in supply are increasing. Not least for specialist health services. The number from the Medical Association shows that in Oslo there are almost 300 inhabitants per year. a doctor’s specialist, while doing so, for example: in my own home country, Finnmark, is approx. 2000 inhabitants per year. specialist. But you don't have to go further than to Hedmark until the specialist coverage is below 1⁄4 of what it is in Oslo. If you look at the specialist coverage outside the institution, the differences in supply are even greater. As an example, the density of non-institutional specialists is ten times higher in Oslo than in Uppland. This is also reflected in social security payments to specialist services, where Oslo tops sovereignly. It is a development that has been overlooked in many ways in silence, where there is an ever-distant use of resources against the specialist health service without having any assessment of how it can be offset. Clearly, looking at the use of resources in some other areas of society, this has developed in a way that is extremely unfortunate. I want to bring out the dental service. We see that there are refunds from the social security of the order of 270 million. for dental care. It is despite the fact that diseases in the oral cavity must be fully equivalent to other diseases. One should therefore have a reimbursement system that was equalised in relation to other diseases. This must, of course, be more historically conditional than being rationally justified, a justification for having that kind of difference. When looking at cost growth, not least in the hospital sector, Sintef Unimed figures show that hospital costs in 1999 were 11 billion kroner higher than in 1990. Then you can see that in the dental service you have a total of 270 million. NOK in reimbursements. It is then understood that if you had managed to distribute the cake differently, put the resources in other ways, not least at a lower level, you could have had a much better use of resources than what you have today. It's a big challenge. Finding these grips is a major challenge both for the Minister of Social Affairs and for the Minister of Health. It has not been found in the current year's budget. Obviously, if you look forward to taking over the hospitals in the state, you can imagine that there are great opportunities in the state acquisition, but they are only there if you take advantage of them. The fact that Norway today has a building mass of hospitals spread throughout the country offers enormous opportunities if you are willing to continue to invest in a decentralised healthcare system, and to bet on closeness to the decisions also under state control, to bet on getting decisions from people who know their own regions and their own counties, even when the state is going to operate. But if you make hospitals a form of highly centralised units where the specialist density grows even more where it's from before being the largest, it's an accident for Health Norway. I still miss the fact that the Minister of Health is clear. What do you want with the state acquisition? Is it so that it's just the hospitals you want to take over, or is it such that you also have to take over the dental service? What to do with the ambulance service, should it also be state-owned? What about the psychiatry? Obviously, if all of the steps, the big steps that this is about, are to be taken at the same time, it's very quick to stumble on the road. At the same time, we see – as far as this article goes – how much attention is paid to hospitals. But what's easy to forget is that most of the medical treatment is not done in the hospital sector at all. Each year you have approx. 18 million consultations in the first-line service among Norwegian general practitioners, and it is estimated that approx. 1⁄4 of those consultations are immediate help consultations. Only 10 pst. Of them, hospitalized, that's over 400,000, and only 10 pst. Of them again, 44,000, in the real sense, are immediate help states, which there and then need hospital treatment. When you look at the growth that has occurred in immediate hospitalizations, which in many ways paralyzes relative to efficiency, and know what's behind these numbers, the answer should be given. The initiative should not take place to such an extent in the hospital sector, but in Norwegian municipalities. I will then address what I consider to be one of the most important decisions in the next year's budget, namely the permanent reform. Many have warned against the introduction of a fixed-term reform, not least because it is considered that there are so few general practitioners that you have to wait until you have improved the recruitment process by entering into such agreements. And now we see, already in December, that almost 3 500 Norwegian general practitioners have signed the agreement. There's almost no one who hasn't done it, and there's come to a good number of general practitioners who didn't have an agreement in the past at all. There are now almost no Norwegian municipalities that have no agreement. I don't know anyone, but here the Minister of Health might be able to supplement me. And that means that just by creating the scheme, one has already created a potential lift for general practice and for primary health services. Of course, a good deal remains to be done in order to follow this up, and not only should the measures be taken on the medical side, they should also be taken in relation to other health professionals, in relation to health sisters, in relation to midwives, and in relation to an increased focus on prevention services, which have been forgotten in many ways in recent years, as we could see recently. But what we really need to hope for is that with the agreements that the municipalities have the opportunity to enter into here, they also ensure quality in terms of preventive health work. Others have faced the major challenges we face in terms of genetics, in terms of patents on life, and in terms of what we still have to deal with in the Stortinge, food make-up. I'll get into the gene food here. Of course, it is a great challenge to ensure safe food, and I, and others with me, have registered with joy the decision made at the National Labour Party meeting, and I quote from there: ‘In the case of decisions on the application of bio- and genetic engineering inventions, the Workers’ Party will establish a precautionary principle and allow doubt to benefit nature and man.’ Genetically engineered food is offered on the world market but is currently not authorised for sale in Norway. The Workers' Party wants us to think well about this before we can possibly open up the sale of such products, and they also say more in the opinion that I fully agree with. The Christian People's Party and the Center Party, together with SV, fully agree with the assessment made at the Workers' Party's national meeting, and believe it is a strength that the party has come down on its legs in that matter. But what is not strong is that the Workers' Party members of the Social Committee could not join in the decisions taken at their own national meeting. I think that's a weakness. It is also a major weakness when you look at the zeal you have followed up the state acquisition of the hospitals and the partial privatization of Statoil. I expect the Minister of Health to be clear in his view of genetics and the moratorium on genetics.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e453	Since the Left does not have members of the Health and Social Committee, I will use this opportunity to support the budget that was the result of a cooperation between the Labour Party, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Left. The budget shall also lead a welfare society based on an equivalent service provision for all irrespective of housing or economic background. People's rights are the social security network. If it is still to be so in the future, we must constantly work for solutions that ensure this. To the left, the Sandman committee's attitude must be followed up, with a view to reducing sick leave and the number of disabled people. A careful tightening of the sick pay scheme must be allowed to do so. Chronic illness must be protected, and absence due to children’s disease must not be caused by a new scheme. The left-hand side of the view is that it is disappointing that the Government has not found a mechanism for item 2, which is designed to screen the health care users. We know that they are often people with bad finances and belong to the 10 pst. which is not part of the prosperity development. This must be continued by the Government. The left sees it as important that the agreed psychetry escalation plan be followed up, not just with money, but with the will to bet from those involved. Psychiatric hospitals and district psychiatric centres still need to be developed, and cooperation needs to be improved, not least when it comes to the use of professionals. The motto must be that they are used at the right level; there must be no competition between the levels of the same people. The lack of professionals is and will be a problem; recruitment and'maintenance' of the addendum are very central to this. Too often we can read about poor conditions for this patient group, which is increasingly common. I would like to point out here groups that have mixed problems: rus-psychiatry, prisoners with mental disorders and children of psychiatric patients. The treatment provision must therefore also be varied. It's important that the disabled get to share in society on the same line with others as far as possible. In addition to better physical organisation, the system of personal user-controlled assistant is a step in the right direction. Since the scheme has received a very good evaluation of users, it is important that the bill is followed up, and that not bureaucracy and others prevent the use of the scheme, but that new users are added, as provided for in the budget. This is likely to lead to a different political goal: to reduce the number of young people with disabilities in hospitals. In the fall, we have been made aware several times that we have 70,000 children, probably more, living below the poverty line. Of course, this is not something we can accept. It's important to all of us that there's not too much difference in lifestyle. The research shows that in countries with great differences in living conditions, social capital, i.e. common to us, such as schools, libraries, health institutions. There are signs that this is happening in the Nordic countries. The Equalisation message therefore needs to be followed up with an action plan to systematise measures that will allow more people to participate in economic growth. The left-hand side thinks it's important to get the guaranteed minimum income out of the way, as the anti-sampling message suggests. The welfare society is more than the public. Many tasks in society are marked by considerable efforts by voluntary organisations and individuals who use leisure time to help others. We must take care of this work and strengthen it. It is gratifying that the number of volunteer centres has increased, and that the budget agreement has led to increased support for voluntary organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e470	Olav Gunnar Ballo gets the word out of the way to make suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e473	I would like to promote the SV's proposals for Framework Areas 15 and 16 as well as proposals for the State to take over 80 pst. expenditure on equipment at hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e478	The representative Olav Gunnar Ballo has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e481	The Labour Party budget proposal was aimed at three main objectives: to strengthen welfare systems, to create fairer distribution and to secure jobs and the personal economy of people. It is gratifying to note that the budgetary agreement between the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party is committed to these main objectives. There is a majority of a budget that is good for the Norwegian economy, which contributes to job security and reduces the risk of further interest rate increases. High unemployment and high interest rates create increased differences. That is why the order of the economy is also good social policy. The government has proposed to extend the elderly care action plan by a further 5,000 units. It equals almost $4 billion in government grants. This shall be followed up by personnel in line with the estimated needs of 5500 annual works. The action plan is, above all, a policy of care for those who have a great need for care and care. And I'm glad the Storting supports the Government in this. In the final period of the action plan, the Government wants to give priority to nursing homes and nursing homes that are spatially and operationally organised for the care of good luck rather than general care housing. We will further prioritise the renovation and replacement of immature buildings that can no longer be approved for the purpose, and we will ensure that the exclusive development is completed. Getting a good and fair distribution between municipalities in relation to the needs of the population is one of the main challenges now. The application deadline for investment grants through the Husbanken is set at 30 June next year. We will then be able to get a full overview of all planned projects in the municipalities and will be able to award grants on the basis of the highest possible level of service provision in relation to the older population around the different municipalities. The government will keep the Stortingen informed about the status of the implementation of the action plan, and I will present in the 2002 State Budget an overview of the application entry to the Husbank until the deadline of 30 June next year. The government will focus on making education and work more accessible to disabled people. It is not acceptable for people who wish to work to be referred to disability benefit because they lack transport services or not to be compensated for the additional costs of transport. This is why we are now working on a nationwide pilot scheme to test out schemes that can better meet the needs of people with disabilities in terms of education and work travel. In addition, the Government of the National Transport Plan has announced that it will take a closer look at the scope, organisation and financing of the transport service for disabled people. The cost of sick pay and disability pension for the population is increasing sharply. Sickness absences have increased significantly since 1994, and there is so far no sign of growth slowing down or flattening. This is worrying. However, Norway has high levels of participation, including in higher age groups. This also means that groups with health problems are more involved in working life. It is desirable and in line with the taskbar. However, the high level of participation alone cannot explain the development of sick leave we have seen in Norway in recent years. There is particular concern that the growth of sick leave has occurred at the same time as the number of disability pensioners has increased significantly. Near 10 pst. Among the population aged between 18 and 67, there are now unemployed pensioners. New measures are therefore needed to reverse these developments and to prevent unnecessary departure from the labour market. This will require broad consensus in many groups, and the Sandman Committee setting provides a good basis for further work. The government will follow up the Sandman Committee's investigation into the Stortinge during the coming year. I am shaken by the kind of social security abuse that the Swedish National Social Security Agency has now reported to the police, and that, among other things, is mentioned in the World’s Work in recent times. Our social security system is mainly based on trust between the population and professionals, between professionals and the social security system. In the first instance, drug abuse must be caught in the ongoing control of the proper building of all social security benefits and must be properly measured. With regard to the matter in question, I believe that the Swedish National Works Agency has worked and worked closely with it. But in the light of the fact that there is a new type of abuse, I will ensure that the Swedish National Agency develops specific control and follow-up procedures in order to better be able to detect attempts at fraud. I would also like to raise this matter with the Medical Association and with relevant immigrant organisations. In previous articles today, several have addressed the strong focus that has been on drug-assisted rehabilitation for drug users. This is an important offer that provides increased quality of life for many. Sufficient development of the response and control apparatus around the individual client is a prerequisite for success in this type of treatment. I have noticed that a majority of the Social Committee is asking the Government to take the initiative in offering medically assisted rehabilitation to those drug addicts who may benefit from it after medical evaluation, and to open up the possibility for GMP specialists to prescribe such medications to patients on application. I have already arranged for doctors who have started prescribing drugs to drug addicts for a transitional period to continue this prescription until their application has been dealt with by the centres of expertise. I will come back in the revised national budget to how a more permanent enlarged system can be implemented, and the economic consequences of such a system. These are measures for the group that may be most difficult in this country, and I am therefore pleased that we are going to be able to do more precisely for it. Recently, there has been a focus on poverty in Norway. It is important that this group is brought forward, and in particular that it now focuses on children. Many of those receiving social assistance have no or marginal links with the labour market. For this reason, we must work towards targeting social service efforts that can help individuals to find their own way of caring. I'm glad we're already working on finding good methods for this. For persons who fail to do so, public welfare schemes shall continue to provide financial security and security. State-guided guidelines for the measurement of social benefits for living will give municipalities a strong signal of an appropriate and sound level of social assistance. I want to send a circular to the municipalities during the spring of 2001, not to say in the new year already, with the new guidelines. The government is actively working for a fairer distribution and, therefore, a separate action plan for social and economic security will be drawn up in the spring of 2001. The action plan shall be concrete and targeted at the most disadvantaged, and housing and work will be given special priority. I have noticed that very much of the original draft budget has been approved. It bears witness to a significant upsurge in the government's social policy, and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e527	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e530	I noticed that the Minister of Social Affairs said at the beginning of his speech that the draft budget is a budget that is good for the Norwegian economy. Well, it will remain to be seen. I'll go into what has to do with sick people. In the government of Stoltenberg, the first increase is the tax on housing, an increase in the electricity charge, an increase in VAT by 1 pst. from 1 January, and will return with a reduction in the food tax only from 1 July. When we look at the health and social budget, there is an increase in the proportion of people who suffer from it, both in treatment and in the use of drugs, among others. to raise the percentage for blue prescription. This also applies to all types of medical visits – the excesses are in the weather. This is done at the same time that Norwegian municipalities do exactly the same, municipal taxes and prices go into the weather. At the end of his speech, the Minister of Social Affairs said that we have to look at those who have the most difficulty. And then my question is, how does the Minister of Social Affairs think that all these increases, among other things. in the health and social sectors, while the electricity tax is rising, property taxes are rising and municipal taxes are rising, are chronically ill, performing and, in particular, minimum pensioners in this country? They don't benefit from higher tax deductions, as you say you should have, because they don't pay taxes, they don't have these deductions. How does the Minister of Social Affairs think that this will be reflected in the economy of these people?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e539	I am happy for everyone who is sincerely concerned about the most disadvantaged. In fact, when it comes to increasing excesses, it's quite a hit. We're a lot of people who use the health care system a few times, and we have both the money and the opportunity to pay. That's why the government has also come back with some improvements to those who have chronic disorders, because that's the group we need to protect when it comes to propensity. What I wonder is that the Progress Party, while expressing this concern, is proposing changes to the health pay system that will affect those who do not make a lot of money, with quite significant sums, for example. people who may have to be sick for up to one year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e548	Alcohol-related deaths are approximately equivalent. Ten times the number of overdose deaths due to drugs. The government’s draft budget contained a relatively significant cut in the subsidy to non-governmental organisations and private foundations in drug treatment. In a letter to me, the Council of State says that this has been necessary to provide funds for other high-priority interventions for drug users. How can the Council of State say that when she has actually proposed a reduction across the drug sector? Where are the priority measures when the whole area is weakened? So the government says it will pursue a restrictive drug policy, and in particular target measures to limit total consumption and raise the age of first use of alcohol. At the same time, however, the Government budgets with increased income despite unaltered taxes on alcohol. The government will reduce consumption, but budgets with increased consumption, i.e. the government budgets that its own policies fail. Does the government intend to continue with it, or will it do anything to reduce drug consumption?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e555	In fact, the government wants to help reduce alcohol consumption. I think there's considerable excitement about that, especially if we look at the fact that it should be down among the youngest, where I think the consensus goes all the way across the parties. To what extent it's going to fall for other age groups, there's probably some disagreement about it. The representative Næss says that we want to reduce alcohol consumption, but still expect more sales. Yes, we want increased sales through the official machine. Because what we know now is that the increase has been significantly greater in the case of smuggled spirits, and in the case of border trade, and then it is our wish that we should have the alcohol turnover back in the wine monopoly, where we have clean trading conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e562	Despite all the efforts in the field of care for the elderly, to which the Minister of Social Affairs was also involved, the Health Inspectorate has demonstrated, through a number of studies, a serious failure of care for the elderly. The need for new solutions that can ensure a good and worthwhile offer to older and highly nurturing people is urgent and obvious to all. There is broad cross-political agreement that good care services should be a public responsibility. For the Right, it is essential that the public finances health and care services and sets quality requirements. But who performs the services, public or private, is less important. The Minister of Social Affairs said in the newspaper of 24 July this year: ‘I am concerned that Grandma gets the best services. Not by whom they are provided.’ This is an assessment to which the Right subscribes, and which gives promises, I think, of a broad consensus also in terms of instruments. By separating the ordering and delivery roles of care services, we can provide greater attention to the quality of care for the elderly. For outsourcing and tenders, it is not a question of ideological choice but of practical policy. And I am pleased that the Minister of Social Affairs is practical in his approach to these questions. But when I read the settings of St.meld. No 28 for 1999-2000, care 2000, I'm very much in doubt about what the rest of the Workers' Party really wants. In a note, the Workers' Party states that the care sector ‘must not be tendered and left to private’. So my simple question is, what does the Workers' Party really mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e574	The market does not distribute fairly. Therefore, it is imperative that both care of the elderly and health care are a public responsibility, that it is available to all, and that it be distributed as needed and not according to the money book. This is why the state has also made a significant effort to develop good care for the elderly. We're now in the first year where we've built something more than the big increase we have in the number of older people. I have noticed with great interest that different municipalities build up in a very different way. What I see, as I think can be a danger, is if the municipalities really put away so much of their care to private that they are actually no longer able to fully know what care is. And we see that there are quite significant problems involved in privatising care for the most nurturing in the country. It is the experience of the municipalities that have privatised. So I am very happy that Norwegian municipalities are essentially choosing solutions that are not profit-based. But that we have a number of private, non-governmental organisations that care for the elderly in all the municipalities of the country, who were the ones who started it and who pushed it forward, I am happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e581	In the reorganization of the Drug Directorate, it was suggested that local drug prevention should be carried out through local centres of expertise. But now it's like that. 614 item 63 is reduced by 14 million. kr, and the majority asks the Government to return to the Storting with the concreteisation of the local bet and, where appropriate, proposals for additional appropriations when the centres of expertise have been presented in our plans. I'm assuming that happens, but then the ratio comes in that there's a need for money here. The need for a better economy in the provision of drugs by municipalities is great. Then there is a proposal from a majority consisting of the Workers' Party and the Advance Party that we should also start with medically assisted rehabilitation facilities for drug users. I hope this arrangement does not come at the expense of the other. It's basically a prerequisite, because this is beyond the budgetary agreement, and we've seen a little bit of it right now. So it's this thing with specialists in general medicine, which is going to prescribe. How many such specialists do we have today? Who meets the criteria for this? To whom are these applications to be sent? These are questions that I understand that the User Association is also concerned about. They have asked that question in a letter dated 13 December, which got me into her just now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e592	It's been a long time since we've had as good a municipal settlement as we have now. We've increased the grants to the municipalities by 5 billion kroner, and 1.6 billion dollars of these are free resources. This gives municipalities a completely different opportunity to do the prevention work they are required by law. In addition, we know that the professional justification is quite strong for prevention to take place where people live and stay. The time of the major campaigns seems to be largely over in terms of prevention. Then there was a question of medically assisted rehabilitation – that is, it should be decentralised – and whether general medicine specialists can do something about this. In any case, general practitioners are the medical group that has the greatest holistic view of the patient. They are able to treat most diseases. In fact, it is those who treat all diseases in this country when the specialist has made his recommendations. So I'm not worried that this kind of knowledge should not be found around the country, but of course, both the municipality, the county and the state should continue to think about prevention and treatment and also act accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e599	The term ‘drug-assisted treatment’ sounds great, as it seems to be a fairly comprehensive treatment involving medicinal products. But what it boils down to is that methadone and Subutex, or buprenorphine, which is the same as Temgesic, are drugs. So this also applies to methadone. Drug users who do not get out of their drug use continue to use drugs. So you might say that for some people it will be better than the other drugs they use, but unfortunately, studies show that it often becomes a polydrug abuse. In some cases, these substances are also sold to others, so that you can obtain funds to buy dope yourself. I would like to quote what the leader of the Association against Rustoft, Knut T. Reinås, in the magazine «Toward Rustoft» No. 62 in May 1999, in which he specifically assessed this with general practitioners and medically assisted treatment: ‘It has been shown that buprenorphine’... ‘prescribed by general practitioners in France does not result in drug users ending injecting and still forming part of the drug scene. There is little reason to apply a lower control regime for this substance than for methadone.’ What I think seems very unclear from the comments made by the majority is: what else is to be done in terms of treatment? What kind of arrangements do you think that general practitioners should go into, and on what premises? What should the control regime be like in order not only to maintain polydrug use? And how to avoid getting into the mess that already exists with a number of drug addicts, namely that they get prescribed B drugs in addition, such as Vival, Valium, Stesolid, Rohypnol, and then you get a combination of different drugs and drugs, and an even greater degree of liberalisation associated with it. How has the Minister for Social Affairs intended to prevent this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e611	Norway started drug-assisted treatment late — much later than any other country with which we choose to compare. Pilot projects took place between 1993 and 1994, and were made into a national scheme in 1997. I think it has been a very important step forward for the group we are now talking about. People who have been using drugs for many years have significant health problems. They have a significant risk of infection, approximately 80 pst. have hepatitis C, and they also have a number of other diseases. No later than this morning, the news discussed a report showing that they are suffering from severe malnutrition. From field care — these lowthreshold services — there are diseases among the long-term drug addicts who Norwegian doctors have barely seen within the time frame of Ballo and I was educated. This is serious. There is a group that we have to take care of, and therefore drugs are also used in treatment, which is recognised in all other countries of the world. We're going to have control of it in that way, using the centres of expertise that we already have, and that can look at the requirement that no matter who prescribes it, you also have to have a social follow-up. Housing, with activity, with something to live on, and then they're also going to get their medical treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e620	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e623	This year’s budget is being incorporated into a wide range of budgets where the Workers’ Party provides for significant increases in taxes on disease due to the fact that this time it both increases the self-employment rate for medicines on blue prescription and also increases other excesses referring to the treatment of sick people. As regards the question of the use of the most effective medicines, I would like to point out that all batches other than the Workers' Party refer to referrals from patient groups where the Committee has been made aware that some hospitals do not offer the most optimal medicinal products because of the economic situation in hospitals. I am therefore pleased that there is now an overall committee which at least supports the proposal to ask the Government to review the extent to which the financial situation of hospitals has an impact on the drugs used in the treatment and, where appropriate, to take measures to ensure optimal medical treatment for patients. It is also gratifying that all other parties in the committee, with the exception of the Workers' Party, point out that the new asthma agent Singulair continues to be refunded only on an individual application. The same majority, therefore, happily asks the Government to reconsider giving ordinary blue-receptive treatment to, among other things. Singulair after prescribing by the relevant specialist. This is a point that I expect the Minister of Health to follow up fairly quickly, so that it can be possible to reduce the use of cortisone-containing asthma medicines. It is gratifying that we have now received regional offers of methadone and Subutex treatment. But I regret to say that the offers are too bad, and most of those who need such medically-assisted treatment do not. In particular, it would be bad for our injecting drug users if the new circular on medical prescription from the Ministry of Social Affairs came into force from 2001. A significant number of heroin users will then be deprived of their treatment services, as the right to prescribe methadone and Subutex is deprived of general practitioners, who have today exceeded 1,000 patients during such treatment. This cannot be accepted by the Progress Party. I want to show you that 120 people have just lost their lives in Oslo this year as a result of overdose. Compared to last year's disaster, 99 people had lost their lives at this time. Evaluation of a project among older heroin users in methadone queues shows that they remain temporarily drug-free. The evaluation shows that the use of the Subutex drug among drug addicts is a good test result. With regard to the changes in the law on the prescription of general practitioners, the Progress Party will come back to this as a separate case in the spring session if this rounding is not stopped in time. However, I would like to recommend to the Minister of Health: do not go to the general practitioners who have taken drugs in treatment with drugs today and over time, and who, at my discretion, carry out ethical medical activities. Discrimination and the exclusion of drug addicts must be brought to an end, which has also been applied by social and health authorities, until our day. In its budget, the Progress Party is increasing the cost of drug rehabilitation for drug users by 40 million. kr. This could increase the amount of treatment available to about 1000 new patients. I am also very pleased that the User Association, which is making a formidable effort in the field of drugs, is now secured a budget of 500 000 kroner after the Committee's consideration of the budget. In the case of, inter alia: Medi 3 in Ålesund's application for hospital status, I also hope that the Minister of Health can confirm in his statement that it will soon receive it, or at least have his application processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e644	The government’s proposals for the 2001 government budget give a high priority to the health sector. The budgetary agreement between the central parties and the Workers' Party does not entail any major or fundamental changes to the original draft budget. The agreement therefore provides a good basis for continuing the systematic development of the health and care sector, which has been widely agreed upon in the EEA. After all, it is common to start almost any mention of the Norwegian health system, with the observation that it remains a very high standard. That's also the basis for saying. Not least, there is reason to stress the considerable effort made by employees in the sector, which often comes from the background to the examples that illustrate failures and shortcomings in the same sector. But we also have to take inwards that there are major deficiencies in Norwegian health care, and that in several respects it does not keep the level that we want it to have. And when the health budget is being treated, it is quite natural that attention is being focused on areas of our health services that are struggling with problems. The fact that large increases in appropriations have been adopted over recent years, so that we are now among the countries in Europe that spend the most money on health and care, does not mean that all problems in the sector have been solved. And behind the problems expressed in economic and financial figures, there are unresolved tasks, queues and waiting lists in terms of prevention and treatment of damage and disease. The hospital sector is an illustrative example of this. Despite exceptional appropriations for the current year, many hospitals are still struggling with capacity problems, deficits and financial imbalances. This is no surprise. It always takes time to work out such problems. The government has also proposed an increase in hospital appropriations for the next year. There is a broad political consensus to continue to increase the appropriations allocated to the health sector in our country. I also believe that this will be necessary. On that basis, it may be a bold one, not to say foolish, claim from this pulpit, but I would nevertheless argue that lack of money is not, in fact, the biggest problem in the Norwegian health sector. The problems we see cannot be solved quickly by more money alone. The implementation of organisational improvement and efficiency improvements is at least equally important. While appropriations are increasing year after year, there is a danger that the more basic organisational problems will not be addressed in the same way. These can be painful processes that are easy to understand, that you're hesitating to get started. And both implementation and results will take time. It is all the more important to get started and not try to postpone the problems by constantly giving more money. The government has in St.prp. No 28 for 2000-01 announced that state ownership of county hospitals is being prepared, and that a separate case of this will be promoted for the Stortinget in the spring session. I'm glad that the committee in its Innst. S. No 86 express satisfaction at the start of such preparations. I do not have time to go into the arrangement for such a state acquisition in my post here, but I would just like to comment that when it comes to exemption, it is of course not a matter of exemption from the owner. My opinion on this, which has been quoted here, was more a comment on proposals that I have seen that a directorate, a major bureaucracy, should be established to take care of the ownership of hospitals. It'll just be a setup of a detailed management system that's the opposite of what I want to come up with when I'm talking about a state acquisition and a separation of hospitals into independent and independent companies. This is not about having control-command, but about how to exercise control-command. And of course, it shouldn't be either in a «stalinist» way or in a way that involves a detailed management of things that don't have a ownership to rule. I have also noticed that the majority of the Committee asks the Ministry to consider whether the State should enter into an agreement with the South Trøndelag County Municipality on the prior assumption of the responsibilities for the expansion and operation of hospitals and the RIT 2000 as a result of a possible overall state acquisition of hospitals. I agree that this should be assessed, and I do not find it curative at all in terms of the tasks that we are talking about here with regard to the largest hospital expansion in Norway that we are now facing, and I will start discussions with the county council as soon as possible. The attention given to the challenges in the hospital sector must not overshadow the fact that the primary health service is the backbone of the Norwegian health system itself. Strengthening primary health care is necessary to manage most of the tasks in the rest of the health sector. The fixed medical device, which will be in operation from 1 June 2001, will lead to a more powerful first line service. It is a pleasure to note that preparations for the permanent reform are on track. I can broadly confirm the positive information given by the representative Ballo, but at the same time I have to say that we are talking about figures that are preliminary to quality assurance, so I cannot go into it further. I just want to say that the deviation is very positive with regard to the termination of the fixed medical scheme. The current staffing plan for the health sector is valid for the period 1998-2001. Despite the many measures in this area, there are still problems in recruiting and exploiting key personnel groups. I have noted the Committee's proposal for a new action plan for health professionals and will come back to this in the context of the 2002 budget. Now we're going into the third year of the implementation of the psychiatry plan. I am pleased that the Committee so strongly underlines the importance of following up this escalation plan. I would like to stress that the Government is committed to the implementation of the plan within the eight-year period set. In order, inter alia, to: the personnel situation must result in a stronger escalation towards the end than at the beginning of the period. The plan for equipment investments in Norwegian hospitals is well on track as we now go into the fourth and second last year. I have registered a request for more new equipment, and that was notified in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 8, I will come back to this in connection with the follow-up to the plan. However, as important as acquiring new equipment, it must be to increase the use of the equipment already acquired. Once again, it is not only a question of more money, but also of getting more out of the money used. The Ministry has prioritised mammography screening, radiation therapy and radiograph and radiotherapy and radiotherapy programmes in accordance with the decision of the Stortinge Programme. It is now important to build up research and some of the other educational activities, including: for medical specialists and genetic guides. For research, this is planned in a way that is largely in line with the Research Council's commitment. The cancer plan is very comprehensive and spread across a variety of measures. I can assure you that the plan is largely on track. However, I take note that the majority of the committee is of the opinion that it is still difficult to read out of the budget what the status is. At next year's budget, I want to clarify what the majority is asking for, including the need for relieving treatment and the need for increased numbers of jet engines in addition to the 36 that were originally included in the cancer plan, and when appropriate to acquire them. It can be claimed that the main efforts we are now making, and as I have briefly mentioned, relate to reforms and escalation plans that the Storting has adopted in the past. That's absolutely right, and I think it should be. These are ambitious plans, and I think it is now more important to show that we are able to implement the plans that have been adopted than to develop new ones. In the examination of the 1999 budget, the Stortinget Government requested a review of the use of own-payments in order to identify schemes that better protect the chroniclers, including an assessment of the expenditure ceiling 2 for expenditure in addition to those covered by the free-card system. Feedback has been given in relation to this problem in the budget proposal for the protection of public health. The conclusion is that, in practice, it will not be possible to construct a separate common tariff for the expenditure in question. I note that the Committee agrees that it will be complicated to design a targeted self-interest scheme, but that one still asks for an attempt to establish a new scheme. I have to point out that today I do not fully see how it can be done, but I am, as mentioned above, prepared to consider additional protection measures within individual services, so that the overall protection of major healthcare users is more satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e695	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e698	I noticed that this time the Minister of Health did not use the wording ‘extra bet’ and ‘large bet’ on health care, but talked about continuing. And that's what happens, there's no extra effort in the current budget. Otherwise, I fully agree with the Minister of Health that it is not just ‘lack of money’ in Norwegian hospitals that is the problem of getting more service out of hospitals. There is, to a large extent, poor internal organisation. This process of organization gets painful, it's said. Yes, it gets painful, but now we have the opportunity of taking over the hospitals in the state. Unfortunately, we haven't had that opportunity in the past. Then I have to disagree entirely with the representative Annelise Höegh when she says that Stalinist methods can be expected in connection with this acquisition because you don't want to build up a bureaucracy and a directorate or a government-central body to do this. It is pointless, it is precisely the direct contact with the Minister of Health and the Department that we have fought for state hospitals have called for, and here the Minister of Health has so far made a very wise decision – at least that is my view of it. Then I have two questions for the Minister of Health about the state acquisition. One goes to the State Health Authority’s position in a state hospital operation, supervision and control. It has to be assessed, and I wonder if the Minister of Health has thoughts about it. The second question is: What has the Minister of Health thought about separating the order role from the producer role in his plans for state takeover?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e710	The President reminds us that lines should be corrected to the last speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e713	There are very important questions to the representative Alvheim here. What I can say about this, is that with regard to the supervisory role, that question is already under consideration. I cannot now address what proposals will be made regarding the possible reorganization of supervisory functions, but it is being worked on, and there will be proposals to that effect. It is also important, of course, to have supervisory functions that can act and appear to be completely independent of the owner and the operator, for example. hospitals. There is an important consideration in this context. Similarly, it is very important to clarify and clarify the difference between the supplier’s role and the order role in the health sector. I do not think this is something that gets more complicated by a state acquisition. It is complicated today, and there are uncertainties in this area today. I believe that a state acquisition in this area will also make it easier to get a distinction and get more purer to what is to be the order role in the health sector, compared to what is to be the supplier role or the provider role. But I don't want to be able to come up with any suggestions on how this can be organised, either, but in this context I will continue to attach importance to regional health cooperation in relation to owning and operating the hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e720	The Christian People's Party, through constructive negotiations with the Workers' Party, has come to a budget which has clear improvements and which we support. Together with the Workers' Party, we also support an industrial biotechnology and genetic engineering project, because it is important that Norway also participates in this work. Genetic technologies are developing rapidly and can generate growth in agriculture, aquaculture, health and the environment. At the same time, several ethical questions are raised. In the budget, the majority have been concerned with genetics and how to avoid the introduction of genetically engineered products on the market. The same majority point to the fact that genetically engineered food is not authorised for sale in Norway and indicates that questions about a moratorium on genetically modified food have been raised in many forums. The Christian People's Party has consistently established a precautionary principle and has been satisfied that the Minister of Agriculture has also expressed this. We fully agree with the decision taken by the National Assembly of the Workers' Party on a temporary ban. The Christian People's Party finds it strange that the members of the Workers' Party have not joined the opinion of their own national meeting. We are concerned about a quote from the Minister of Health who was in the newspaper The Nations on 16 November this year, saying that there are ‘ungrounded trade barriers hidden in the health alibi’. Is this quote correct? Or is it that the Minister for Health will follow up the Workers' Party's national meeting?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e731	Subject to the fact that I do not fully know the quotation from the nation to which it is referred, I think both of these questions can be answered corroboratingly by my side, and I do not see that there is any contradiction here. There is no doubt that I and the Government will of course follow up on what is stated at the National Labour Party meeting. Nor do I see that any of the things I have said later, in any way contradict it. What I said, which is probably referred to in the quotation given here, is precisely that health policy measures can also hide barriers to trade – barriers to trade which, in my view, are under false flag. It must also involve health authorities and a health minister. Public health in any country does not benefit from the use of arguments on health as surrogate arguments to introduce obstacles in other areas, such as the use of drugs and drugs. in trade. That's what I pointed out in the Leakmans Conference that I assume this refers to. I am concerned that if we are to have credibility in health prevention work, we must concentrate the arguments about what really is health prevention, and not allow us to interfere in that argument, for example. to protect industry or its own business by other means.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e738	Fortunately, we get time to get back to the details of how state ownership is to be exercised, so I don't want to answer Alvheim's reply to me now. Now I'm going to try to ask some questions to the Minister of Health. It's probably a lot of ambiguities. Because as I now perceived the Health Minister in his first reply, he just made it clear that we need to get a clarification of the supplier's role and the ordering role. And as we see it, the state's role as hospital administrator is to govern through priorities and through the economy, through the financial instruments. So this means that the state is part of an order role. But whether the state needs to be a supplier is something else. The individual hospital is a supplier. I would like to ask if the council here believes that the state must own all the hospitals itself, because today the state also controls the hospitals that are private. And from the Right at least – and I actually thought from the Progress Party too – you can see that we can get a number of private hospitals, either through organisations or through purely commercial measures. But the state will govern through its commissioning role, through the funding mechanisms, through its priorities and through its functional allocation. Jan Grund has just been talking about the same thing as Right, that it will be difficult if the State at the Minister of Health, and at the end of the day at the Stortinget, will decide a lot in the individual hospital. Therefore, it may be reasonable to establish a unit which is somewhat remote from the day-to-day management of the department and which can carry out the control of the individual hospital. It does not have to be – and should not be – a major directorate, but the ministry can become a major bureaucratic directorate if the Minister of Health himself is to control the more than 100 hospitals. And I hope he hasn't thought of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e749	Here there were many issues that were raised in one comment, and I feel that each of them in particular is so complicated that they deserve other comments than that at least I am able to say in two minutes. I also think that there are a number of things that are mixed together, for example. where the representative of Høegh here refers to the fact that, in order to check the hospitals, it should be a distance from the owner and the department. And I fully agree with that. But it's a different function than the owner function. What I'm doing is I'm cleaning up ownership and ownership and adding it to the department. It shall not require any major red tape. But there must be an apparatus that is in close, direct contact with the hospitals, through the boards that are to be appointed for hospitals, and that is, of course, common to any active owner, whether he is now state or private. The questions raised about the ordering role and the supplier role, I was really a little uncertain about. But first of all, this is about an acquisition by the state of the public-owned hospitals – mainly we are talking about the county hospitals. I see no basis for privatisation of the public hospitals. Another thing is that in the future there will also be private institutions and hospitals that will have relations with the public, and I am also concerned with improving, systematizing the interaction between the public and private services in the sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e756	I reveal no great secret when I say that we in the Center Party do not agree that the state will take over the hospitals. But I have recorded that there is a majority for it after the National Assembly of the Workers Party, and I have to say that I look forward to a debate on it when I hear the exchange of lines between the representative Höegh and the Minister of Health in terms of ownership, the role of ordering and the role of performing. I think there's a lot of roughness in the waters we're going through, and that makes me busy with a lot of things. The transition phase will be a vacuum for the hospitals, said the head of the social committee, the representative Alvheim, and I agree with that. I would therefore like to ask the Minister of Health if he will provide an up-to-date overview of the state of the hospitals and the hospital economy in relation to the revised national budget, and whether there will also be supplementary proposals there, so that the operation for this year is ensured, and that it does not become a vacuum, when we know what kind of response it was to the government budget in relation to the hospital economy in the submission of the budget. So for this with equipment and supplements for hospital equipment. It was stated in the budget that the government would come back to the Storting in the fall when there was more information about this, after there had been a questionnaire in the county councils about how it was with the equipment plan. Now I realized at the Health Minister's post that he might not say anything about it until after Christmas, but it is a little important to get this in place, because the purchase of hospital equipment can increase patient treatment and thus reduce waiting time. In this respect, investment in hospital equipment should take place as quickly as possible, as the majority also expresses it in the mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e765	I can confirm that we will, of course, follow closely the development of the hospitals' economy in the future. We shall in any case do so, but it is natural that, in the context of the work now being prepared to promote proposals for a State acquisition, separate agreements are also made, both with the current owners and hospitals directly, with a view to providing the best possible overview of the development of their economy. In this context, it will also be natural to come to Stortinget with the updates that this provides. Whether it will be in the context of the revised national budget, which was asked here — which will also be quite natural — or whether it will be in the context of specific takeover proposals, may well come to an end, but at least updates of developments will be provided in the future. Of course, I cannot now say anything about the extent to which additional appropriations will be needed or relevant, but I can nevertheless see that the operating situation for hospitals has a good basis through the budget that is now being adopted. With regard to the second question, I have to say in that context that the harvest was short. We have carried out a review of the equipment situation and could be able to give feedback on it now, but I must be allowed to come back to it as soon as possible, as was said here, in the new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e772	«The State, it is I,» said Louis XIV. And so it's perhaps more striking to refer to the Sun King than to this being a Stalinist takeover of the hospitals. At least there are more questions than answers preliminary to what kind of spirit the state operation of hospitals will take place. Obviously, there are many issues that arise. One thing is that the hospitals themselves are going to the state. Then you have psychiatric wards in some hospitals, independent psychiatric hospitals in others. Should the psychiatry follow? At least it doesn't seem obvious to me. The dental health is an area that is not directly inside the hospital system at all, and it may seem artificial if it is to be transferred. On the other hand, it seems obvious that the air ambulance should also be coordinated in the case of the personnel under the control of the State. It would have been desirable to have some signals from the Minister of Health in relation to how he thinks about a possible takeover and the responsibilities here. In two areas, it would at least seem very close to continuing the work that has been done today. With regard to health regions, it can be seen that in several health regions, there has been a rather significant effort to coordinate between the different states, much sensible thinking, where some, both politicians and administrators, may feel frustrated in this uncertainty as to whether these thoughts should be passed on. I should have liked to have heard the Minister of Health's thoughts on how to secure participation in the various states and regions also on the day when the state assumes responsibility, so that the proximity they have, and the knowledge they have of the services, are safeguarded even if the state is to operate a hospital. In addition, I would like to point out that there has been a continuing conflict with regard to whether medication should be prescribed outside or within hospitals, and suggestions are also made in the Stortinget around it. Does the Minister of Health see the usefulness of the Rikstrygdeverket as a whole taking financial responsibility for the drugs, including in the hospital sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e783	Once again, there are many rather complicated questions related to this. I recognize that there are many and complicated questions, but these two minutes of posts are a little short to give the right answers. What I mean to be absolutely certain is that comparisons both with Stalin and Louis XIV will prove to be quite far away from what we'll see in the future in terms of the state's acquisition of the hospitals. At that point, I think I can reassure any fear that might exist about this. Regarding the question of psychiatry, the answer is yes, it includes both somatic and psychiatric hospital wards or what it might be. If I'm going to give a signal beyond that, it's probably the easiest thing for me to say that in practice this will include the specialist health service, which is currently assigned to county councils and what is inherently related to it, including for example. also the ambulance side to this. I would like to make a clear reservation as regards dental care. I think that's an area that's going to be the subject of a special review and treatment, and we're going back to it, but independent of the matter that is now being prepared for state acquisition of the hospitals. Then I have always said about this that we will build on the positive experiences we have from health regional cooperation in the further development of a state owned hospital. Among other things, we will do it through the organisation of the hospital companies that will come, and the board appointment for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e796	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e800	In today's budget, we allocate almost NOK 196 billion to health and social services in our country. At the same time, we know that every fourth person on earth has to do with less than a dollar a day – that is, less than a gallon of petrol costs. It gives us a perspective on how privileged we are. And it says something about prioritizing right. Fortunately, there is a great deal of political consensus about priorities for health. And we all agree to continue the health reforms. We're a little bit in disagreement with the tempo. 70 million. The proposed mental health is a good improvement in relation to the initial draft budget for the Workers' Party. It is also positive that one proposes a more flexible use of the money, so that the municipalities and county councils with good and realistic plans can now complete their projects more quickly. Almost every third disability is due to mental illness. Several studies suggest that the same persons have very poor living conditions and that it is difficult to integrate them into working life. The Ministry has set up a project in collaboration with the municipality of Stavanger and the Fontenehuset in Stavanger to develop transnational work-preparation measures. The Christian People's Party hopes that experience will ensure that more people with mental disorders can be in full or in part at work. More knowledge and information about mental disorders provide security, both for those who provide help, for those who receive help, and for those who are close to them. It has been shown that children living with parents with mental disorders have often been forgotten in the treatment system. I want to give honor to Redd Barna who has put the search light on this and started the project «patients also have children» at Blakstad Hospital. This has a great preventive effect, as long-term studies show that half of the children often get a similar diagnosis as their parents later in life, if they are not helped at an early stage. Prevention benefits. We have just completed a six-year action plan on suicide. It shows that from 1988 to 1997, suicide rates in Norway have fallen by 30 p.m. We're going to enjoy that. At the same time, it is important that a follow-up to the new action plan builds up treatment provision in all municipalities and provides follow-up training services in suicideology planned for the next year. Suicide rates are still too high. They represent about twice the number of traffic fatalities in our country. Abortion prevention is important. The information provided to young people by school and healthcare has led to fewer young people choosing abortion. More and more pregnant women want to talk and advice from AAN. Evaluation of their work shows that a good quality work is being done. For the Christian People's Party, it was important to get back the million that was cut off in the budget of AAN. AN and other non-governmental organisations are an important and necessary complement to public activities. The Gospel centres, KRAFT-directed actions and other voluntary anti-personnel activities have received 6.15 million. kr more than originally budgeted. Many know the work that the Marita Foundation has been doing for a number of years. Up to 100,000 school students have seen films every year and participated in school assignments. In recent years, the number of school visits has declined due to poor economic performance and the criteria for getting social benefits. This is tragic at a time when drug use among younger users is increasing and the drug testing threshold has become several times lower than a few years ago. An overall committee requests that the award criteria be amended, if necessary, so that foundations can also receive operating grants. Personally, I am very pleased that 150 000 kroner have been allocated to a day centre for follow-up of methadone users at T5 in Arendal. It is important that former addicts are helped to master their daily lives when they are to establish a new form of drug-free life. The Christian People's Party insists that the award of narcotic drugs such as methadone and buprenorphine should only be made by specially authorised personnel authorised for this particular task. We disagree with the majority, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party, which will allow specialists in general medicine to prescribe such drugs to patients on application. We fear that this will lead to liberalisation and increased pressure from those who have drug problems. Next year has been designated as the UN International Year of Volunteering. There are 236 volunteer centres in Norway today that receive state aid through Frisam. Work ranges from visiting, starting self-help groups for the integration of refugees into the local environment. The Committee notes that the priority should be to set up several centres in municipalities and urban areas which do not have such facilities. The Christian People's Party sees the benefits that the training institutions provide to patients, so that they can improve their level of function and prevent the relapse of disease. We see it as positive that there is a fixed balance of 190 kroner per year. 24 hours for patients. The new financial instrument may give adverse results to some training institutions. Differences in maintenance, investment and holidays should be taken into account. The establishment of new institutions must ensure the best possible geographical distribution. With the exception of two institutions in Group II, there are no training institutions in Group I from Rogaland to Westfold. It therefore means very much that a unanimous committee is positive that Agder Behaviour is established in East Agder. The CatoCenter in Son has a high quality of its services. The Christian People's Party fully supports the purchase of services at the Centre in 2001 corresponding to up to 30 places. We also support the fact that the social security fund buys healthcare for the sick at the CatoCenter. The Government has given up finding a system of self-employment for services not included in current self-employment. I am pleased that a joint committee has not given up, and I ask that a new attempt be made to protect chroniclers and major users of healthcare. A lot of people are struggling with backaches. It was claimed that 80 pst. the population of the world will become acquainted with this painful and often debilitating scourge during its lifetime. National backbone networks have gathered knowledge and developed interdisciplinary clinical guidelines for cross-vertebral pain. It is very important that the Back Network now get 500,000 extra kroner to implement these in good models. An overall committee has asked the Government to develop a new action plan with further recruitment and stabilisation measures for nurses and other health professionals. The Christian People's Party would strongly stress that the action plan also needs to include measures on how to get more trained nurses back to the nursing profession. It is estimated that approx. 14,000 fully trained nurses do not practice their profession. A lot indicates that there is not only a salary to get them back. And it's urgent! Because we don't succeed in our health reforms if we don't have enough health professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e842	It is with regret that we record a sharp increase in the number of overdose deaths. So far, 120 people have been killed by overdoses in Oslo. This is an increase of 20 pst. in relation to 1999, when we had 99 overdose deaths. This year’s figures are soon as high as in 1998, when the number of overdose deaths in the capital was the highest ever. Many hoped that last year a positive trend with ever fewer overdose deaths began. Unfortunately, this would not work. We have the same trend in Bergen. In Hamar, a teenage girl died of an overdose for a short time. The number of injecting drug users has doubled in the last 10 years, estimated at between 9 000 and 12 000 people. The drug problem is spreading rapidly to all parts of the country. Heroin and amphetamines are seized in 51 and 53 of the 54 police districts of the country, respectively. The number of police districts struggling with ecstasy has increased from 26 to 37 in 1999. In prisons, too, drug use is increasing dramatically. Last year, 391 drug findings were made and 1 128 user equipment findings, an increase of 81 pst. and 78 pst. since 1992. Over 2,000 urine samples among prisoners detected drug use. We have to recognise that we have not succeeded in reducing drug abuse in this country. Unfortunately, the number of drug users is increasing. Users are getting younger and those who die of overdose are getting younger and younger. Norway is the country in Europe with most overdose deaths. More action is needed to reduce drug use. Prevention is very important, but difficult and challenging. The organisation and implementation of prevention measures is as important as the desire for ever-increasing appropriations for this important work. One of the main objectives of the Government and the Storting is to be able to provide a treatment offer that makes users drug free. We still need to maintain this main objective, while recognising that for some, the best solution will be the provision of medically assisted rehabilitation. I will benefit from this opportunity to thank the Social Minister for the grip she has taken and the understanding she has shown about measures to improve the quality of life of users. I am pleased that we have a government council that does not have the same attitude as SV to medically assisted treatment. In the debate on medically assisted treatment, we have too easily forgotten the alternative users have. Too many people are saddened by overdose deaths. In addition to medically assisted treatment, it is essential to ensure that users are provided with drug-free accommodation, employment, education and a health service. It is important to raise the status of those who are at the very bottom of the social ladder, and I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee has given recognition to the work carried out by the User's Association Tønenberg, and granted 0.5 million. kr to their work next year. I am convinced that this allocation will give the association the opportunity to operate as it is supposed to be driven: for, with and by the users. The government’s drug commission warns against the problems associated with the lack of follow-up of drug users after they have been in treatment. I allow myself to quote the following from a report the sample has prepared for the Government: ‘If this link fails in the chain, the use of resources at home will be less beneficial. ... The challenge will be to find an effective follow-up, possibly alternative, to the different client groups.’ The State Tobacco Injury Council has contributed significantly increased resources in recent years. Unfortunately, too many people smoke in Norway. We have a long way to go before we meet the WHO objective. I am pleased that the Tobacco Injury Council will focus more strongly on local measures, including: with their own prevention advisors in each country. I am less satisfied with, yes, surprised that the Right will reduce the appropriations for this important work by 12 million. kr next year. This corresponds to a reduction of approx. 30 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e873	One of the main tasks of the public is to ensure that the whole population is treated by disease and the necessary safety and safety in old age. For the Right, the security of individuals is at the heart of welfare policy. Security is primarily our ability and ability to take responsibility and to take care of ourselves and our closest friends. Most people in Norway live well in today’s society. But the very weakest, the sickest elderly, drug users and psychiatric patients lack sufficient care. It is therefore necessary to have a targeted and accurate health and social policy, which takes care of those who really need care, and those who, for various reasons, fall outside the safety network. It's worth your while to work. Aid schemes must be designed in such a way as to assist self-help rather than dependence. The safety net shall not capture people and create clients, but shall help the individual to become independent and enable everyone to participate in society. It requires high quality health, care and social services and is available when we need them. Health surveillance has demonstrated, through extensive studies, serious quality deficiencies in the care of the elderly. The need for new solutions and modernisation, which can ensure a good and worthwhile offer for the elderly and caregivers, is evident. There is a broad political consensus that good care services should be a public responsibility. The disagreement is about how public accountability is to be taken into account. The most important thing for the Right is that the public finances and imposes requirements on the quality of services. Who carries them out is less important. By separating the order role and the delivery role, we can help to raise awareness of the quality of the health and care sector. Competitive outsourcing and privatisation are not the same, although the opponents try to manufacture it in such a way. Privatisation means a public discharge of responsibilities. This is not the case with regard to the outsourcing of elderly care. The outsourcing of care services improves the use of both money and staff. The municipality is becoming more concerned with documenting the quality of its services, both in the municipality’s own and in private institutions. And as I was in my reply to the Minister for Social Affairs, this is not a question of ideological choice, but of practical policy. It's an important tool, not a goal. No, the goal is more and better services and good offers adapted to individual needs. Sufficient and differentiated quality offers and solutions are important — traditional nursing homes, nursing homes with small communities, nursing homes with and without day care, but also the possibility of living in your own home with care and care if you need it. I would like to stress that nursing homes are an important foundation in the care of the elderly, and the need for nursing homes needs to be ensured. Like the Minister of Social Affairs, the right is very concerned about the strong growth of sick leave. Social security expenditure on sick pay is estimated to increase by 27 pst. from 2000 to 2001. The Sandman Committee’s investigation has demonstrated that Norway is in a special class in Europe in terms of sickness pay, and that in Norway it is probably the only social benefit without any form of self-employment. The benefits you receive after one year of sick pay or disability pension are significantly below the salary you would have had if you had continued to work. Sweden’s experience shows that changes in the sickness pay system in the 1990s indicate that a moderate proportion of the labour market reduces sick leave and reduces public and business expenditure. Right proposes a system of abstinence on sick leave for those who are sick only occasionally, but not for the absence of a child’s disease. The right also wants to strengthen the system of purchasing health services for sick persons so that more people come out of the treatment queue and return to work. It's earned both individually and in society. On the right, operations and health insurance paid by the employer are exempt from taxation both for the employer and for the employee. In today’s labour shortage situation, it is unacceptable that people have been diagnosed for a long time pending treatment. The right will also follow up the Sandman Committee’s proposal for changes to the disability pension scheme. Many unemployed people have a significant residual capacity to work as income earners. This reserve of labour needs to be exploited better. In line with the Sandman Committee, the Right wants permanent disability pension to be granted only to those who are 100 pst. disabled, with no prospect of a better working capacity. In the case of unearned retired persons with residual working capacity, the basis for unearned pensions shall be assessed on a regular basis. And it has to be easier to combine work and social security. Right wants to change the rules on how much you can earn next to the disability pension, so that the disability pension is gradually reduced in the face of labour income. As the scheme is today, it is unfortunate and counters the increase in labour input by unearned pensioners. Unfortunately, the right did not get through to increase the limit of what can be earned without shortening the pension from one to two times the basic amount of the people's fear. But we are pleased to have reached a majority in favour of the Government making a proposal to the Stortinget as soon as possible for permanent support for work trips for disabled people who are unable to use public transport or to drive a car by themselves. The right cannot accept that disabled people who want to work end up in a disability because they do not receive support to get to work. The government is asked to assess the possibility of special-car patients being remunerated at national rates using their own car in cases where the option is that the social security covers air travel. The government is also asked to facilitate the provision of medical treatment to patients who have a long journey to a hospital or hospital, for example. cell toxicity treatment, at the place of residence, where medically sound. Right would give you 50 million. to training institutions so that they could cover a greater part of their costs in order to ensure a sound offer. Unfortunately, we did not get through to that. Nor did we get a pass to approve the CatoCenter in Akershus as a rehabilitation institution now. But we expect the Spring Government to give such approval, so that the operation can be ensured. The provision of rehabilitation for severely brain damaged children is deficient, and the Right is pleased that the Department sees the need to use different treatments in the rehabilitation of severely brain damaged children, including intensive training such as the Doman method. Kids are different, the same is the families, and they have different needs and resources. Therefore, the benefits of different rehabilitation and habilitation facilities will vary. It is important that parents have an freedom of choice in relation to the different treatment arrangements, and those parents who want long-term intensive treatment for their child are today not satisfied with this need within the Norwegian healthcare system, but must go to the United States or Russia. There is a need to establish a similar offer in Norway, and the Right is very pleased to have got the rest of the committee to ask the Government to consider establishing a treatment offer or resource centre for the Doman method for brain-damaged children in Norway. It will in the long term make the situation considerably easier for the families and children concerned. In the end, I would like to refer to a proposal from the Labour Party and the Advance Party that it should be opened up for general medicine specialists who, upon application, are to be able to prescribe drugs to drug users. This is a very difficult area. A more liberal prescription policy argues that it could help more addicts — drug users who have tried all other treatments without success — return to a better and more worthwhile life, as the Minister of Social Affairs so correctly described it. But against this, the danger of polydrug use and the development of black markets for these drugs speaks. The dilemma is that on the one hand we have the opportunity, but there are also things that contradict. But if we can save more people, we must be able to live with the risk it entails. As the Committee knows, the right-wing committee was in doubt if we should support this proposal. The proposal was very late in the discussion in the committee, and we did not have the opportunity for a broader assessment in the big group before giving up the vote. But on the assumption of control and follow-up in other areas, as described by the Minister of Social Affairs, we have now come to the conclusion that we want to support this proposal. However, I would like to stress that the work to prevent drug use, as well as drug-free treatment, must continue with full strength.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e914	The draft budget for the year and the budgetary agreement have the best distribution profile in many years, but we still have a great task to do to ensure that the distribution is properly distributed. From our point of view of the social committee, we can clearly see that there is a need to improve the distribution of our society. Some people think that just we spend a lot of oil money, all the sorrows are off and everyone can get it right. But it's probably not that simple. There will not automatically be a better distribution of collecting more money without the money being distributed as fairly as possible. It just leads to the richest getting even richer, while those who have little will not notice any change. If we are to succeed in lifting those who have little, those who have much have to give something more to the community – it's that easy. When TV or newspaper reports address individual issues and when the difficult life situation of individuals is expanded, there is a strong response from both women and men and from politicians from all parties. This is a nice reaction, but we can't have it this way in the future that it's the ones that the media take an interest in, that's going to get help, while everyone else has to keep living with their social problems. That's why we need a stronger public community, with good distribution that includes everyone. This should be possible in a welfare state, but then there must be political will for a better distribution. Better distribution forms the basis of the year's draft budget and is maintained in the budgetary agreement, and I hope that this profile can be continued in future budgets. I have recorded that the Workers' Party's efforts for a stronger community and a better redistribution have fallen the Progress Party and the Right Heavy for the chest. This was not least surprising because these parties do not have a policy and an ideology that puts Community solutions so high on the agenda. In these parts, they go the opposite way, among other things. by proposing a drastic weakening of the sickness pay scheme for ordinary workers. It is proposed to introduce excesses — or taxes on disease, as it is said — that far exceed what we already have of excesses. If they were to be heard for such suggestions, we would probably soon notice that the number of those in need of social assistance would grow. Everyone knows that being affected by disease is difficult enough, and when economic problems are added, the situation can be hopeless. Many can dock entirely innocently in the backyard of the welfare state. Such cuts usually only hit ordinary people and those who have the least to walk with from before. We also need a stronger community in order to be able to provide better social organisation for people with disabilities. There's a lot left here, and I think it's too late to put this in place. I am very pleased with the effort that is being made to create a good and safe care for the elderly. Very positive has occurred in the municipalities for the care of the elderly since the 1997 retirement plan was launched. We've got a lot of new nursing homes and homes, and there's been a lot of modernisation of older building masses. Not all municipalities will come to an end with their plans under the financial framework laid down in the 1997 ageing plan. For this reason, the Government has proposed that a further 5,000 new nursing homes and nursing homes be built until 2005. The best thing about state investment is that municipalities have strong governance, so that the offers are organised according to local needs and conditions. It is the municipalities that have the best overview of the local needs, and it is the municipalities that must therefore have the overall responsibility to organise the services for our older people. This I believe we can see works well in most places and at their best.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e940	We live in a welfare state, in a rich country with many resources and opportunities to care for and further develop the welfare state. The largest resource is the people: the work effort and the knowledge. Then we have the oil money, which enables us to bet money. But we need people to do the job. There's no use in money if we don't have a workforce. The Stoltenberg Government presented its first budget for the Stortinget on 4 October this year, a budget with increased spending on the common resources and a fairer distribution, and a budget that provides security for work and the personal economy. The negotiations with the central parties led, and I am pleased that the agreement means that the main priorities of the Government's draft budget have been respected. I am also pleased that important health areas are well cared for, because we still have many unsolved tasks. We've had a lot of hearings in the committee and received a lot of useful input. The problems that have been pointed out have been taken seriously. But we can't do everything at once. We have to give priority, otherwise we can risk spending more money than the economy can bear and thus expose people to interest rate growth and to failure to compete and lose jobs. Psychiatrics are increased by 992 million. kr for operation, in relation to the expenditure level in 1998. An overall committee has underlined the need for a much stronger effort in this area in the coming years, as foreseen in the psychiatry escalation plan. But we have to have the time to train people to do the services. I welcome the broad political consensus on this initiative. For too long, psychiatry was a small priority area, but St.meld. No 25 for 1996-97, Transparency and fullness. The need for mental illness and the provision of services became apparent. There was also broad agreement on the escalation plan when the Stortinget had it for treatment in the spring of 1997. But it is still the case that the daily press still has issues of psychiatry failure, and it is important to stress that the offers that exist should not be dropped until new ones are in place, and that the framework appropriations should ensure this. The escalating plan shall improve the offer and the visibility of the offer is so small after only two years. In the municipalities there are day centres open, and there are people with special skills. In many places, there is good cooperation with user associations on the development. It was reported in the newspaper a few days ago that 23,000 children and young people under the age of 18 were being treated for their mental health problems last year. That's about 30 pst. more than four years ago. But despite the fact that more people are being treated, it is still not enough. The waiting lists are long. On average, young people under 18 years of age wait 67 days for treatment, while adults wait 48 days. I would like to mention specifically that in this year's budgetary position a majority also refers to the importance of work and employment measures for people with mental disorders. Between 1998 and 1999, there was an increase of 555 people who received interventions through Aetat, i.e. an increase of 6 pst. There are also attempts at wage subsidies to compensate for temporary reductions in working capacity, a system that I think will be beneficial for people with mental disorders. Several ASVO companies have skills and job opportunities for these people. Physical birth is good therapy. The lack of resources in psychiatry over many years has limited the possibility of such services. I am therefore pleased that it is a majority to support the Ski and Summer Festival, a very good initiative that motivates people with mental disorders to master physical birth and social intercourse. The use of horses is also considered useful in therapy. Those who work with such physical activities tell about the joy of mastering and about the motivation for training, competition and participation socially. I think we have every reason to say that we are doing well to strengthen the psychiatry. Plans for further development are in good hands across the country. There is reason to be optimistic on behalf of the build-up of the years that are coming, because there is a willingness to take on the task, and there is a broad political consensus on the bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e970	The Workers' Party is committed to ensuring that welfare schemes give as much opportunity as possible – based on their own abilities – to participate in work and social life. Nevertheless, many barriers to staying in the labour market — either on a full-time or part-time basis. The social security system is responsible for close contact between the employee, the employer, the doctor and the labour market seat in order to increase the opportunity for sick people to remain in the labour market. These have different measures available, such as: active sick leave, additional on-the-job equipment and grants for work travel. The test system for purchasing health care for the sick is stepped up from the next year so that the sick are given shorter waiting time and returns to work more quickly. The cost of health care is estimated to be 50 million. kr. In order for the population to see welfare policy as fair, public health must act as an insurance system. The amount of benefits must be proportionate to the expenditure needs, the loss of income and the taxes paid and the social security charge. There is a crucial difference between popular and market-based insurance schemes. Social security also guarantees benefits to members who have never had the opportunity to pay social security contributions. There have been claims in recent times of widespread abuse of our social security system. Many signals suggest that this may have been done with consideration and in organized forms. I am pleased that the Minister of Social Affairs was quick to point out the seriousness of any fraud, and that it is being cleared up in this. The police are now dealing with criminal matters. It has also been quick to identify schemes to detect such abuses in the future. It is with concern that we record a strong increase in expenditure both for the sick and for the disabled. One of the reasons for this increase is that we have a particularly high employment rate in the population. Another reason could be the great pressure on the workplace today. Everyone is expected to be able to deliver 100 pst. And I guess so. It does not have to be that you cannot get sick when you feel unwell. We must also not suspect people who have no other way out than the disability benefit. It should be a right that can be accepted with a good conscience. However, we are deeply concerned about the increase in the unemployability of people between 16 and 34 years of age. One might ask: Is this also a result of an increasingly demanding working life? More rehabilitation money has been put in so that those with a view to improvement will have a longer period of time to clarify their health status. The question must now be: what are you allowed to do? And not: are you sick enough to get disability benefit? Obliging long-term unemployed beneficiaries of social assistance in work is demanding, but it is important that vulnerable groups do not get out of work. Employer is responsible for the work environment and for rehabilitation at work. Making good use of physical and social conditions at work is good, preventive health work also done by the employer and society. In the case of persons with disabilities, it is essential to provide the necessary assistance to enable individuals to enter and maintain work. Disabled persons may also retain their social security benefits during schooling. The employer may receive financial compensation for reduced working capacity. There are 70 000 poor children registered in Norway, i.e. children who are not provided with the most necessary care for a child. These children have become experts in expounding the poor economy of their parents, which is why they cannot participate in leisure activities and children’s associations like others. The reason for this poverty is usually lack of work, but may also be illness or disability. By doing more for these most disadvantaged, many families can be helped and the children get a more normal life. A review of the State indicative rates of social benefits requires that the needs of children are taken into account hereafter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1001	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1004	We hear a lot about deficiencies in the country's health and social services, also deficiencies that need to be corrected. But a Norwegian health and social budget is, above all, a good message; to say something else would be to neglect the truth. We have a social minister who has raised the issue of drug abuse and who has a very offensive attitude towards treatment and rehabilitation, not least in the case of heavy drug users. The ageing effort of time through the action plan on care for the elderly is continued and expanded with a further 5,000 nursing homes and nursing homes with associated resources. The disability action plan is continued. We have a Minister of Health who takes on the challenges of health in a powerful way. The national cancer plan and the cancer rate of approximately DKK 2 billion are implemented as planned, including: with the expansion of the lack of radiation capacity. During 2001, the last three counties will also be covered by the mammography screening programme. The equipment investment plan with approx. NOK 3 billion are reported to be on the route. After three years, the psychiatry action plan provides municipalities with a budget of DKK 1 billion more in 2001 than in 1998, i.e. the last year before the plans were implemented. The growth of these funds will also increase in the remaining years of the planning period, as mentioned earlier here today. Health-oriented research is gaining a boost towards a level that we need to reach in the course of about two years. five years. The instruments used in hospital operations include, inter alia: aimed at stimulating the use of healthcare funds more effectively for patient treatment. Finally, from 1 June 2001, a nationwide fixed medical device shall be in place. Now it's over with procrastinations and attempts at training. Nutritional biotechnology and genetic engineering are a new investment, and Norway now has to share in the enormous opportunities that are likely to lie there. The understanding of molecular mechanisms will provide a fresh insight into causes of disease and lead to new strategies and methods for the treatment of hereditary disorders and of disease related to the interaction between inheritance and environmental conditions. The ‘National Council for the Specialised Training of Doctors and the Distribution of Doctors’ is used to provide far better distribution in the case of doctors for the benefit of municipal health services. There are positive things happening on the rehabilitation side, including: Extension of the Glithralline, our competence center for highly specialized lung rehabilitation. However, much remains to be done to improve the geographical distribution of training places, which the Ministry must take into account when approving new institutions or extending existing ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1030	I am very pleased that the Storting for a while back granted approx. EUR 1 billion for the treatment of patients abroad. However, it is important that we remember that a number of people in Norway provide healthcare that is not fully exploited. It's important that we also exploit this resource. What I want to get into is a health centre in Ålesund that has applied for hospital status, because you want to make better use of the capacity. They therefore want to establish five observation beds at the hospital. It has been a long time since this institution applied for such an authorisation, and the majority of the Health and Social Committee in More and Romesdal have recommended such an application. I think that approving this institution so that it gets hospital status, in a much better way, can help patients who are already in long queues to get into the hospitals in the county. I hope that the Council of State can say something about this matter soon, and I hope, of course, that the Council of State can tell us today that he will meet the application, so that we can take advantage of the opportunity that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1039	I would like to comment on two aspects – first, the drug field. The central part of the government was given the opportunity to strengthen this area. We put the search light on both prevention, treatment, new follow-up measures and the control page, and we followed up with extra promises. Here is a clear need for extra attention and strengthening. I understand the Social Minister's point of responsibility for the municipalities. However, I am very concerned about the situation in 2001. The government says they're strengthening the prevention work. They actually do it by cutting the repair page and transferring more responsibility to the municipalities. Then comes the alarming messages from the municipalities these days. They have more expenditure than income in spite of the clear increase in revenue and despite the fact that the budget agreement resulted in an additional 1 250 million. kr. Today, when the headlines tell of a reduction in the number of kindergartens, we know that everything is cut both in the provision of the disabled and in the field of drugs. There is then limited funding for support contacts, voluntary organisations and volunteer centres, and prevention is at risk of being reduced and treatment provision, follow-up and aftertreatment cut. This is about a more valuable life for many. It's about bigger and new hope for many relatives, and it's about some people's ability to survive. I hope that the Minister for Social Affairs will stress that she will follow the situation closely, and I will ask her to report back so that the Stortinget may follow up in the context of both the revised budget and the Community proposal. The second theme is the situation in the pharmacies sector. The Central Party finds it necessary to ask the Minister of Health to clarify how he is now following up the Stortinget's intention with new pharmacies legislation: greater availability when it comes to medicines – in our poor geography – and at a lower price. A new ownership structure has been developed in the short term. Strong foreign interests are on the way in. They appear to be most concerned about strengthening the drug supply where it is already the best in the central eastern region. The Health Minister follows up on himself, with the way he awards new concessions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1055	I think I got a slightly vague response from the social minister when it was about the economy in relation to the drug field. I'm still on that $14 million. kr which is the reduction and which at least has to be re-entered in order to provide the centres of excellence with a good enough economy, must not be taken for other purposes. In the case of medically assisted rehabilitation facilities, I could have thought about what the price tag is on it, whether the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Minister have looked at what this will cost. As rapporteur for, among others: The section on the State Institute of Public Health, I would like to say that I hope that the work on hospital infections will now be intensified and that clear guidelines will be put in place for hospitals. The same applies in the case of antibiotic resistance and multi-resistant tuberculin basills. In terms of asthma and allergy research and prevention there, I also hope that it can be seen more in relation to reducing risk factors. And in that context, as I mentioned in my first post, the food makeup issue is a significant issue. The action plan against HIV and AIDS was expanded somewhat, and I hope that it can be continued and intensified especially in terms of part of the prevention side. As far as research is concerned, more have been involved. I hope that now there will be a proper boost in relation to research, not least in cancer research, that the cancer plan will be prioritised, and that more funds will be put in there. Some things have been shown in the attitude regarding the relatively low consumption of cancer research, even though we have come out well in the planning period. Otherwise, I want to say that within psychiatry, we're at least happy that through the agreement we got 70 million. SEK to – 50 million. NOK 20 million for the municipalities. Dr to the counties, and that there is a particular focus on child and youth psychiatry, and within it eating disorders. The training institutions get a difficult year, but we got at least 35 million. extra to improve the provision of funding there. And I hope that there will be a clarification of the funding there is going to be possible, so that the predictability of the institutions also gets better. And then I'm very happy that we got 10 million. kr to cardiovascular and pulmonary disease and the special clinic that we have at Glittre. In line with that, I would also like to say that there are positive leads from a joint committee here regarding the Bygland training centre and LHL's cooperation plans with the municipality of Røro in terms of a centre of competence in heart rehabilitation. RIT is more affected, and there's a broad majority comment on it, so I'm not going to go into it, but I want to say in the end that it's important that we look more at the causes of the negative health and social sector than what we've done now. Increased drug use and increasing numbers of targets have become the fast food of the health and social sector when we debate. And as you know, such a diet is not very healthful — especially in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1076	It's limited what you get to say in three minutes, so there's few things you can get into. I noticed that Are Næss was in the RIT 2000 and possibly earlier state acquisition and the majority comments that lie there. And I think Are Næss has a very central point. I thought it was a dilemma to decide whether to go into the majority or, in principle, stay outside that majority, assuming that there is a discrimination – for that matter. This is essentially done by getting the state to look at the development of the RIT and its financing. And it is clear that avoiding that discrimination requires this to create precedent – it must be clear. This means that when other major hospital projects are to be assessed in the near future, it is also necessary to allow the state to enter and assume responsibility financially and on a planned basis in relation to the expansion of hospitals. Otherwise it would be totally unreasonable. So on behalf of SV, I would like to stress that this is how we perceive that decision. We perceive that this, of course, also requires a state involvement when the states otherwise labor in relation to the construction projects and their realization, if the county then has expectations, as one had in the South-Tronde Team, that the state should go in. Then we were to deal with the matter of the CatoCenter, the Document No. The 8-proposal that I have promoted to ensure the operation of it. I am pleased that there have been signs from the department that indicate that this will be put in place in the long term. At the same time, I have noticed that there are comments from the majority that, if it is not stated correctly, can be seen in the direction that you have, in a sense, taken care of by building the center. That's what I think is going to be a very crazy angle of incidence. I think that a lot of what is seen by Norwegian training institutions and rehabilitation institutions is created by firemen who believe in what they're doing, who see that there's a need and who's going on. Building itself is actually not illegal. Planning for that type of establishment is not illegal. Then, of course, the state has to decide for itself whether this is appropriate or not. I am aware that representatives from most parties have been present and seen on the CatoCenter and the amazing things that have been done. I now expect that in the coming year, there will also be reimbursement schemes related to its operation, because there is a need for the type of rehabilitation for most different groups of the population who have significant disabilities that need to be rehabilitated. Finally, about drug treatment. I do not think that the Minister of Social Affairs has at all been credible in making it clear what kind of place the general practitioners should have in relation to treatment with Subutex and methadone. On the contrary, she has made it clear that there is a need for entirely different measures — housing, overall drug care, long-term work measures on the drug user, etc., which are far from being coordinated by the general practitioner. Therefore, it is artificial that the general practitioner is so central to that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1089	I'll just briefly come back to this with the drug treatment. The first thing I want to say is that there is no contrast between conventional rehabilitation and treatment for drug users and medically assisted treatment. It's because those poor people who don't get results in the conventional apparatus need medically assisted rehabilitation to almost regain their former quality of life for themselves, their closest and their immediate environment. There are two things that the Minister of Social Affairs should remember. One – conventional treatment or rehabilitation – is to ensure that treatment services are available when the patient is motivated for treatment, and then I think of the specialist health service, i.e. the county authorities’ responsibility to provide accommodation. We are still told that this is going to fail completely in a lot of states. Thus, no progress has been made in relation to this individual patient. The second problem that the social minister must also address is that most treatment institutions in the so-called conventional treatment system do not accept patients until they are sober. But how should a drug addict be motivated to become sober before he or she can be treated? It's a hopeless situation. A person must not have been much in contact with that type of addict in order to understand that this is a hopeless situation. So we have too few so-called detoxification stations, both in terms of substance and alcohol, so that we can take care of these patients when they take the initiative to get help through social services or via themselves. Then we don't have to meet them: you're going to get help, but come back in three weeks when you're sober. It doesn't matter! But that's actually the situation. Then back to the proposal in the vote, which will be adopted, now also with the Right vote. It is proposed that drug treatment be given to ‘drug users who may benefit from it following a medical evaluation’. My view of this is at least that it is the same specialist in general medicine who should assess, as in any other medical consultation, whether the patient can benefit from such treatment and who can also carry out the treatment that this patient needs. You don't have to worry about problems here. They have been resolved in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1102	I asked for the floor because I was twice invited by the representative Nesvik to say something about a specific matter, namely the establishment of a private hospital in Ålesund. What I can say about that matter is that it's for treatment. It is approaching final treatment, and it will be taken into consideration in a very short time. I will come back to Stortinget with the matter as soon as it is finished. Once I have the floor, I would like to take the opportunity to comment on a question from the representative of Meltveit Kleppa concerning the practice of the new pharmacy law. It was a bill that was promoted by the previous government, and that was one of the first issues that this government was faced with in the Stortinget. The law implies, as intended, competition in this sector as well. It is the Competition Surveillance Authority which is to monitor that competition is such in all respects in our markets, and so far it seems to be going as intended. From a health policy point of view, we are concerned that this law also ensures a good coverage of pharmacies throughout the country. We have instruments to do that. We set concession ceilings, and now we're working on it for pharmacies in central districts. There are arrangements for district pharmacies support. Municipalities can set up pharmacies if they want to. We can also set concession terms to e.g. chains wishing to operate pharmacies in central districts, that they should also engage in pharmacies in the districts. I can conclude that we have the necessary means to meet the health policy objectives set. I can assure you that they will also be used to the extent that it turns out to be necessary. There is a first pharmacies concession round now, and I also believe on the basis of it that we will see that this will be a law that works according to purpose, both competitive and health policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1113	The representative Glaucoma asked for funding when we are now decentralizing prevention measures in relation to drug abuse. We have decentralised parts of the Directorate of Drugs activities to seven different centres of expertise. The allocation was somewhat reduced. What I can say about the $14 million. As these measures have been reduced, since this is a new scheme, we will, of course, be very careful about how the first year goes, and we will report back on it already in the revised national budget. Then there was also a question target from the same representative on the cost of drug-assisted rehabilitation. In my post, I said I'll come back to it in the revised budget, and I'll do that. We haven't changed the costs from last year to this year at all. The representative, Mr Ballo, said that I did not sufficiently justify why the general practitioner should be involved in drug-assisted rehabilitation. The most important reason for this is that drugs can and must be prescribed only by doctors, and so these doctors are scattered throughout the country. I think it is important to note that we have never had so much heroin in this country. It's cleaner than that, so it's more dangerous. We find it again all over the country, we have deaths all over the country, it is no longer a city phenomenon, and then the health care system throughout the country must also be upgraded in relation to this type of treatment. The representative Alvheim well illustrated how emergency services do not always work in relation to drug users. I'm going to go through the whole drug field to look at what's reasonable specialist treatment, and what's not, and will come back to Stortinget with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1126	For SV, fair distribution is essentially. How, then, can it be that a rich country like Norway has 70 000 poor children? It is incomprehensible that it is not possible to get an order on it. In the setting of the Spring Equalization Communication, a unanimous social committee wrote that it was an objective to eradicate poverty in Norway. It is not easy to see tracks that suggest that this is what has been at the top of the case map, either in the government's draft budget or in the subsequent budgetary negotiations. One of the most difficult groups is those who receive social assistance. The government and the majority have said that now you have to make norms for social assistance, and that should help. Yeah, does it? As this has been presented so far, we do not know anything about these tariffs yet, for example. how high they are supposed to be, but the worst thing is that no one is required to say that you are not allowed to go under this benefit. So it has to be a voluntary matter for the municipalities whether they want to follow these rates or not. For me who sits on the municipal committee and knows municipal economy, it's easy to see how this works. Here, social clients are going to fight with the care of the elderly, who need money, with schools, who need to repair roofs and buy learning materials – so the poor are going to fight between themselves, and the rich state is not going to help lift social assistance. When the government presented the municipal economic proposition in spring, they said that these norm rates would have no impact on the government's contribution to the municipal sector. And maybe you can repeat that the local government sector has got more money than they had before. Yes, they do, but they have received a lot more tasks as well, and the tasks they have been assigned cost much more than the sum of money they have received. I would like to think soon to hear from the Government whether they have changed their view of this point, whether it is so that the Government now soon believes that it is reasonable that the rich state is involved in raising the poorest. It cannot be the right principle, then, that when the poorest are to be lifted, action is taken on other important social issues, such as care for the elderly, health services or schools, which are to be deprived of money, in order to give those who are going to social assistance a decent life.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1137	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[See pages 1338 and 1371]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1151	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1372]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1165	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1374]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1179	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1376]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1193	The Party for Progress shall have in this Document No. The 8-proposal pointed out the importance that the Stortinget does not go to the drastic step of shutting down the curatorial offices in Fredrikstad, Tønsberg, Arendal, Stavanger, Bergen, Trondheim, Bodø and Tromsø from 31 December 2001. The proposers wish this deadline to be extended until 31 December 2005. This centralisation provided for in the Curator Offices could create major problems for those in need of this service. The party of progress is of the opinion that the war invalids are now in a phase of life that too many can be very bad and difficult. In addition to the natural ageing process, our war invalids also have their war injuries to bear. The Progress Party fears that those currently working in public health and social services do not have sufficient knowledge of the special needs of the war disabled and their response, which can often be very different from other older people. The Progress Party is alone in wanting to maintain the curator's offices outside Oslo. I am promoting the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1202	Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1205	I really didn't intend to take the floor, but I think there's a reason to clarify two things that the representative Nesvik was about. One was that this is a very centralization, and that's that far. The second was that there would create great problems for some of those who have been served by these offices. This case started in the 1980s when it came to assessing the future of national aid and its agencies. In 1995 there was a new round. At that time, it was actually decided to continue the activities of the curators' offices by 1999. Then the Oslo office would take over everything and later be terminated in consultation with the department. So we've actually expanded what was planned in 1995 for what was going to happen in 1999. An overall committee has said that no one should lose opportunities and rights to any statutory benefits through the closure of district offices, and assistance and assistance should continue to be provided as necessary. We have also said that it is important that the competence of the National Association’s Regional Office today should be extended to other relevant bodies in the respective districts. Similarly, we believe that what is made of material in terms of records and material otherwise in the district offices should be collected and registered at the Oslo office, so that it is in the best possible position to continue the assistance work also to individuals, and that what is now established in Oslo should be an active information and guidance office. A joint committee also says that the ministry must take note of this and take account of these circumstances and promote a proposal for the establishment and operational basis of the National Aid Oslo Office, which will enable it to carry out these tasks. I want to clarify it from the pulpit, because this is actually a collective committee. And I think it was very right of the Progress Party that they agreed to it, so at least there's a clear lead from the whole social committee that this is the prerequisite.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1218	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1377]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1232	Document No 8:63 for 1999-2000 by the representatives Olav Gunnar Ballo and John I. Alvheim, on amendments to the regulations of the public interest on the reimbursement of air ambulance transport costs, are proposed by a unanimous committee attached to the minutes. This is related to the Government of St. Prp. No 25 for 2000-2001, on changes in appropriations under the national budget for 2000, proposed an increase of 5 million. kr to cover return transports by ambulance aircraft and to amend the regulations of the Law on Social Security. The reason for the proposal was that the previous government proposed – and the Stortinget decided – that return transport between institutions should not be covered by popular security unless the transfer took place for emergency medical reasons, as determined in the regulation of popular security. This provision had not been followed up before in practice, and therefore county authorities who wanted to use aircraft for return operations were now to cover their own costs. It is part of the story that the National Auditor had asked for a statement from the National Auditor's Office on why this kind of mission had been covered by popular fear, as the Minister of Social Affairs said in the UK Question Time. It's the three northernmost states being charged 85 pst. the costs of return operations, while the remaining 15 pst. divided into six counties. Eleven counties do not have such expenses at all. The reason for this inequality is long distances and often very turbulent weather in winter. It may not be acceptable for a newly-operative patient such as have been located at the Regional Hospital in Tromsø and will be sent home to the Churches or to one of the other hospitals in North Norway, to be sent by car. The road is long, there may also be a need for ferries somewhere, and the weather may be rusty. When you look at the distance on the map, even a surety looks like me that this is going to be out of date. Aeroplanes must be used. And freight on regular scheduled flights is complicated by the development of a European legislation relating to the approval of carriers in aeroplanes. This involves the installation of fastening devices for scheduled flights to be approved for such transport, a cost that airlines would have demanded reimbursement by the State. The Rikstrøgdeverket has informed the Ministry that the best solution is to enable patients to travel by ambulance. The air ambulance aeroplanes will be entrusted with the following tasks covered by the social security scheme: 1st@item: inlistbox Primary mission — emergency summit where the patient is outside the hospital2. Secondary tasks — emergency summits in which the patient is in hospitals where transport takes place from a lower to a higher level3. Hospital accommodation or outpatient transport services of stretchers Ambulance aeroplanes also transport return platforms and it will be difficult to distinguish between stretcher and return services. In addition, county councils are unable to manage backlogs because the patient is often admitted to another county. The transport is managed by the hospitals and their AMK or flight coordination centres. This is a small group of patients, but a relatively large expenditure item for the three northernmost states. It is natural that the state has total responsibility for all patients transported by plane. I am therefore very pleased that the Government is proposing this change in the financial responsibility and that the regulation is amended. That being the case, the proposal has been accepted and is hereby annexed to the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1273	I don't know if the expression 'to take the wit' is unparliamentary, but at least the ministry has now finally taken the point of this case. In the context of the State budget for 2000, a decision was also taken to recover the costs from the counties. I have later read through the wording of the department, and it was impossible at that time to catch up with the whole issue. It won't be possible now either. If you listen to the rapporteur's presentation and to the extent that you read the statements made by the department, you must at least use a lot of time and effort to understand the ministry's problems in the explanation given in relation to the cause. I'm glad you're cutting through. The Ministry now gives exactly the same reason for removing the scheme that we proposers did when we delivered Document No. The 8th proposal. But what I'm less happy about is that you have to use so much energy to turn the department into a matter that should obviously have been solved from the start. I had a question to the Social Minister on the same matter on 10 May this year. The Minister of Social Affairs then argued that these expenses should be borne by the states, not by the state. Then you realized that here you had to have a suggestion to turn this around. I think the ministry, with a greater degree of clarity, could have recognised that what was actually about to be applied to the counties was unreasonable, and that you should have turned right away. It would have been a victory for the social minister, too, if she had recognized the unfairness of it on her own and on her own. I am at least pleased that these costs are now to be covered by the state, which is quite reasonable. After all, the State is the one that has been saving for a long time by the fact that previous passenger air traffic services have carried out air ambulance operations. The Rikstrøgdeverket has also saved large sums of money. It should then be lacking that the State does not itself cover the costs instead of returning them to the counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1282	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1377]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1296	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1377]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1310	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1377]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1324	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1377]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1339	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1378]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1353	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1378]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1367	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1378]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1381	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1378]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1395	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1378]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1409	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for one speaker from each party group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replacement of lines with up to three lines with replies after the Council of State, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1414	The proposers refer to in Document No. The 8-proposal that the issue of the construction of gas power plants in Norway is closely linked to the question of how such gas power plants affect emissions in Europe and thus their overall emissions. The proposers want the Government to initiate a study on whether Norwegian gas power plants will reduce European CO2 emissions. This matter has been debated on several occasions in the last year or, to put it another way, on any possible occasion. Thus, the Government has presented the studies on the impact of Norwegian gas power plants on the total emissions of CO2 in Europe that have been carried out. The studies carried out show that it is most likely that the construction of Norwegian gas power plants will lead to a reduction in total CO2 emissions until the desired international agreements are in place. After that, the emissions will be regulated and will therefore decrease in any case. I don't think these parties will change their position even if there's one or more investigations in addition to the two already presented. I do not expect that the center and SV believe that a study will be carried out on this topic, which will conclude with 100 pst. security of the future. The ones that track by 100 pst. security of the future, does not belong to scientific environments. Both studies used by the Government for their assessments conclude that the construction of gas power plants in Norway is most likely to lead to a decrease in CO2 emissions. Sometimes it gets the impression that someone is trying to make ‘most likely’ to ‘equally likely’. Both a yes and a no to the construction of gas power plants will have to be based on a judgement about the effect in the future. The difference is that the ‘yes’ position is based on two independent studies, both of which conclude that gas power stations in Norway are most likely to have a positive impact on climate change emissions. The minority wonders about the procedure for examining this proposal and writes that the reason why the proposal has not been sent to the Ministry is that ‘the Ministry has expressed its opinion on this matter on so many occasions’. As the rapporteur, I have to say that I am wondering where these parties have this reason from. Have these batches now started a new practice, one adding other batches of reasons that are not reflected in the settings? An almost identical proposal for what is now being promoted was dealt with by Stortinget at the tamp of the previous session. The only difference is that the proposers now say that they want ‘a targeted study’, while they only said that they wanted ‘a study’. The documents submitted by the Government to the Stortinget show that there is a sound professional basis for the discretion of the Council of State in converting the emission permits to Natural Forces under the Pollution Act. On this basis, the majority of the Committee recommends that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1433	The rapporteur has explained the matter well, so there is no need for us to say so much. This has been discussed up the pillars and down the walls for many years. It has been evaluated by a number of agencies and organizations, and the gods must know who has not spoken on the occasion of the matter. All aspects of the case have been thoroughly elucidated and assessed. The proposers therefore propose that a so-called targeted and independent study be carried out, but the matter is well that the proposers have already decided what they think about this, quite independently of several studies. The size has decided that a gas power plant in Norway will have the same conditions as gas power plants in other countries. Continuing this debate in a rematch after a rematch is completely deserted. It mostly reminds me of a bad soap opera that never ends.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1442	We in the Progress Party see no reason for an investigation into whether the construction and operation of Norwegian gas power plants will lead to a reduction in European CO2 emissions. The reason for that is well-known. We are very sceptical and doubtful as to whether anthropogenic emissions of CO2 affect the climate to some extent. I have made many contributions in this room where I have explained and justified our scepticism to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, as well as that I have shown to researchers and scientists who believe there are completely different things, for quite natural reasons, who are involved in influencing our climate. It is such that the more a researcher on a matter, the more often one comes to other results. It is also happening in the climate debate, where researchers have abandoned the predictions of the United Nations Climate Panel and found that there are no man-made emissions of CO2 that affect the weather. Just to take an example, which does not have to do with changes: it appeared in the newspaper on Wednesday that rigid car tyres form life-threatening dust, as opposed to the use of tipping tyres. So in the past, the authorities have tried to get everyone in the big cities to drive smoothly, which now turns out to be life-threatening in terms of dust. In other words, more recent research is producing new results. It also happens in the climate debate, which more people in this room should notice. We have discussed several times in this room the so-called CO2 problem as this Document No. The 8 is about. With regard to the political assessment of whether gas power stations are desirable or not, the Progress Party is in line with the Labour Party and the Right in hand, and that is something we have been all along. In terms of law, we're in doubt, which we've explained to many times in this room. We therefore believe that as long as the SFT is the top professional authority in relation to the pollution law, the SFT should be free to assess whether the emissions from the planned gas power stations in Kollsnes and Kårstø are within the framework of the current pollution law. I do not intend to spend any more time on this matter, but refer to the comments on which the Progress Party is involved as well as the previous debates on the same subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1455	The majority dealt with a similar Document No. Eight proposals in June this year on an independent study on whether gas power plants in Norway lead to a total reduction or increase in emissions. Since that time, three conditions have changed. Since June, researchers of the gas and climate studies on which the Government bases its decisions have clearly stated, both in the media and in a consultation on the Storting, that there is considerable uncertainty as to whether the construction of gas power plants actually contributes to climate improvements. The only thing that's certain is that everything is uncertain, Torstein Bye in the Statistical Central Bureau has pronounced, among other things. at the hearing. He has also wondered about the use of his own results and material by the Government. Two underlying agencies, NVE and SFT, have also come up with different assessments of this very issue. The SFT, who is professionally responsible for pollution law, believes that everything is uncertain. The assessments of the President of the European Environment Agency also go in the opposite direction to that of the Government. This shows that new and independent analyses and assessments are undoubtedly needed. Since June, there has also been another gas power approval, in the form of a new CO2 emission permit, full release, in Forest. On the basis of correspondence between the Ministry of the Environment and the SFT and on the basis of the SFT's own justification for the emissions permit, there can be no doubt that one here has been faced with instructions from government and accumulation. In the decision of 9 March, to which reference is always made, there is actually a blank authorisation for new gas power stations without restrictions. It implies that an unlimited number of gas power permits can be granted, regardless of how this will affect the evolution of emissions in relation to CO2. With the instructions SFT has now received, it can quickly be referred to not 2 or 3, but 15 gas power stations, if it would be economically justified. There's a difference between dropping 2 million. tonnes of CO2 on which the analyses are based and 15, also for the international emission accounts. It raises the question of and the need for new investigations. Since June we have also experienced a breakdown in The Hague. It may take a long time before the rules of the game, both in terms of quota systems and other flexible mechanisms, are in place. The assumptions underlying the analysis of researchers, namely a fully developed international system of allowances, are simply not present. One might say that there is a danger that researchers' analysis from several factors might actually be said to have expired. This too should update new investigations. However, what is most serious in this case is the role of the SFT. An almost collective committee has underlined the importance of SFT as a heavy and professional player in environmental management. At the same time, we feel that the role of the SFT is undermined by the same majority. The SFT does not provide a single professional justification for the release of the emissions permit. As the evening post quite rightly says in a leader on 30 November: ‘The SFT has taken its part in the decision with the pen... was effectively bound to hands and feet’. And on the other hand, ‘SFT was forced to surface to the extent that Industrial Power Mid-Norway is allowed to emit as much CO2 as requested.’ The director of the SFT, Håvard Holm, only refers to the fact that they have a clear framework for their treatment by the Ministry of the Environment. These are, as we know, based on a previous decision on aggregates. As such so-called clear frameworks did not exist in the treatment of the emission permits for Kårstø and Kolsnes under the previous government, the SFT made its own professional judgement, and Naturkraft AS obtained strict emission conditions for CO2. The SFT then referred – in January 1999, if I am not completely wrong – among other things. that an international greenhouse gas reduction system under the Kyoto Protocol was not yet in place. The clearest sign of the SFT instruction is here. With the collapse in The Hague, the international system is even further ahead in time, and the rules of the game are even more vague than they were at the time. Based on SFT’s assessment, this should add even more stringent emission conditions for new gas power plants, following Kårstø and Kolsnes. But no, then – we feel the very opposite! When it is even more uncertain than before, the Forest Power Plant gets full release of CO2 – without any professional justification. It has to be obvious to everyone what has happened in the meantime. That is precisely why former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch has called this introduction of a new state custom, and I agree with that. The usual practice is to have the SFT do their job, to make an independent professional judgement in relation to the pollution law. The Ministry of the Environment will have the next opportunity to transform SFT decisions on the basis of policy assessments and decision-making. One might wonder what the same parties had said about the central government had instructed the SFT on this question earlier. I think most of us know what had happened then. The problem is not just that the independent professional role of the SFT in climate policy is undermined by perhaps the most important environmental issues of all. The problem is also what precedent the handling of this case can create. It should not be that a person accepts political override when he agrees, but protests when one disagrees. It is precisely in order to prevent such unfair practices that the principle of the independent professional responsibility of the underlying directorates is established. What has now happened in this matter shows that we need a thorough principled debate on this issue. That should interest the responsible parties in the Storting, many of whom like to call themselves. Since June I had hoped that the majority of people had ended up on this proposal and reconsidered their position. It is regrettable that this is not the case. I would like to address the proposal that the minority is behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1494	Hilde Frafjord Johnson has drawn up the proposal she herself did well for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1497	I want to show you the post that the representative Hilde Frafjord Johnson had just made, and so pay attention to me with a brief remark. An important background to the proposal of representatives of Hallgeir H. Langeland and Kristin Halvorsen is that the State's pollution regulators have not been able to produce independent professional assessments of greenhouse gas emissions from scheduled gas power plants. It is then logical to request that an independent clarification of this issue be carried out. The centre party supports such a requirement, and it should be in the government's interest to accept it, because, as you know, the government's main argument is that gas power plants in Norway will lead to reduced CO2 emissions in Europe. That is, the Government has moderated – the official expression is now ‘most likely’. So the doubt exists at this point, including those that support the gas power plans. Therefore, all documentation on the relationship between gas power generation in Norway and any impact on the environment abroad should of course be obtained. And even if no one can have ambitions about removing all doubt, we think that there's still a lot that's settled. There's been a lot of blows in the Storting about gas-fired sacs. The cause led to a government change, and we know that there is still a state of tension between the majority and the minority in this room. Saka is still of great public interest. The adoption of Document No. The 8 proposal can help to make the political temperature a little bit lower, because it can lead to a larger deal on the professional basis, and it's not on us at all. By rejecting the proposal, the fans of gas power plants will create the impression that they feel even less confident in their case than they express. In addition, the debate will continue on the same track, and will be slightly renewed. The responsibility for it lies with them who believe that everything is as it should be, despite thorough documentation that shows that there is considerable and unacceptable professional doubt on several important points. It is not satisfactory to base future decisions on expressions such as: ‘most likely’ measured against the standards laid down by the Justice Department. In any case, it must be important to reduce the voltage range contained in the expression ‘most likely’. We think that the elements of more facts here will be of the good, and also be absolutely necessary. I refer to the thorough observation that the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have gathered in the Committee. And, as I said, the Central Party supports Document No. The 8 proposal from the two representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1510	It's incomprehensible and disappointing that the majority doesn't want to help us gain a better understanding of an area as important as this is. There is liberalisation in the power market in Europe, and the link between what is happening in Norway and other parts of Europe is evident in some areas. But it also gives you a rash that you don't know. In such a liberalised market, it is known that in the case of Norwegian gas power stations, it can give results that are not the same in the short term as in the long term, and it is known that having one or two gas power stations can give other results than having five or ten gas power stations. It is incomprehensible to me that the majority does not want to have a debate and an information stream around these important issues, which could be central to decision-making, not only on the issue of gas power, but also on Norwegian energy policy in a European perspective, in which we need to see this. So this isn't a rematch, it's simply a scheme to get the necessary insights into contentious matters, in an important area where Norway is no longer defined as we have been in the past to a large extent. I also record that the Workers' Party does not want to take this opportunity to participate in climate prevention actions together with the Centre Parties, but continues to develop environmental policy together with the Right Parties. It's not right, as they said, that there's nothing new and that this has been discussed before. On the contrary, the hearing of the central parties and the SV with the Central Statistical Bureau and the Centre for Health provided new information and, not least, clarification of all the links that exist here, which is very complicated to get an overview. I believe it has been documented better than before that one could have benefited from a thorough investigation in this area. And then it has something to do with what goes on faith in the information that's on the table. What has happened on the part of the workers' party government in cutting the SFT on these questions makes the SFT operate with the pen held, and what is done by the SFT as a trades union body must be seen in that light. Therefore, it is an independent point to contribute to the provision of independent information so that a person can have confidence in the decision-making basis. Let me finally also say, like Frafjord Johnson of the Christian People's Party said, that it is with wonder that I have registered that this SFT bond in the gas power case is not only seen as an operation related to this particular case, but is actually seen as a viable way of dealing with such a professional body in a more general perspective, because as the Environment Minister said the other day in the Stortinget, it is the superiors, i.e. the politicians, who decide everything. I think it's a mix of roles that's very unfortunate. In our view, it should have been that the SFT made its decision on an independent and free basis, and the Ministry of the Environment could rather take an appeal procedure and take the matter up in another sample, if you wanted to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1525	Natural gas has a central place in a sustainable energy policy. Gas power can be an important instrument in this context. Natural gas can contribute to both safe and environmentally friendly energy supply by reversing much more polluting coal power. The government proposes significant research funding over next year's budget to generate CO2-free gas power technology. Conditions for the construction of gas power stations in Kollsnes and Kårstø are laid down to facilitate such technology. So you're well prepared when it's possible to use this technology. All use of gas in Norway shall be aligned with the Norwegian commitments under the Kyoto Agreement. In the guidelines provided by the Ministry for the treatment of gas-fired power stations, the decision of the Stortinge is based on the assumption that no stricter requirements are to be imposed than those applicable to gas-fired power stations in other countries. At the same time, it refers to monitoring Norway’s commitments under the Kyoto Protocol and to the need to base the concession treatment on the possibility of introducing new or changing instruments. Gas power plants will fall under the planned allowance system. The gas power case has received a very thorough treatment in recent years. The majority of the suspension we are dealing with today also underlines that the documents sent to Stortinget show that there is a good professional basis for the judgement exercised in the conversion case. In my examination of the case, I have based on the available supporting documentation, as well as obtained additional professional assessments of the legal, engineering and energy nature. Below, I have obtained up-to-date assessments from the energy authorities of how the energy market will react if the amount of power from two natural power plants is added. The emission effects of gas power will depend on the effects on production and consumption in the Nordic and European energy and power markets. Production and consumption in the different countries are linked by transmission connections for electricity. An analysis of what will happen in the power market with subsidies from two gas power plants in Norway requires insight into complex contexts in a market where very many factors are involved. It was therefore natural for the energy authorities of the Ministry of Oil and Energy to carry out these analyses in connection with the case of conversion. As part of the evaluation of the emission impacts of gas power plants, studies have been carried out at different research institutions. Different estimates were made for the treatment of the energy concession in 1996-97. In connection with the conversion case, it was among other things. carried out calculations of the Frischsenter at the University of Oslo and the Statistical Central Bureau. In addition, several calculation options have been implemented within the different projects. As regards the question of a new independent investigation, I would like to point out that these institutions are leading in energy market analysis. No guidance was provided by the Ministry of Oil and Energy on the design of the calculations except for the construction of two gas power plants in Norway. Therefore, one has not provided any guidance on assumptions used by the researchers in the calculations. With regard to the choice of the calculation period, I believe that one cannot help but assume that the countries that are included in the analysis and have signed the Kyoto agreement actually intend to meet their commitments in the 2008-2012 period. This means that one after that date must assume that the total emissions will be regulated by the Kyoto Agreement. Emissions increases in Norway must be subject to the overall Norwegian climate policy and our obligations under the Kyoto Agreement. Of course, I would like to stress that no model used by researchers can be exact and describe reality entirely. This is a property that concerns all models, whether they will help us say something about future economic development, the impact of pollution today on the climate, or in this case about adaptations in the power market. Nevertheless, there is a broad consensus that such models are the best tool for analysing the future. The models used here have been developed over several years, based on long-term research work in the various institutions. I do not doubt the competence of the various research institutions. With the calculations carried out in the past and those currently carried out by the Statistical Central Bureau and the Centre, there is a considerable pool of resources to gather a wide range of data for the assessment of the case. As they are now available, all the calculations give the result that gas power in Norway will result in a total reduction of CO2 emissions in the period before the Kyoto agreement sets a ceiling on emissions. I see it as a good professional basis in the matter, and I cannot see that new investigations can bring forward further elements that have not already been taken care of in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1547	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1550	The Minister for the Environment explained the impact that the Kyoto Agreement will have on emissions and that the Norwegian future gas power stations will be subject to this agreement. When one did not arrive in the negotiations in The Hague, everyone was disappointed. But what one has seen in the media lately has given hope that Norway has put on a leadership jersey in order to get the negotiations back on track. The question in relation to the emission of CO2 in the case of gas is initially also a question of whether the gas is addressed. Then the next time is a question about where the gas is being incinerated. Therefore, Stortinget has also said that one in Norway should not have specific requirements in relation to what is otherwise applicable in the EEA area. My question to the Minister for the Environment is about one in the light of what you have seen in the media lately, can say something more about progress in relation to the negotiations that I understand are going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1557	I think it is a timely question to address the international climate negotiations in the context of discussing the gas power plants in Norway, and I can confirm that there is considerable activity between different parties to the climate convention in these days as regards the possibility of moving forward, so that one can do the job that was not possible in The Hague and that we are obliged to do. I can also confirm that from the Norwegian side we are doing what we can to help us get an agreement. Right now it is not possible to say anything more concrete than that. I think it is much better to use the forces in the future for the international work of a climate agreement, and also for the work of national climate action, which has been discussed several times in the Stortinget and on which the Government will submit proposals for spring, and to continue the work on research in CO2-free gas power technology, rather than asking for new investigations related to the gas power plants, which are a matter dealt with in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1567	At the same time, the professional assessments on which the Government leaves its decision on gas power indicate that there is considerable uncertainty as to whether the conclusions that are drawn are correct or not. This must mean that the Government’s decision-making base is also based on a high degree of uncertainty. What separates the center parties and the SV from the government and the right parties is that we want a greater degree of security before we emit as much CO2 as this is about. But we've been through this round before, and there's been a lot of sense in this room, among other things. on the role of the SFT. I will therefore only limit myself to challenging the Council of State to answer clearly and clearly the following questions: What freedom has the SFT had to make professional assessments in relation to the emission permit related to the gas power plants, not least in the case of Industrialkraft Mid-Norway in Forest? Has the SFT had a professional freedom? To what extent has the Government allowed them to have it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1574	I can confirm that the Minister of the Environment's conclusion in the case of the conversion is a robust conclusion based on a significant and heavy professional basis, as has been explained several times in this Chamber. With regard to the role of State pollution control in gas-electricity matters, it is based on guidelines provided by the Ministry of the Environment. The Ministry of the Environment has a responsibility to manage State pollution control, as its underlying body, so that they can do the best possible job in their management activities as the professional body they are. This is done in different ways, including: the annual allocation notes. In this case, the Ministry of the Environment has provided guidance in the light of the decision of the Storting. We are based on the clear decision to raise the issue that has been discussed here several times. Of course, we are also based on a responsibility to manage the pollution law, and we are based on the fact that the State pollution authorities themselves have asked for guidelines on how CO2 emissions should be managed under the pollution law. I would also like to point out that the Ministry of Justice's legal department, which has been involved in the gas-power issue on a number of occasions, in its letter of March this year opens up such guidelines to the State pollution control department. Otherwise, state pollution regulators have not received any specific guidelines for their work on greenhouse gases. They have a responsibility for monitoring and professional responsibility on the occasion of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1587	It is, in fact, a rather eye-catching response that the Minister for the Environment now gave to the previous line, for she confirmed that State pollution control not only has the pollution law to deal with and manage, but also a conclusion that a majority of people have given in relation to whether or not to build gas power plants, which should be taken into account in the assessments they actually make. Thus, they have an instruction that, although the State pollution control authorities considered it contrary to the pollution law to grant emission permits to new gas plants in Norway, they could not have said so, because the majority of them have adopted something else. So the majority of people have behaved so that they do not take the political burden by changing the law, but provide additional instructions for implementing their views, which are also not professionally justified. The tragic thing about these gas power issues is that the bulk of the population knows they have a majority. The working party, the Right Party and the Advance Party have decided to open up an emission permit for gas power plants. It is the general principle of everything that the ministries do when looking at research reports to justify a decline in emissions and when instructing the State's pollution control authorities as to what kind of conclusion they are likely to reach and in their further consideration. It is a handling that will be very bad in retrospect. The Minister for the Environment has come up in a situation where she has inherited the decision and the conclusion that it is. But does the Minister for the Environment actually think that we have an active, credible and genuine climate policy in Norway when the bulk of the population thunders through pollution decisions first, and then everyone else is going to legitimize it with environmental arguments afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1596	It must be clear that it is the pollution law that is the starting point for the practical approach chosen in this case, namely to provide SFT with guidelines on the basis of this. When, in my work as Minister of Environmental Protection on behalf of the Ministry of the Environment, I provide SFT with guidelines for their professional practice in this field, it is based on the pollution law. It has been a practical way, of course, of following a very clear decision to collapse within the framework of the pollution law, but there has also been a desire for guidelines on how CO2 emissions are to be managed under the pollution law. On this basis, of course, the State pollution authorities have a professional responsibility for their assessments. Nor have State pollution regulators been given any specific guidance on their work on greenhouse gases, either in terms of monitoring and assessing environmental problems, or in their advisory and information role towards public opinion. They shall deal with this on the professional grounds on which they are set to do so. But there has been a practical way of following up a clear decision on size, of course within the framework of the pollution law.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1603	The cord shift is over. The speakers who are given the floor below shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1608	Kåre Willoch has called the handling the state council has had in relation to the SFT in this area, for a new state custom. SFT has in practice delivered a result that has been ordered! It undermines the role of the SFT, it undermines the credibility of the SFT, and it must be sad for an Environmental Council to have to produce a policy that thus weakens the confidence of such an important actor as the State pollution control. When I take the floor again, it is because the Council of State in a way elaborates the explanation and justification for this new statehood in its contribution here today. What has to be read by what was said here is that this type of intervention can also apply in relation to other discharges from other agencies, because once this barrier has been broken, it can impose obligations in many other areas. What I think is worrying, and the Left and Center parties are going to come back to this issue. It could be natural to have the Council of State explain why it is not a better procedure to allow the SFT to operate on its own keel on a professional basis, then to take any review and conversion at an appeal body in the Ministry of the Environment. And if she's prepared to answer that, I have an additional question related to what's the direct issue today, that's an increased understanding of the relationship between what we have of emissions in Norway and what's happening in Europe. I believe this is of interest far beyond the gas power plant debate, because we have now received further liberalisation of the power market in Europe in the autumn, thereby increasing the direct interaction between what we do in Norway and what is happening elsewhere in Europe. It must have been very important to have a wide-ranging investigation of which as part of the decision-making basis? As pointed out by various actors, what happens as a result of one or two gas power stations is quite different from what happens as a result of five or six, and the results may be different in the short and long term. I cannot understand that increased insight in this area is a disadvantage, nor can I understand that it is going to be opposed to Norway being a driver to relaunch the international negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1621	I fully agree with Kvassheim when he says that the Ministry of the Environment should do so in such a way that they allowed the SFT to assess the emissions permit also with the possibility that they could refuse, and then be politically tested by the Ministry of the Environment. It would have been a neat, clear and neat way that didn't create any uncertainty as to what kind of role SFT should actually play. If not, you got the man up to have the political courage to, but also take the political Christmas it would be, to change the pollution law, so that the assessments SFT would make had a different starting point. What is sad in this case is simply that the bulk of the population has first taken a decision, and then it has been looked at how to manage it, despite the fact that there are higher ambitions in environmental policy than the chance to build gas power plants that, overall, can lead to increased CO2 emissions, not only in Norway but also in Europe. After all, it is not the Ministry that has underlined the uncertainty expressed in the professional reports on which it has been based, on the contrary. It is the press that has stressed through what the researchers have said. And it has been underlined by the researchers who have been invited by the opposition on the Storting to review the assumptions underlying the research reports. It is thus the uncertainty as to whether emissions in Europe would be reduced by building gas power plants in Norway or not has come to the table, and this will be the problem further in the future. Therefore, it would have been extremely important to have put a broad research environment on the matter, and also to clarify the assumptions underlying which conclusions were thought to be drawn with great uncertainty. That's not enough of that. It is the bulk of the management of the gas-power case that creates a significant step backwards in the environmental battle. And clearly and embarrassingly!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1630	I felt the urge for some comments directly related to the administrative and constitutional here. What I think is perhaps the most interesting, is the deafening silence of the parties that are usually concerned with constitutional and administrative issues; not at least one party that always tends to be the guardian of the Storting in this context, but there is a deafening silence in this particular question. That's what I think is interesting, and I think it's interesting that there's someone here who needs to become a guardian on this issue, and who'll be categorically demanding debates on this issue later on. What I think is alarming in the Minister for the Environment's answer this time in relation to the budget debate, where we also had a discussion about this, is that she goes further, and that she is quite clear about the following: 1st@item: inlistbox SFT had, as far as we can understand her answer, no freedom in its handling of this matter. They could do nothing but what the Stortinget had said, and what they had been instructed by the ministry.2. The SFT had no choice. There was no choice in relation to a free, professional assessment of this question.3. The SFT has been given clear guidance – that is the expression used – for the technical justification and the professional assessment to be carried out by the SFT. It's eye-catching, and there should be more parties in this room. This has precedent effects in relation to other supervision and underlying directorates, and I believe that this room should take a thorough and genuine debate on principle. I understand that it may be difficult to take the political burden it might be to have to try out a different type of emission permit than the one that was expected to come from the SFT. That it will be a political burden, I understand, and I realize that you're hesitating for it. But what I think is worse is that instead of taking the political burden, you choose to break administrative principles with precedents in relation to other supervision and directorates. I think that's a lot worse. Rather, one should dare to take the political burden of maintaining the principles that are so important to this administration. We're not going to override the professional assessments of underlying directorates, and we're going to pursue that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1652	Strong words are used, both "pursue" and "perceptive". But it must be stressed: it would have been alarming if a Council of State did not follow what the majority said in the debate that was taking place in this Chamber on 9 March of the current year, in which they adopted the following guidelines for dealing with this matter: ‘Until a emissions trading system is regulated and put into force, no more stringent greenhouse gas emission requirements are imposed than those currently common to gas power producers in other EEA countries.’; That's what the matter is. It was only to be lacking that a Council of State should ignore the majority decision of 9 March. And then you go in the constitutive and the one with the other. We can come back to that, but this Document No. The 8-proposal that we are dealing with now has not even been transmitted to the Council of State. The majority have done the same. Why did we do that? Because we dealt with the same case in June this year, exactly the same case. There is only one word that is different! And then you spin on a new debate over and over again. We have to put our foot down and say that now we have to respect the majority in this Chamber on how to deal with and deal with these matters. As regards allowances, the Council of State stated in its statement after the Hague crash that this is a matter with which she will soon return to the Stortinget. Then we will discuss it in full, and then we will also discuss these persecutions and the constitutional there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1666	I understand very well Tore Nordtun's need to end this debate, because based on the answers that the Council of State has given today, this matter actually becomes relatively embarrassing to the Government. What Tore Nordtun felt was alarming at this debate was that the minority expected the Council of State not to follow the decision of the Storting. Of course, we expect the Council of State to do that. It is the duty of the Council of State. On the other hand, it is remarkable that the representative Nordtun does not see the difference between the task of the Council of State and the task of the SFT as a free, independent professional institution. What has been established by the debate today, and what the Council of State itself has said, it has sought answers from the centre parties and the SV for a long time. Finally, we've got it. We have been clearly served by the Council of State today that the SFT was actively deprived of its freedom to make professional judgements. The Council of State said in its own words that the Ministry developed guidelines on the professional assessments that the SFT should undertake. It's a long way to go in line with what Kåre Willoch called a new state custom. We need to take note of similar issues later that the Government is willing to give sub-directors and professional bodies direct instructions on how to exercise their professional judgements in important areas in the future. This matter creates precedent, and therefore – to the representative Tore Nordtun – it should not be surprising that there is someone in this room who is responding. That should have been done to the greatest extent by the Workers' Party. They've had the tradition of doing that in these kinds of things.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1677	It is good that the representative Nordtun goes up and takes the responsibility on behalf of the majority of people who actually belong to them in this case, including the Workers' Group. Because it is absolutely right that if the Minister for the Environment had done something other than loyally to follow the conclusion that the majority of the population has drawn and imposed on her, the Minister would not have had a special future. Then she would have been thrown by her own, probably. But it doesn't make the matter any better in its real content. It shows with exactly the same clarity that for the bulk of the population there is one thing that applies, and that is to open up the construction of gas power plants, even if it might be contrary to the pollution law. They present a final conclusion without State pollution control being able to do anything other than provide the same framework conditions for gas power plants in Norway as are common in other EEA countries. This is the current level of ambition for Norwegian environmental policy. Tore Nordtun clearly says that. It is nice to get things in clear text, but for the sake of the matter it is awfully sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1682	What is to be said on my part is to a large extent said, but let me just repeat that the SFT is in no way deprived of its professional responsibility in climate issues. What the Ministry has done here, based on a practical and reasonable argument, is to provide guidelines on how the pollution law is to be applied, how the judgement of the pollution law is to be understood in relation to CO2 emissions. There is absolutely no new state custom. In fact, it is the responsibility of the Ministry to clarify general questions of interpretation to underlying agencies. In this case, some guidelines have been given on the basis of the pollution law, and in the light of the clear decisions taken in the Stortinget. It is on this basis that the SFT has its clear professional responsibility in climate issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1687	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 1378]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1700	Then we're ready to start voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1707	During the debate, 22 proposals were put forward. It's the proposals No 1-5, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Left Party, the proposals No. 6 and 7, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 8, by John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, the proposals No. 9-11 and 15-18, by John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 12 and 19-21, by Annelise Höegh, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 13, 14 and 22, from Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party There is a vote first on framework-independent minority proposals, and we start with proposal No. 14, from the Socialist Left Party, which reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to take the initiative to increase its share of the cost of purchase of equipment by hospitals to 80 pst. of the total costs.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1740	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the same proportion of patients at the Attractive Centre in Rauland, Beitostølen health sports centre, Hernes Institute and Valnesfjord health sports centre in the same way as for the other training institutions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1754	The President returns to proposal No. 20, from the Right, at a later date. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9–11 and 15–18, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 9 reads:‘The Government asks the Government to take the initiative in setting up a further 1 000 auxiliary care posts in the care of the elderly in addition to the adopted escalation plan.’ 10 reads:‘The Government asks that the distribution of expenditure on investment in medical technical equipment in hospitals be 90 pst. on the State and 10 pst. in the hands of the county.’ 11 reads:‘The Government asks for the acquisition of two additional cancer-treatment jet engines in 2001.’ 15 reads:‘The decision asks the Government to postpone the introduction of the fixed medical device to the possibility of adequate medical coverage in all municipalities.’ 16 reads:‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the sickness pay scheme with the introduction of 2 qualifying days and 80 pst. sickness pay. There is a total lack of public confidence in savings. 17 reads:‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the law on social security which result in married pensioners getting their own full and legal pension paid without a curtailment based on marital status.’ 18 reads:‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals for amendments to the law on popular security, which lead to the transition aid to single dependants being as it was before 1999.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1797	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the right-hand suggestion is as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals to amend the sickness pay scheme in order to introduce a qualifying day and to provide 50 pst. pay the next two days of absence. Then give 90 pst. wages and salaries. Absences under the disease of the child are not increased.’ Is it the case that the Progress Party should subsidize this proposal? - It's not.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1813	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Progress Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a permanent position for nurses in the New Ålesund.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1827	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government requests the removal of the ‘encrypted’ for hospital input-based funding.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to set the reimbursement rate in the hospital input-driven financing scheme at 60 pst. The reimbursement shall go directly to the individual hospitals.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1847	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-5, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Stortingen in the context of the Revised National Budget for 2001 with an assessment of providing a higher start-up grant to nursing homes with associated staff, in line with the health home grant, so that they can provide services for the care and care of lucky days.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to make the necessary changes to the Law of Citizens’ Rights in order to end interpreting hours for deaf, deaf and deaf blind, and to return to the United Kingdom with financial changes in the context of the Revised National Budget for 2001.’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assume that the funds for cancer research under the auspices of the Cancer Plan will go to clinical research.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government of the Revised National Budget in 2001 asks the Government to submit proposals to extend the Cancer Plan so that the radiation therapy capacity of the Radium Hospital/Health Region of the South and Health Region of the West meets the increased need for the end of the Cancer Plan in 2003.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to assume that the cancer plan’s 100-million-dollar allocation target. SEK for cancer research by 2003 shall be continued as an annual allocation for the following years.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e1883	It shall then be contested by the minority proposals to the Framework Area 15. There are alternative proposals from the Right, No. 12, and from the Socialist Left Party, No. 13th@item: inlistbox Proposal No. 13, from the Socialist Left Party, says:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e5114	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 12 from the right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e8345	A vote shall now be taken on the proposal for a Framework Area 15 decision with the underlying chapters, items and roman numerals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e11574	The President has understood that the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e11630	We've come to the 16th framework. Here is the alternative proposal from the Right, No. 19, and from the Socialist Left Party, no. 22nd@item: inlistbox Proposal No. 22, from the Socialist Left Party, says:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e13049	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 19 from the right:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e14550	I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e14557	I forgot to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e14564	The President will take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e14576	We are now going to vote on the proposal for a decision on the 16th framework directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e16020	Here the President has understood it so that the Workers' Party will vote against it. - It's confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e16049	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by John I. Alvheim on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Olav Gunnar Ballo on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to include the CatoCenter in the public reimbursement schemes applicable to similar special health institutions with government grants.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e16070	There will then be no alternative between the setting and proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal of the Progress Party and the Right reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure the continued operation of the CatoCenter and asks the Government to submit proposals to the Revised National Budget 2001 for the approval of the Centre either as a training institution or as a special health institution.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e17070	Two corrections shall be made to the draft decision of the opinion. It's about cap. 2650, item 71, where the amount is to be 65 million. NOK 65 000 and not NOK 65 000. These three zeroes have also gone away in the hood. 2660, item 74, so the amount there is going to be 72 million. NOK 72 000 and not NOK 72 000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e17875	The regulatory time of the morning meeting is now at hand. The President will propose that this meeting continue until the issues of Storting are resolved and voted on. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e17895	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to extend the deadline for the closure of the National Aid Fund for Krigens Ofre’s Curator Offices in Fredrikstad, Tønsberg, Arendal, Stavanger, Bergen, Trondheim, Bodø and Tromsø from 31 December 2001 until 31 December 2005 at the latest.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e17929	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odel Stingen meeting on 1 December 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out an evaluation of the experience with outreach genetic guidance and to provide the Storting experience after the law has been practised for a five-year period.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e18113	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 7 December 2000: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with an adequate settlement of the principle and practical consequences of the rules contained in the bill for the rights of all persons and for the relationship between different nutritionists in the area in question.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e18127	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 7 December 2000: "Size tells Government not to open for postponing non-local species"
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e18141	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 7 December 2000: ‘The decision asks the Government to clear up and launch a research project to identify ecological and environmental impacts of sea grazing.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e18155	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Jon Lilletun on behalf of the Christian People's Party submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 7 December 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the necessary changes to the Seawater Fishing Act based on the continuation of the principle of weekend fisheries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e18172	During the debate, Hilde Frafjord Johnson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the initiative of a targeted study on Norwegian gas power plants to reduce European CO2 emissions during the lifetime period of gas power stations, for a minimum of 20 years.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e18187	I should have voted in favour of the proposal and against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e18194	There shall then be 72 representatives who voted in favour and 34 representatives who voted in favour of the proposal. Consequently, the suspension has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-14.ana.ud784e18203	There is no record. Before this meeting is cancelled, the President will recall that there is still a meeting at Odelstinget today, and the meeting will be held at noon. 6:00 p.m.
