ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e65	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there should be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e74	By opening an anonymous witness, a threshold in the Norwegian legal system passes. Unfortunately, it is the case that criminals are perpetrating violence or threatening to engage in violence against actors in the judicial system to a greater extent than in the past. The problem is increasing, so it is necessary to take this step. If a witness or other actors in a criminal case are being threatened by the defendant or persons... I'm sorry, President, I have problems with the vote. I ask to come back later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e83	At the request of the President-in-Office of the Council, the President proposes that the President should come back later with his statement and that Mr Simonsen should be the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e86	Two years ago, the Progress Party presented an action plan to improve the security of police officers. An important element of this action plan was the proposal to ask the Government to draw up a proposal that would allow police officers to testify anonymously in cases where it was necessary because of threats or in order to ensure the possibility of further missions. I am pleased that the Government has now followed up the proposals of the Progress Party, and that access to anonymous witnessing is also valid for witnesses other than police officers. The party of progress has previously been skeptical of anonymous witnessing because to some extent it weakens the defendant’s ability to defend himself and reduces the defendant’s legal certainty. In theory, therefore, it increases the risk of murder. In recent years, however, the criminal environment has become much harder than before. There have been threats to witnesses, who have been frightened to refrain from testifying in court, and this may have led to unjust acquittals. If it is to be possible for criminals to threaten witnesses in a way that makes it impossible to get a criminal conviction, it will be a threat to our entire legal system. Our entire state of law will be in danger. There is a danger that far exceeds the risk of a somewhat reduced level of legal certainty posed by anonymous witnessing. There is no further need to say about this issue. Once the rapporteur has cleared his neck and is back, he will certainly give a more comprehensive explanation for the side of the problem. It is positive that the Judicial Committee unanimously wishes to give police officers greater protection when they testify in court. At the same time, it is frustrating and deeply regrettable that only the Progress Party wants to give police officers greater protection from threats and violence to which they are subjected in the service. I read Bergen's magazine yesterday, and at the latest this weekend there was an example where a police officer was shelled in the head during an arrest, and also an example where an arresting officer tried to fire a police officer. Nor has it been long since a police officer felt so threatened that he found it necessary to use firearms, and it is not long since there was a regular street fight in front of the Castle in Oslo, where more police officers were injured. The Norwegian police are voluntarily subjected to heavy personal burdens. Norwegian police officers have chosen a profession where they are exposed to a significant risk of both being killed and being seriously injured. The Norwegian youth cream that educates for the police profession does so because they want to protect us others. They fight for good against evil. They deserve the full support of an overall political environment. Unfortunately, they don't get it. The majority of the Judicial Committee is committed to throwing shines. The representatives of all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, write in a fine way about the need for severe criminal responses against those who are perpetrating violence against police officers but are not willing to do more than linguistic exercises to get it done. They are not willing to act. The proposal of the Progress Party for increased minimum penalties for various levels of sabotage, threats or violence against police officers is rejected by the Right, the Labour Party and the other parties in the Judicial Committee. Policy results are achieved only through concrete actions and decisions, not through chatter. Unfortunately, there is something the bulk of the population has not understood. The majority of the Judicial Committee correctly states that they consider that the maximum penalties in criminal penalties for violence are high enough, and also complain that some minimum penalties have made the courts feel compelled to impose stricter penalties than they have found reasonable. In fact, the intention of minimum penalties is precisely to force the courts to impose stricter penalties than they normally do today. If the minimum penalties are set higher than the current average criminal sentence, courts are forced to judge more stringently. It's the only effective solution. Police officers must receive special protection in the penal code, because they have a job where they put themselves at risk for their own lives and their own health through work. The Progress Party therefore proposes that police officers should be punishable by life imprisonment instead of the 21 - year maximum sentence. We also propose to double today's maximum penalty for violence against police officers, and to impose a minimum penalty of four years if violence can be described as gross. In addition, we propose a fourfold increase in today's maximum penalty to prevent police officers from doing their work. It will give the courts a clear signal to condemn four times as severe criminal acts as today. It will help teach young people respect for the police. I note that the majority of the Stortings, including the Right, do not want to give the police this hand bill that our police force so badly needs. I refer to the proposals from the Progress Party that have been referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e105	The representative Jan Simonsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e108	The big business is today dealing with a very important matter. The matter is often referred to as the question of allowing anonymous witnesses. We are talking about opening up limited use of anonymous witnesses in Norwegian criminal proceedings and being able to give the police the opportunity to ensure full anonymity to informants. With the events of the last days and weeks, where human life has been taken so abruptly and brutally, we have been reminded of the fact that human life is irreplaceable, and powerlessness is felt overwhelmingly both for the survivors and for others involved in different ways. The task and duty of society will then be, among other things. to identify a causal link, in order to be able to punish and/or treat the perpetrator, and to be better able to prevent such a reoccurrence. We are therefore dependent on getting as many observations and testimonies as possible to learn the truth about what happened. It has been a fundamental point of view and principle in Norwegian criminal law that the accused should know who is accusing you of anything. It gives the defendant the opportunity to defend himself against claims. In this proposal there is an opening for the use of anonymous witnesses in Norwegian criminal cases, and the proposal basically confirms the actual development that we all record in our society. It is a natural consequence of the increasing violence, revenge and threat practices that we see only increase over time, that we must also be prepared to protect those who will stand up to say what they know. The criminality picture in Norway is increasingly internationalised, more organised and more brutal than in the past. This we must take over, and that is why the Christian People's Party supports the changes in the law. A witness who is now open may in some cases be at risk of being subjected to serious crimes that violate life, health and freedom for themselves or their loved ones. Persons working ‘under cover’ should also be able to obtain anonymity if there is a risk that it will be difficult to work ‘under cover’ again in another criminal case. Anonymous witnesses shall only be used where strictly necessary and there are no significant concerns in the interests of the defence of the intended person. The identity of witnesses shall be disclosed to the judge, the actor and the defender, but the defender shall be able to oppose this, in the light of how this will come about in relation to the client. The police officer in Oslo has described a situation in which police officers, witnesses and victims are increasingly being threatened. I refer to Ot.prp. No 40, page 14. The methodology set out the situation in NOU 1997:15, page 26, is that it has proved almost impossible for the police to have victims and report cases when they have been exposed to professional criminals. Furthermore, it is stated that: ‘Non-rapidly, there are also serious threats to police and their families’ employees. These threats must be taken very seriously and take action by the police to protect the officials and their families concerned.» Judges, too, have been threatened. Kripos has the following considerations in its 1999 threat assessment report: Norway is facing a number of serious criminal threats. Some are latent, others more immediate. Latent crime threats include, for example: the possibility that criminal groups from abroad establish activities in Norway. Furthermore, as organised crime unfolds, there is an ever-increasing evidence of threats or violence to actors in criminal matters. This affects police officers and their families as well as judges, actors, witnesses and insults in criminal matters. Violence and threats are primarily very serious and unpleasant to those directly affected, but the fact that the phenomenon is showing an increasing trend poses a real threat to one of the pillars of society, namely legal certainty. The Christian People's Party therefore considers it necessary to take new measures to combat different types of crime. The Christian People's Party, together with the rest of the Committee, has expanded the rule to include the production, sale, storage and introduction of a very significant amount of alcohol among the offences where anonymous witnesses can be used. The proposal proposed by the Ministry continues to safeguard the legal certainty of the accused. Anonymous witnesses shall only be used where strictly necessary and there are no significant concerns in the interests of the defence of the intended person. The identity of the witness shall be disclosed to the judge, the actor and the defender. The Christian People's Party agrees that there should be an access for the defender to oppose having the witness's identity known. It is not difficult to imagine that there may be a difficult trust between the defender and the client if she knows something she cannot say to her client. Both the degree and the nature of anonymous witnessing may vary — from complete anonymity to partial anonymity. The use of anonymous witnesses should also be permitted during the investigation, both in police and judicial proceedings. It is important to give the police the opportunity to protect their sources, so that the identity of the witness is kept secret. The Christian People's Party underlines that there are in particular two cases where anonymous witnesses may be relevant: 1. where a casual person has witnessed a crime and because of the nature of the crime or the features of the offender's person fears revenge if he testifies2. where a police officer has acted as a spy or has infiltrated a criminal environment under deck name The Christian People's Party refers to the fact that the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights relating to a fair trial do not preclude the authorisation of anonymous witnesses. The Christian People's Party will stress that the Ministry has assessed the proposal against this Convention and has not found that the proposal is contrary to human rights. The Christian People's Party stresses that the proposition also contains proposals for other forms of witness protection. These include: on the protection of witness domicile and place of work, the blocking of the address in the Folkeregister and practical forms of protection, such as: that the witness receives a contact person in the police or receives an attack alert. In view of the increasing trend in crime, there has also been a need for criminal penalties that provide greater protection for the actors in criminal proceedings. For this reason, the Ministry has proposed a new penalty order for the ‘counterfeiting of the judiciary’. This rule covers all those who work in the police, the prosecution, the court, the criminal justice system, or who have been defenders, aid lawyers or procedural agents. The closest actors are also covered by the provision. The Christian People's Party believes this is an important provision that clearly signals the seriousness of actions where the aim is to prevent the work of the judiciary. The Christian People's Party believes that criminal acts against public officials deserve strict punishment. Like the ministry, the Christian People's Party is skeptical about the excessive use of minimum penalties. The maximum penalty for such acts is high enough, but we believe that there should be a specific rule with a reinforced criminal framework for cases where police are being shot at. These are acts which constitute a specifically qualified form of violence and should therefore be subject to separate regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e160	Today, the size takes an important step to ensure legal certainty. No society can function or enforce law or justice if people don't dare to testify about serious crimes in a courtroom. I expect the case rapporteur to come into all the technical aspects of the law, so I want to spend my time giving some examples of situations that we in the Justice Committee seem to have been unsustainable and that we want to change. I want to start by mentioning the child blames that were up to judgment last autumn and partly also the year before. In many cases, we experienced that children down at the age of 14-15 who had been victims were terrified to testify to gross physical assaults and rans. In Bærum it was said that it was difficult to bring the child trial before the court because as many as half of the victims did not dare to testify. I also talked to a mother who said that they were recommended by both police and defense lawyers not to testify, that it could actually be dangerous for children's safety to testify. In such circumstances, it is important that the judge feels that he can, with great certainty and with the law, close the courtroom by hand and send the defendant out at the hall while the witness is being interrogated, so that important evidence can be obtained. In Oslo this happened only in one case, and it was the very youngest victim, who was 14 years old when he was assaulted and abused. The judge then closed the courtroom and sent out the defendant and their summonsmen. I spoke to the father of this victim. He describes how his little boy would stand inside the courtroom and look at five defendants, five defense lawyers in black robes and a hurray on the courtroom who all sat with menacing glances and with notice that this should be returned for you afterwards. Putting up in such a situation and telling about serious abuse, the jam is not easy. This smallest boy succeeded because the courtroom was closed and because the judge reacted as all judges in the country should respond. But the second youngest witness did not get this protection, and he fainted in the courtroom and was prevented from giving his explanation. Since the Justice Committee is making this amendment as we do today, the judges cannot hereafter say that they do not have a legal basis for protecting victims by sending out defendants at the maximum required, and that is particularly required where the victims are children. Another important issue that we have as an example, and on which the Justice Committee was involved when we discussed the position of the Methodology Committee, is the well-known "Scry" case, where policemen who were dependent on working under cover, who depended on the fact that no one knew their identity, were refused to present their diploma anonymously or without their identity becoming known. These jobs worked in an international environment, and it would be impossible for them to conduct their research internationally if their identity became known. The Court found that there was no basis for keeping the identity of these policemen unknown, and said they needed clarification from the legislator. We now hope that such clarification will help us to give. Of course, policemen who work ‘under cover’ and who depend on it for the pursuit of their profession should be able to testify without having to stand up with full identity. We've also had other similar cases in Norway, where important people from the Spanish community at the Oslo Police Chamber know that they should be forced to witness in full public in the courtroom, sit all the organized criminal environment in the courtroom and watch and see who they are, and they're useless to do their job in the police force in Oslo. We don't have so many good people to take off in Norway that we can throw them away every time they testify in a courtroom. This kind of situation we will also now secure ourselves against should arise. Another practical problem for many policemen has been that it is so easy for the criminal communities to get their addresses, among other things. by going through the People's Register. We say clearly that there should be access to the People's Register with a secret address, there should be access to the possibility that some people can also keep their names hidden and that no one can know what they are called and where they live. We have been waiting for this clarification, and we are asking for feedback as early as the fall that the clarification has been made, and that the police – and others who need it – can be sure that the People's Register has a practice that does not give them unnecessary to violent people. This has also been a major problem for women who have fled from particularly violent husbands, and where husbands have been able to easily trace them, among other things. by identifying their personal identification number. When the Justice Committee was in Italy, the anti-mafia investigators met there and asked if it was a simple matter to change the person number when you changed the identity in Italy, they saw the skyscraper on us. Is it possible to change the identity without changing the person number? That was the question they asked back, and that was a good question. When the Justice Committee today says that the possibility of getting a completely new person number must be present, we are also involved in remedying the situation for example. young women who have been subjected to attempted coercive procedures and who are recovered several times by their violent fathers because they use the personal number as an identifier. We are also familiar with the fact that policemen in Norway have had to watch 24 hours both for themselves and for their children. Children of policemen have been dependent on being escorted to and from kindergarten, almost with bodyguards, because these families have been exposed to threats from the organized criminal environment. Had the law we adopt today, adopted earlier, more families' lives could have been several times simpler, and they could have been saved for a considerable psychological and physical burden. There is also an increased tendency to use threats at different stages of a case that will be brought before a legal entity, both in the waiting room outside the courtroom, against witnesses before they have at all given an explanation and after they have fallen. This means that the Committee has seen a clear need to increase the penalties for the use of threats. Threats must be taken much more seriously. And at this point, we might have a little job to do in front of us, after today. We know that there is an increased tendency for shopkeepers to be exposed to threats. They're asked to close their eyes so organized criminal environments can carry goods right out of the store, or they'll know that if you report us, your personal security is at risk. Today, these people have to do their own thing, personally. The managers of these companies cannot sue them, it has to do with laws and regulations. And in this area, there is a need to look at the law to be able to react tougher to threats. In recent years, also in the case of killings, where the killings or acts of violence have been notified in advance in a local environment, but where the local loner has felt that he has not had enough means to respond, it also shows that it is not being reacted well enough and early enough to threats in a local environment, in a local environment, and that there may be a need to look at legal instruments to facilitate this. Finally, I would like to respond to the attack by the Progress Party that we are not doing anything here and now to increase the security of the police in terms of increasing the penalties for those who, among other things, are doing nothing. fires shots at the police. To that end, I would say that the Committee is doing something that is perhaps more important: we have a majority to oblige the Government to come back with a separate case that will take care of this just as soon as the Advocate General, who is working on these questions today, has finished his work. So also there we give a job that means that we might already be able to get a law change that gets a majority because it brings together broad support, and that ensures life and health for policemen. The sum of these situations I have explained and the decision we are about to take today increases significantly the safety of legal actors. I am very pleased that it has been possible to gather such broad political support for this despite a number of scandals both from various newspaper editorials and different defence lawyers' environments that we remove legal certainty. We don't. We make a serious premise that legal certainty should exist at all!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e190	By opening an anonymous witness, a threshold in the Norwegian legal system passes. Unfortunately, it is the case that criminals are perpetrating violence or threatening to engage in violence against actors in the judicial system to a greater extent than in the past. The problem is increasing; therefore, it is necessary to take this step. If a witness or other actors in a criminal case are threatened by the accused or persons in the criminal environment in question, this is a threat to the legal community. Witnesses have a special role in criminal proceedings, and the test of witnesses is often crucial to whether a guilty person is convicted or not. The community cannot accept that the judiciary may fail in the prosecution of a suspect because witnesses are afraid to testify freely and truthfully, as the Council of Europe's recommendation on threats to witnesses and the defendant's right to defence states. For the Workers' Party, it is essential that the defendant be given the right to know an anonymous witness's identity. However, we are aware that the defender can face a difficult situation in relation to the defendant, and that is why we say a right and not an obligation to know the identity of the witness. Actors and judges must also know who the witness is, and professionals and laymen must be equated on this point. The conditions under which an anonymous witness should be used in Norwegian criminal proceedings must be strict. There must be a real danger of a serious crime that violates the life, health or freedom of the witness or of any of its closest witnesses, before a witness is allowed to act anonymously. Anonymous witnessing shall also be permitted in cases where there is a risk of a witness becoming significantly more difficult to act as a spy or infiltrate into a criminal environment under cover name — ‘under cover agent’, as it is called — in subsequent criminal proceedings if the identity becomes known. This was also the representative of Krohn Devold. I would like to stress that anonymous witnessing is only to be used if strictly necessary and does not give rise to significant concerns for the defence of the sight. In January 1999, the magistrate Mary-Ann Hedlund found out from the Ministry of Justice about the question of the use of anonymous witnesses. Hedlund goes into his investigation so that at the investigation stage there should be a general access to keeping witnesses' identity hidden from the defendant. However, she does not recommend at this stage that witnesses should be able to explain themselves to the court under full anonymity. On the other hand, she is more open to various forms of partial anonymity. I will not go into the details of her investigation, except for an important conclusion she draws, namely that the use of explanations from anonymous witnesses in itself does not conflict with the requirements for fair trial set out in the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 6; and [[1]] The Ministry of Justice agrees with Hedlund's conclusion. The same is true of the government attorney as, among other things, states that the proposal for the use of anonymous witnesses appears to be ‘within the framework drawn up so far by the case-law of the EMK Supervisory Bodies’, the European Convention on Human Rights. I have previously referred to the Council of Europe's recommendation on threats to witnesses and the defendant's right to defend. The main purpose of the Recommendation is to coordinate and promote the initiatives of the Member States to protect threatened witnesses, while respecting the right of the accused to effective defence. I further refer to the proposition's reference to the recommendation, where it says: ‘Anonymity should only be allowed when the witness’s life or freedom is seriously threatened or if it is a police officer who has worked as a ‘undercover agent’ and his ability to work in the future is seriously threatened. It should be possible to assume that the diploma will have a significant impact on the disclosure of the case. A decision on anonymity should be dealt with by the court in order to allow the defence to meet the need for anonymity and to raise objections to the credibility of the witness, etc.’.» This latter has been taken into account in the present proposal, by the fact that an application for anonymous witnessing is to be dealt with by three experts in the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the In these cases, in the case of anonymous witnessing during the preparation of the case, to which it is also open in the proposal, the right of inquiry will have to take any decision. It is also stressed that an anonymous testimonial decision is made at the time of recognition and can be relied on. There shall also be an obligation to justify a declaration of anonymous service. In order to deal with the issue of anonymity for a witness, it is obvious that public defence has been appointed before that. This also applies if the question is relevant during the preparation of the case. On 23 November 1995 the EU Council of Ministers adopted a resolution on the protection of witnesses in the fight against international organised crime. The resolution argues that total or partial anonymity of threatened witnesses is a current instrument that countries are recommended to consider using in the prosecution of international organised crime. The general rule in European countries is that anonymous witnessing is not allowed. However, several countries have exceptional provisions allowing for total or partial anonymisation, including: England and the Netherlands. Per. the current date is not allowed for anonymous witnessing in any of the other Nordic countries. In addition to the threat assessment, when a step is taken in Norway to open up the possibility of anonymous witnessing, it is necessary that the list be high on which types of cases this may be allowed. These will include killing, gross bodily damage, body damage resulting in death, rape, kidnapping, ransack, brutal punishment, extortion, serious drug issues, money laundering, hijacking and the violation of the new penal code for the countering of the judiciary launched in this proposition. Commenting on this proposal, I will refer you to later in the article. All the above is contained in the proposals of the Ministry of Justice. In addition, a unanimous judicial committee proposes that the provision on the production, sale, storage and introduction of a very significant quantity of alcohol be included under the types of offences that could lead to anonymous witnessing. Based on the consultation round, where hearing bodies describe parts of this criminal environment as very hard, we find it right to include the serious alcohol crime. In the same context, we also ask the Government to consider raising the penalty framework in the alcohol law § 10-1 third paragraph from six to ten years. If this criminal framework is raised, it will be possible to apply different exceptional investigation methods in this type of case. So it's not just that we get it into the list of things where there might be anonymous witnessing, but it also has consequences for the way you can investigate. It is important to stress that a decision that a witness should be able to act anonymously does not have to be taken into consideration because the court considers that the defendant is guilty. In this respect, I would like to remind you that the European Court of Human Rights has accepted the use of anonymous witnesses in several cases. The proposition emphasises that the witness test to an anonymous witness cannot be the sole or main evidence of conviction. This should also be in line with the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights. However, I share the ministry's view that it is not right to include as an express condition in the law that the test should not be essential to the outcome of the case. It is not common in our procedural law that rules are laid down as to how much weight a witness can have. Other measures to reduce the burden of witnessing are also important in order to obtain the necessary information during criminal proceedings. This could be done, for example, by: not to indicate the place of residence/work, measures such that the accused cannot see the witness when it is declared in court, and it may also be that the defendant or others must leave the court when a witness declares themselves. I would like to point out in particular the cases where witnesses and/or the offended person are minors. Until now, after the opening in 1994 of access to the defendant to refuse to be present for insulting purposes when the latter explains itself, it appears that the provisions are being applied too rigorously in cases where the offended person is a minor. This is now seeking an overall change in justice by proposing amendments to the Criminal Procedures Act §245 and 284, where we now state: ‘In the event of an offended person or a witness of less than 18 years of age, the court may order that the defendant or others leave the court, even if the specific reasons justify the consideration of the offended person or the witness respectively.’ With this we want to establish that there is an important element in itself that an offended or a Witness is a minor, in this case defined by an age limit of 18 years. I would like to point out in particular that it is not only the defendant, but also others present who may be required to leave the courtroom, and it has to do with the atmosphere that may arise in a legal case involving minors. The police and the Riksadvokat have made representations regarding current changes to the Law of the People's Register. They believe that access to the protection of personal data needs to be extended. I fully agree with that. In this context, it is also necessary to provide for the possibility for a person to obtain new personal data. The other Nordic countries have or have proposed penalties to protect legal actors. This in itself, but above all the fact that the use of threats and violence against witnesses and other actors in criminal matters is an increasing problem, suggests that we in Norway also receive a penalty order for the same. The Ministry proposes that a user should use the term ‘counterfeiting the judiciary’ at the introductory part of the proposal, which in my opinion is well comprehensive. The fact that there are actors in the broadest sense in the context of a legal process that is protected and that the closest ones are also covered is very satisfactory. It is important to note that the new offender is about acts from which the judicial system is strongly alienated and that it is crucial for the criminality of whether the action could affect legal actors to commit or not to commit an act. The proposed penalties of five years, or 10 years on repetition, or if the action has been carried out in particularly aggravating circumstances and there is intentional, clearly indicate the seriousness of such actions and that they are unacceptable. The Judicial Committee has on several occasions pointed out the seriousness of child abuse cases and asked in the Budget. S. No 4 for 1999-2000 The Ministry of Justice assesses the need for changes in order to ensure a sufficiently strict criminal response. In our committee position in this case, we have taken note of the ministry's response that the courts are paying enough attention to the fact that it is violence against children, and that child abuse is strictly punished in relation to other crimes. What is important, however, is that child abuse is judged not only under Section 219 of the Penal Code, but in practice in combination with Sections 228 and 229 on physical insult and bodily harm. Child abuse is unacceptable and must be judged strictly. In the case of violence against public officials, all but the Advance Party opposes the imposition of their own minimum penalties. Moreover, the majority are not in favour of introducing new specific minimum penalties against violence in general. With regard to modern principles of criminality, the punishment measured must be based on a total assessment of both the criminal offence, the perpetrator’s character, the gravity of the offence and any other factors that may be relevant to the case in question. There is also agreement among the same majority that the maximum penalties in the criminal code on violence are high enough. In other words, the Riksadvokat has given clear signals. However, the Ministry of Justice has asked the Attorney General to consider whether a specific rule should be included in the penal code with a reinforced criminal framework for cases where police are being shot at. This is a particularly qualified form of violence, and it is important that this work is given priority, so that such a rule can be incorporated into the criminal law. Everything would suggest that this is a majority for that to happen. In addition, it should be mentioned that a single judicial authority supports the Ministry's proposal that individual members of the Government, the Stortinget and the Højesterätt should also be protected under Section 99 of the Criminal Code. Today there is only collective protection in relation to this paragraph. According to the Ministry, the proposed legislative changes can have both administrative and economic consequences. However, the importance of the proposed changes is such that both the legal, human and social benefits are far more important than these impacts. The legislative changes in this proposal are fundamental and of great importance. Therefore, it is natural that the proposed legislative proposal is reviewed and re-checked in total four to five years after its implementation. Where necessary, the downgrading must make any changes or adjustments if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e270	I will focus on what is the main focus and the difficult question of principle that is being addressed here today, namely whether the use of anonymous witnesses should be opened up in Norway. This is basically a very difficult question of legal certainty, because in a state of law it's not just about getting someone convicted, but about getting the right one. That means you have to have the opportunity for a defense to cross-examine and check your testimonies. This is a matter which has been dealt with following an investigation that has recommended that witnesses should not be anonymised, an investigation in which one had a short period of time, the consultation period has been short, and the Methodology Committee suggested that a separate sample be set up to assess these difficult questions. However, this case is still being discussed in the United Kingdom, although no other Nordic country has an opening for the anonymisation of witnesses and a few other European countries. It is very obvious that there is a serious threat to legal certainty that witnesses may be exposed to threats that change the testimony, which means that one does not dare to witness, etc. It's also a reality that this is a growing problem. What amazes me is that one opens up the anonymization of witnesses, but that there is no main focus in the matter of threats to witnesses. There are three categories of witnesses where you see it as topical and possible to have anonymous witnesses. It's so-called random witnesses, so those who happen to get past a situation and become witnesses to a serious and serious act. According to the police and according to a Swedish survey, this witness is rarely threatened — almost never. Those who are threatened are people who have knowledge of the environment, who are known for visibility from before, who may be in family with purpose, i.e. situations in which anonymisation is completely impossible, because the witness test itself will tell who the witness is. The other situation applies to witnesses in the criminal environment itself, who may be in a situation where they have considerable self-interest in blaming the person in charge of the case. The ministry also has problems with this and believes that it is not a particularly suitable environment to pick up anonymous witnesses. The third category is police officers – not only Spaniards, but also ordinary police officers. We know that these are people who do an important job on behalf of society, but who are increasingly exposed to threats, not only to themselves, but also to family members. In the SV we have found that it is unacceptable that officials are exposed to the kind of threats that they cannot do a job on behalf of society in the name of legal security. SV therefore suggests opening up the use of anonymisation of witnesses, but links this to police officers. In the other areas, we believe that the problem is different from that of the Committee and the Department. I think the anonymization of witnesses can lead to the opposite of what is thought. This could be done, for example, by: be such that several claim anonymity to testify. When the ministry and the committee say at the same time that an anonymous witness test cannot be decisive for a conviction in a case, one may find that the possibility of condemning a perpetrator is weakened if the anonymous testimony is widely disseminated. Norway is a small and transparent country. I am amazed that the ministry and the committee do not place much more emphasis on what to do to protect witnesses who are targeted, because that is where the main threat to witnesses lies – witnesses who are not in any way anonymized. That's where the serious threats in family matters lie. That is where the serious threats associated with people who are silent from criminal environments lie. And that's where Norway has very special challenges. The Committee and the Ministry are not in favour of an organised witness protection programme. They argue that it is a little topical in Norway to make these kinds of plans, because there are so few cases, and that is probably right. But we have a disadvantage in relation to many other countries with greater conditions, because what is possible, for example, is. changing the identity of people without being traced. How do you ensure the protection of witnesses in a small and transparent country, where it is very easy to find individuals, and where even Oslo is a small town? There should have been the main focus in this case. That's what could mean getting on with this. I would like to address the proposal that has been distributed in the places.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e293	Kristin Halvorsen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e297	Odelstingen today adopts several changes to the criminal law and the criminal law, etc. in order to protect the actors in criminal proceedings against threats and reprisals. The legislative changes will have a particular impact on organised crime and other serious crime. In practice, the use of anonymous witnesses in Norwegian criminal proceedings is open under more detailed conditions. Under current law, it has not been possible to present anonymous witnesses to the court. Until now, the police have had limited opportunities to promise an informant or a police witness anonymity. There is little doubt that the perpetrators are far more perpetrators of violence or threaten to engage in violence against the perpetrators in criminal proceedings. The aim is to prevent a crime from being reported, or to influence the representative of the courts, police, prosecution, defence or criminal justice in his work on criminal matters. It could also be to get revenge on someone who has participated in a criminal case. We cannot accept that witnesses and other actors in criminal matters are exposed to threats and reprisals. Nor can we accept that the ability of the legal society to detect and combat serious crime is weakened because witnesses do not dare to stand up with what they know. A fundamental feature of our criminal justice system is that offenders should be held accountable to society. If witnesses don't dare explain themselves, we get the very unfortunate situation that the more malicious and reckless a criminal is, the more difficult it becomes to get him convicted. When Odelstinget today says yes to the law changes, there is little doubt that they are consistent with people's sense of justice. Most people experience daily how the criminal environment also hardens in our country. It would then be perceived as naive if no witnesses and other actors in criminal matters were given protection that could defy the practice of violence or threats of violence. The centre party has been and is engaged in the legal certainty of the individual. However, we fully understand that the legislative proposals can have a negative legal certainty effect on those sitting on the ground. But this must be weighed against the far more serious effect that citizens do not dare to stand up to their testimonies. The weighing is not easy. But overall, we in the Central Party are convinced that the system of anonymous witnesses will serve the rule of law. An action paralysed state is the worst of all outcomes on these difficult issues. The legislative proposals are an important contribution to avoiding this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e316	Both the proposition from the department and the setting are kept in a sober tone, and that is all possible reason for weighing important dilemmas in the legal state and finding practical solutions. From the left's point of view, the setting, which is unanimous and to which we agree on all points, contains a number of important measures. Firstly, the measures that represent intensified criminal responses to anyone who threatens everyone involved in the judicial process, whether there are witnesses, people in the judiciary or police. Secondly, the possibility for people to be anonymous sources to the police in situations where they are not to be used as witnesses. And thirdly, the question that represents the classic liberal dilemma, namely, the rule of law in the face of a brutalized crime, and how the rule of law, which goes far beyond the judiciary, should act in relation to the judiciary in order to ensure a judicial process, to secure victims and also to guarantee the rights of defendants. It's this balance that's been made. And there's no reason to hide that it's a dilemma. After an overall assessment, when we come to the conclusion that the dilemma is finding a solution, as it has been done by the department and in the position of the committee, it is because of the devastation that one has in parts of the crime scene and the seriousness that police in particular encounters but that other Norwegian citizens also encounter. At the same time, there is reason to have the type of urgency in the setting, where the measures are implemented. They were made in relation to the purely procedural description of when to use them, but perhaps more importantly, they were made in by being very sober about what situations in our country this would be relevant. There is no doubt – as the representative Halvorsen had in mind – that we live in a country that is very transparent in many contexts, and that an anonymous witness is intended only in cases where anonymity is real and not just theoretical. So that's why I'm happy with this negligentness. But when, after an overall assessment in spite of the dilemmas and in spite of the fact that you can get into situations where the defenders, too, will not know the identity of the witness either – because that is the way it is put up to – there is no doubt that you have to be open to the fact that you have crossed a limit and that it is a dilemma. I also think it is very important that both the Ministry and the Committee make reference to what has gradually become a practice in some important new criminal policy contexts, namely that they want to evaluate this after a period of four to five years. That's the absolute thing to do. From my point of view, it is important for legislation to take place and for legislation to take the way it should. I'd like to dwell on what I also think the committee has spent a little bit of time, namely the different opportunities to protect witnesses. Here you can say that the country is transparent, so it is not so easy to see the practical significance of it. Yes, but Norway is not the only country that has this need in relation to countries around us. This was perhaps the field in which a protection programme could be developed together with other Nordic countries. This was one of the fields where maybe we have a Nordic community, could be more than happy words and cheerful party speeches, and where it's actually possible. We have a common labour market and have had it for a long time with other Nordic countries, especially with Sweden and partly with Denmark. It is clear that in such a context, it may be possible to establish a programme to protect witnesses in certain contexts. I am also pleased with the initiative in this case and in the committee position to look at the question of secret identity. The representative, Krohn Devold, mentioned this in his article on the practical aspects of the adjustment, but we are also aware of the question about the person number. We know that the Swedes have a three-pointed system, which is described in the setting. That's all possible reason why we have to look at it. It should be possible for people persecuted by persons who act violently against them to be able to protect themselves in that way. I am also pleased that several representatives have mentioned the work that I am aware of by the Riksadvokat, namely to look at special penalties against those who shoot at the police, and I will add special penalties against those who, in connection with car hunting, run away from the police and only risk fines. These are important measures. But in sum, we choose, in the balance between the legal dilemmas that lie in all the rights of the accused in a court case, and the fact that the rule of law should also have the opportunity to reach the extreme forms of crime, to stand on what is happening. We also do it in the soberness that we think there are few cases involved, but there is a very important signal through the actions that have been promoted. It is also important for society that we are willing to evaluate it after a four–five-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e335	Many suggest that criminals more than before are perpetrating violence or threatening to engage in violence against criminals in criminal matters. The purpose may be to prevent the crime from being reported, or to influence a testimony to the police or to the court, or it may simply be to sue someone who has participated in criminal proceedings. Police and prosecution authorities report that in recent years we have seen a trend towards professional criminals making greater use of violence and/or threats in order to safeguard their interests and also to make police investigations more difficult. In specific cases, people often change the explanation during investigation, or a witness in court denies the content of previous explanations. In some cases, there is reason to believe that he has received serious threats, particularly in serious drug cases. There are rarely threats to the police and their families. There have also been cases of serious threats to judges. A fundamental feature of a legal society like ours is that offenders should be held accountable, at least if the crime is of a certain seriousness. When witnesses are exposed to threats from the accused or persons in his environment, it is a serious threat to the legal community. Our ability to combat serious crime is weakened, because witnesses and others do not dare to stand up with what they have experienced and know. In today’s bill, the Ministry has made a number of changes to the criminal law and the Criminal Procedures Act in order to protect the actors in criminal cases against threats and reprisals. I am pleased that a unanimous judiciary broadly supports the proposals contained in the motion for a resolution. Proposals must be seen in the context of two other important legislative changes in recent years, the introduction of new rules on the collection of dividends and the introduction of new rules on investigation methods. Together, these legislative changes should make police and prosecution authorities better equipped to combat organised crime and other serious crime. If the experience shows that we have further needs, I am prepared to come back to Stortinget with it. The proposal to open up the use of anonymous witnesses in Norwegian criminal cases, but under strict conditions, will meet the needs set out by the representative Krohn Devold in his statement. I agree that there are important dilemmas here. But I believe that the proposal that the Ministry and the Government have made has been able to balance the dilemma we face. I do not therefore agree with the SV in the proposal they have made, because I am afraid that we are not fulfilling the purpose we want to pursue, if we only give the opportunity to conduct anonymous police witnesses. In particular, I would like to point out what the representative, Mr Halvorsen, pointed out that this is not often about threats to witnesses of chance. I would point out that it is a problem that we do not really know that, because when witnesses are exposed to threats, they do not come to the police and courts. The second thing I would like to point out is that the proposal for an SV also excludes the possibility of using anonymous witnesses in all other stages of criminal proceedings than the court itself. I believe that the possibility of using anonymous witnesses can be practically as important at the investigation stage, where informants can be used – it will not be decisive in the final court hearing, but will provide the police with the necessary information to go further in the investigation. I stress that the Ministry's assessment is that the scheme does not conflict with our international human rights obligations and that the European Court of Human Rights has accepted the use of anonymous witnesses. It is mentioned here that as important as legislative changes are to be able to obtain witness protection, and I agree with that. And I agree with the committee's proposal to extend the right to expel defendants or others from the courtroom when a witness under the age of 18 explains itself. It's a reasonable extension. The issue of personal data protection is also important, and the Ministry is already working, together with the Ministry of Finance, to implement such changes that we can protect personal data more effectively. I am also prepared to have a great deal of pressure on the work of developing an idea manual for use in matters where there is a need to protect witnesses, and I am definitely taking with me the invitation from the representative Dørum to look at this in a Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e354	The speakers who have the floor hereafter shall have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e357	The chairman of the Judicial Committee, Kristin Krohn Devold, gave an excellent description of how it feels to young people in the 14th, 15th and 16th years of age to stand up and witness to investigators and criminal youths and to be a lifeguard for revenge reactions from harsh criminal environments. What worries me is that the Socialist Left Party does not want to give any protection to these young people who are terrified when they are forced to stand up in court, but wants to restrict access to anonymous witnessing in order to protect police officers. I find it both inhumane and unworthy to force these young people to witness in full openness when they risk being mentally and physically crushed by hard criminal youth. The option of letting these young people out of their way to witness at all is not an acceptable alternative, because it will lead to the release of these criminal youths, the detectives, the criminals, the criminals, and the continuation of their destructive activity against other people. Anonymous witnessing is the only alternative. I understand the concerns of the Socialist Left Party. The arguments used are relevant enough, but they must be seen in relation to the heartbreaking rawness it is not to have access to anonymous witnessing and thus force people to stand up in a witness box saving lives for their own lives and health and saving lives for the family's life and health. So the Socialist Left Party argues that it's not that often there's a need for anonymous witnesses, because threats to random passersby or victims don't happen often. Well, you don't know so much about that, but now let's say that was the case. Then there is no argument against allowing anonymous witnessing in cases where it is necessary, rather on the contrary. If this is not a major problem and it will not happen in so many legal cases, it should also be possible for the Socialist Left to provide protection for these victims, but unfortunately SV's position in this case shows that SV does not have much care for the victims of crime. Finally, the representative, Kristin Krohn Devold, referred to the fact that the Committee unanimously asks the Government to raise the issue of increased penalties in cases where police officers are being shot. I guess that's good. But Kristin Krohn Devold and other representatives of the majority do not want to increase the minimum and maximum penalties in cases where other types of brutal violence against police officers, i.e. the threat of dry fists, weapons of strike or knives, are used. It doesn't give police officers the protection they want. I expect that the Norwegian police force will notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e370	I just want to begin by saying that when we get our own case back again on how to deal with threats with firearms against the police, we will have the full opportunity to go through other kinds of violence threats against the police, and that reserves the right, of course, to do so. But we just want to deal with all these questions together after the Riksadvokat has submitted its recommendation. But what I drew for was essentially the proposal from Kristin Halvorsen. SV has a disability and it is that they are not given the opportunity to participate in the Committee’s hearings. There's a lot of useful information out there. Many of these examples concern, for example: After all, the situation of random witnesses has often come to us in committee hearings, both when we have met representatives of Scandinavian police working against organised criminal environments – a seminar we had at the Oslo Police Chamber – and during hearings, for example. from Kripos. I would therefore like to mention a very concrete example of threats to incidental witnesses. This example is from Sweden, and that might be okay, because then it makes it a little easier to keep the matter hidden from the Norwegian environment: There were three people in a square who witnessed a cruel mistreatment. That's something that happens quite often. Assault and violence occur in public space, and incidentally passersby can see it. What happened, of course, was that these witnesses were willing to make a police statement. But then they were visited at home one by one of the organized MC environments. They were threatened, not just to draw their explanations, but to pay compensation to the rapist for the loss of his job that was inflicted on him by the fact that this case was at all reported. Three Witness families were terrorized and mentally destroyed, and the Witness families and parents were not followed up seriously enough when they addressed the police. It should be unnecessary to say that all the witnesses drew their explanations. This was an example of the organised criminal environment in Sweden. Cripos was quite clear that such things also happen in Norway. The fact that we are in the forefront of European legislation to follow up these specific situations is something Norway should take credit for once. There's no goal in itself always to come to the bottom. We have the Council of Europe's recommendation in our backs, and we have specific judges in the European Court of Justice in our backs to allow anonymous witnessing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e381	I would just like to point out that in the final proposal in the vote there is a deficiency. Paragraphs 245 and 284, which I referred to in my main post, talk about insults and witnesses under 18 years of age. It is now stated in Section 245: «In the hearing of offended persons or of a witness under 18...» and in Section 284: «In the hearing of offended persons or a witness under 18 years...» It can be interpreted as meaning that both offended persons and the witness must be under 18 years of age. What has to be said there is: ‘In the hearing of offended persons or in the hearing of witnesses under the age of 18...’ Otherwise there may be a restriction. Today it's for offended people anyway, and we don't want that restricted. I'm going to be logged so we get it fixed in both paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e386	What surprises me in this matter is that there is not much more focus on what you actually do to protect witnesses who are known for the purpose. Because that's going to be the usual situation. In most cases there, for example: Youth is the victim of childhood, the victims are people who the targeted ones know who is. We know that in very many such cases people are subjected to serious violence or threats, threats to the babysitter, etc. So the main focus in securing witnesses and making people dry is on how to actually ensure security for those who are targeted or targeted by the environment knows who is. That's the main point. But there the committee is almost completely uninterested. The Committee and the Ministry do not wish to establish a witness protection programme. Although we could see the Nordic region as a whole – as the representative of Dørum was in it – in the most dramatic cases, where it is about changing identity, for example, you are recognized as a Nordic in Denmark or Sweden, and especially in Finland. So we are in a particularly demanding situation in such a small, transparent society as we are to ensure the safety of witnesses, and we have less opportunity to ensure the anonymity of witnesses than most other countries. It's a special challenge for us, and there should be the main focus. I see that in the setting it is formulated in such a way that reference is made to the first and second paragraphs of Section 130a of the next paragraph, which is 234a. Our opinion with the proposal has been to say that we see that police officers can be in special situations. But we fear that you can get into situations that are related to the conviction of, for example, people from the MC environment or serious drug crime. For the ministry says that anonymous witnessing cannot be decisive for judging a person. So by opening up anonymous witnessing, you can invite people who were initially prepared to witness with a full name, to want anonymous witnessing. So you can be in a situation where it becomes more difficult to judge those who have actually committed crimes. These are situations that are extremely difficult to deal with. But where I would like it to be further progressed by the Ministry of Justice – I imagine to ask the Minister of Justice if so too – is: you need to have a plan at all the police chambers, where there are regular contact persons, where those who are threatened know that they are being protected immediately, that they may have an alarm, that the family members may have it, that efforts are much more concentrated on how to actually secure witnesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e395	I asked for the word just to comment on this with the protection of witnesses. First I want to say that it must be possible to do several things at once. It must be possible to be concerned with the proposals made in this proposition and to make those changes, even if it is also seen that there is a need to do something in relation to the protection of witnesses who testify in a general, transparent manner. And there I think, first of all, that we already have a good deal of opportunities for that. Both a restraining order and a violent alarm are two instruments that have become more effective in recent years and are good instruments for the protection of witnesses. What we do with personal data, to protect identity, is another step in that direction. In addition, we have worked on more than one idea manual, i.e. a more comprehensive overview, just to spread to the different politicians other ways of protecting witnesses than the three more obvious instruments that I have already pointed out. So I don't feel like this is empty on one side and full on the other, to say it like that. Here I see it as if you're trying to follow multiple tracks at once.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e402	A few things in relation to what the representative, Kristin Halvorsen, was into – first of all, about this with Witness programs. When we say no to that, it's not because we don't want to go through the different parts and possibilities that exist here. We want to get a comprehensive overview of the practical measures as soon as possible, so that we can implement things when necessary. What's in this is that we want quick action, and it's unnecessary to create a complete program. Otherwise, when it comes to making a decision on whether or not to have anonymous witnesses, we have stressed – as I said in my speech – that a judicial decision should be taken by the Court of Justice. And there the different conditions will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. Of course, there can be cases where there can be a criminal who can have his own motives for witnessing, right? That may be the case, and there may be other cases where there are random witnesses, so that the overall situation in each case is to be assessed before an authorisation is granted. These are exceptional cases we're talking about, and the threshold must be high, it must be absolutely clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e409	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 528]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e423	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working party 10 minutes, other groups 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e432	It is as the President said: this case concerns the completion of criminal proceedings, among others. between Norway and Thailand. It may be appropriate to negotiate with other countries similar agreements to those concluded between Norway and Thailand. The Committee agrees that the possibility for Nordics to be penalised abroad may be granted the penalty in Norway. Further to the proposal of the Ministry of Justice for an extension of the right to enter into agreements on the enforcement of foreign criminal convictions in general. In exceptional cases, it shall be possible to consider transferring jurisdictions to and from Norway without the existence of a general transfer agreement between Norway and the country concerned. It is important to note that transfer to Norway may take place without re-establishment of the penalty, even if the penalty is stricter than it could have been in Norway for similar offences. The authorities shall not carry out any automated request for transfer of Nordics convicted abroad who have requested a transfer to Norwegian prisons. Involvement in e.g. Drug traffic or child abuse should always pose a calculated risk of highly severe punishment, not only in Norway, but in many countries. In any case, a specific assessment will have to be made in the individual case of whether or not a transfer should be made, based on the applicable legislation and agreements concluded. The problem of ‘double criminality’ is seen. In cases where foreign convictions are available for acts not covered by Norwegian law, it would not normally be appropriate, in the Committee's view, to transfer sentences to continued imprisonment or detention in Norway. Norwegian authorities have to assess whether a transfer could be contrary to our human rights obligations. What I am thinking about is that, as with Norwegian eyes, it must be regarded as the lawful exercise of freedom of expression, or, for that matter, the freedom of religion, through political and diplomatic channels, it is necessary to seek the release of the State of Justice. If necessary, the involvement of international bodies should be considered. It may be difficult to obtain into an agreement on the transfer of jurisdiction that the State of completion shall have the right of refusal. There should be no requirement for this, especially in the case of criminal offences in Norway. The agreement with Thailand provides that the State of completion may provide for a new and lower penalty where required by law, but if the new penalty is lower than the remaining penalty period in the State of jurisdiction, the State of jurisdiction may refuse the transfer. I would also like to emphasise a reference to which an overall committee is behind, that an additional protocol to the Convention of Europe has been drawn up in the Council of Europe to ease the requirement for convictions to consent to transfer in certain cases. It is worth noting that the Committee agrees to this, and also recommends that consent be given by the Stortinget to the agreement concluded between Norway and Thailand. For its part, the party to the progress will stress the importance of the judgment normally punishing the penalty imposed in the country in question so that the payment is not impaired by the transfer and the possibility of compensation in its country of origin. Therefore, it would be beneficial for the method of payment to be used as a general rule, so that convictions must be punishable by a penalty which is no lower than that prescribed by the Member State of judgment, but not more than that which is the maximum penalty for the same situation in Norway. I would also like to highlight two aspects of which the Progress Party is very concerned. Firstly, it should be an obligation for nationals to zone in their home Member State when required by the home Member State, without the jurisdiction having the option or right to oppose it, and therefore proposes, in line with this, a clarification in the new Section 12, which is described in our proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox Furthermore, we are in principle against dual citizenship. Persons who are Norwegian nationals in addition to nationals of their country of origin should be subject to a prison sentence in their country of origin or in the country of jurisdiction. Therefore, what I have just outlined should be taken into account in further agreements concluded by Norway on the transfer of jurisdictions. With this, I also take up the proposals of the Progress Party, No. 1 and 2, and will ask for a separate vote on each of the proposals. I would also like to draw the President's attention to the fact that in the introduction to proposal No. 1 is a mistake. the introductory part is replaced by the following: ‘Law of 20 July 1991 No 67 on the transfer of jurisdictions shall be amended as follows:’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e467	Jørn L. Stang has addressed the proposals to which he referred and has also corrected the legislative text of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e470	In general, there is agreement on the arrangement outlined in the proposal, and I can agree with the rapporteur's statement on the comments of an overall committee. Nevertheless, I would like to take the time to make some additional comments where the Committee has shared its views on the basis of agreements with other countries on the transfer of jurisdictions. The Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party say that the basis for new bilateral agreements shall be the European Convention of Transfer and the applicable Transmission Act, with the exceptions which the Stortingeen approves here today. Maybe it's a matter of course. At the same time, it is said from the Right and the Advance Party that, as a general rule, the method of payment should be used for agreements with other countries. The European Convention on Transport is the basic principle of our legislation and should be it for agreements with other countries. Under this Convention, the State of completion is given the option to choose between converting the sentence or continuing the payment. Although enforcement is still decided, the penalty shall always be reduced where it exceeds the maximum penalty for a similar offence in the State of enforcement. Today’s general rule is that the completion method is to be used. However, today’s legislation is designed for the transfer under the Convention in force between European States, where there are strong similarities between criminal law traditions. The countries with which Norway is concerned to conclude new bilateral agreements will often have stricter criminal law and more stringent measurement practices than Norway. We have noticed that several hearing bodies have concerns about accepting to execute longer penalties than you would or could condemn. For example, the Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of Justice of Justice of the European Communities, the Court of Justice of However, such cases should be an exception insofar as Norway should have agreements with other countries. Of course, it will be the jurisdiction that will have the decisive word. In our view, when the Right Party and the Advance Party state that the method of completion is to be used, this does not take account of the intentions of the European Convention on Transfer or Norwegian legislation, nor does it reflect the scepticism of the national lawyer. In a simpler language, this means that the Norwegian authorities should try to ensure agreements that provide for the possibility of assessing completion or conversion in individual cases. This means that one should ensure the possibility of converting the penalty in cases where it seems unreasonable to be strict under Norwegian law or where the penalty exceeds the penalties for similar conditions in Norway. It should not initially be an objective for Norway, in cases where, on request, a Norwegian national has a contract and chooses to take home a Norwegian national for compensation in Norway, that he shall subject the multiple of convictions for similar cases in Norway, even if it does not exceed the maximum penalty. In any case, agreements require agreement with the jurisdiction. Only this to clarify the content of comments from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party versus comments from the Right and the Advance Party, which it is not as easy to read directly from the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e485	The right is in the main areas of the proposal for amendments to the Transfer Act, which means that bilateral agreements on the enforcement of foreign criminal convictions can be implemented without further legal decisions, that the enforcement of the judgment in the rule is to be carried out with the consent of the sentenced person, and that enforcement is to be carried out in accordance with Norwegian prison law. Nevertheless, the general rule should continue to be that a judgment issued abroad should be served there, but with the possibility of transfer if specific circumstances so warrant. The possibility and chance of being rehabilitated in society can be such a circumstance. On the other hand, all Nordics should be aware that some countries have very severe penalties, for example. drug and sexual abuse of children. Countries outside the Western world must not get the impression that we see the disadvantage of such crime, and that we are almost automatically complying with a natural wish from the courts to have zones in Norway. We would therefore like to stress from the Right that the general rule must be that a judgment abroad must be served there, but that there is a possibility of transfer if special circumstances warrant it. That's why we think it's right to have the most flexibility in the solution. If transfer takes place, enforcement must not be impaired and convictions must be punishable no less than the penalty imposed by the court of the country in which the offence was committed, but, of course, not more than the maximum penalty for the same conditions in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e492	The proposal now under consideration by Odelstinget is a legislative amendment that will lead to a substantial extension of the right to enter into bilateral agreements on the enforcement of foreign criminal convictions. This will also allow Norway to enter into an agreement between Norway and Thailand on cooperation in the preparation of criminal law responses. Furthermore, Norway will be able to accede to an additional protocol to the Convention which makes some exceptions to the requirement that it consent to the transfer. Punishment of a foreign judge's freedom sentence may be harsh. The sentence is usually far from relatives and friends and cannot necessarily be spoken. Conditions in prisons may be poor, and housing abroad may not least make it difficult for the sentence to be returned to society. It is therefore desirable that Nordics convicted abroad be given an opportunity to zone in Norway. Similarly, provision should be made to enable foreigners convicted in Norway to have a zone in their country of origin. The transfer law as it stands today offers little opportunity to enforce the penitentiary sentence imposed in countries outside Europe. However, the need for transfer may be at least equivalent in cases where a Norwegian is convicted in a non-European country. A more comprehensive approach to implementing bilateral agreements for the completion of foreign criminal convictions is supported both for humanitarian purposes and for the purpose of rehabilitation. And I also mention that most hearing bodies are positive to the draft law. The legislative proposal opens the way for the penalty to be enforced in Norway, even if it exceeds the penalties for similar situations in Norway. Someone has found this objectionable, and it could be. The alternative may be that the judgment must instead be given in the jurisdiction, despite the fact that he wishes to serve in the home Member State, but will nevertheless be subject to the total penalty imposed in the jurisdiction. At my discretion, in such cases, Norwegian authorities should be able to try to obtain enforcement in order to reverse the penalty, so that it falls within Norwegian penalties. I find it difficult to understand the minority, which is made up of the Right Party and the Advance Party, who say that the principle of compensation should be applied without further ado, precisely because you will be able to get some very extreme results from conditions that are severely penalised in countries with a different culture, far away from Norway – then you come home and do a terrible much longer sentence than the man on the neighbouring cell, who has done exactly the same. In addition, I disagree with the proposals made by the Progress Party that the court should be obliged to serve in the country of which he is a national. Transfer to the home Member State against the will of the judgment should only take place in cases where the judgment has moved to the home Member State in order to avoid the punishment and in cases where convictions are to be expelled as a result of the conviction. The proposal of the Progress Party will significantly extend this. The judgment may be strongly linked to Norway even if he or she does not have citizenship here. If he/she is to continue to live in Norway when the sentence is due, completion in another country may destroy the possibility of an effective return to Norwegian society. And this is all the more applicable in the cases raised in the case of dual citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e505	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 532]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e519	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e528	The Law of 20 December 1996 has not yet entered into force, despite the fact that it is now more than three and a half years since the law was passed by the Stortinget. The size provided for the removal of price regulations by legal proceedings and the possibility of regulating the fixation fee on a regulatory basis other than the index of consumer prices when the contract provides for regulation on a different basis, e.g.: empty value. In Ot.prp. No 28 for 1995-96, the Ministry of Justice joined a proposal from the Committee on Civil Liberties to repeal the price regulation. At the same time, it was proposed that the fixed fee for residential and leisure homes should only be regulated after the change in the value of the money, unless another agreed method of regulation would result in a lower charge. The majority of the population did not support the Ministry's proposal for the regulation of fast fees. A majority of the Judicial Committee, consisting of the Central Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party, registered in the Inner East. O. No 85 for 1995-96 ‘that, in the vast diversity of existing fast rates, a number of unfairnesses have developed over time. The majority believe that the parties should have greater freedom to conclude divergent agreements than that resulting from the proposal. Older agreements on the regulation of the fast fee should, in the view of the majority, be respected, unless they are unfair in the light of a concrete assessment and should be revised, for example. on the basis of Section 36 of the Contracts Act». The Ministry of Justice found out, however, that the Law on Santa Claus could not be implemented in accordance with the principles laid down by the Stortinget Act. The Ministry of Justice therefore sent out a new legislative proposal on 29 October 1998 to be consulted with a view to delimiting the right to regulation according to the value of land in the area of the house(s). The proposal was based on various grounds of massive opposition from almost all hearing bodies. Everyone also rejected it because it was very complicated to understand and apply in practice. The Ministry of Justice then promoted a bill to the Stortinget that was to ‘hit better’ than what was rejected by almost all hearing bodies. The Ministry agrees that Section 15 on the regulation of the fast fee will change before the law enters into force. At the Committee's examination it became early clear that there was no majority in favour of any party's views or proposals. The proposal of the Workers' Party is therefore the recommendation of the Committee. It is equally clear that the Ministry's proposal in the proposal, as proposed in the vote by the Christian People's Party, will receive subsidiary support from other parties here today. I assume that representatives of the other parties in their submissions will justify their proposals. I therefore allow myself to explain the view of the Centre Party. The Ministry claims that there are social considerations behind the proposal. The legislative proposal has the following consequences for both housing and cabin areas where the contract has agreed on land-based regulation: 1st@item: inlistbox The principle of temporary price regulation is maintained as permanent in the Law on Landfill for Contracts concluded on or before 26 May 1983.2. Upholstery is not allowed unless NOK 9 000 per year. derecognised on a basis other than a change in monetary value. This means that for contracts that can be regulated by plot value, this regulatory basis is excluded if the charge after uplift exceeds NOK 9 000.3. The maximum amount of NOK 9000 is changed each year according to the index of consumer prices. There is also reason to note the following: The legislative proposal applies only where the contract between the landowner, the non-proprietary owner, and the owner of the house, the landowner, has agreed that the tax should be adjusted according to the value of the land. There's also a reason to notice that it's only for 20-25 pst. by the fixed contracts that charges may be regulated according to the land value. The rest of the agreements, i.e.: 75 to 80 pst., may be regulated by the contract only according to the index of consumer prices. So here the landowners have contractually committed themselves to using only the consumer price index, no matter how much increase it has been in plot value. In old contracts, before price increases speeded up in the 1960s, no regulatory basis or deadlines have been agreed. Here, in 1988, the Supreme Court has allowed for up-regulation by consumer price index every 10 years. In the center part, we are clearly of the opinion that the return on the plot value belongs to a fastener, not a Santa. Where the contract provides for the adjustment of the fastening charge to be made by land value, it is because of the fact that landowners and not land fasteners shall be entitled to the return on any increase in capital which may not be due to the measures of the land attaching the land. It is therefore important for landowners to ensure the regulation of the property income in such a way that the landowner receives annual returns in relation to the land value at all times on the used land. In the case of an increase in the land value during the fastening period, the fixation fee must therefore be increased accordingly. The main intention of the centre party was to stand on the 1996 decision, with a gradual escalation over 10 years. In this process, however, after an overall assessment where we have focused on social considerations, we will hold fast to living outside. So here we're going to go into the Ministry's proposal. I also refer to my comments in the setting. However, I am very pleased that there is a proposal to ask the Government to evaluate Section 15 of the Landfill Act and its practical effect after two years from the date of entry into force, and that the result is presented to the Stortinget as its own case. This will give us a concrete and useful opportunity to assess the impact of the proposal. Finally, I would like to include the proposal of the Centre Party in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e587	Tor Nymo has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e590	Regulating the contractual relationship between private parties is a difficult exercise to submit to the legislator. Because no relationship is punctuated in practice, it is difficult or impossible to predict all the consequences of regulation. Nevertheless, legislation is rich in examples of how we operate such regulation, not only through the general rules of unfairness, but also in various areas, such as: the purchase and sale of real estate and the purchase and sale of movable property and of financial contracts. There is often reason to enter into the private contractual relationship, and sometimes there is greater reason for it than other times. First of all, it may be when it comes to matters that are of great personal importance to either or both of the parties. It may, on the other hand, be when there is a difference between the parties' power ratios; one must be considered to be a professional and the other a lone amateur. Third, there may be areas characterised by a lot of standard contracts or general contracts in which, in particular, one party has had no influence on the content. And fourthly, it could be when it's talking about old agreements. For land fastenings, most of the time all these criteria are met. It's about the home and home of people, or it's about the other people's homes, that's the cabin. These are often standard contracts. It's often about old agreements, and often little is written down about what you really meant. That is why we have also had a legal regulation of the land fasts since 1976, and therefore, since 1940, there have also been different forms of regulation at this very point in which we are making a change today, namely how to adjust the land fasts charge. Everyone knows the story that in 1983 we removed various price regulation schemes, which resulted in many unreasonable jumps in the land-filling charge. This gave us a new price adjustment that would apply to the agreements before 1983. In 1996, therefore, the Labour Party government proposed to remove this, as the rapporteur pointed out, and then the Workers' Party considered it much more tidy to have a clear rule that when regulating a land-filling fee, a price adjustment should be taken into account – after that. We are still on this point of view and therefore we are also promoting proposals on this. The objective must be to arrive at a regulation that provides a fair balance between the parties, and then it is necessary to address the situation at the time of the conclusion of the agreement. It was often standard contracts, it was often different strength ratios, and perhaps even more important: it was absolutely impossible for both parties to see what the concept of "pumple value" would mean for some generations to come. In this debate and in the work on the law, there have been objections that it is unreasonable that the increase in land value should not be attributed to the owner of the land. But is it really? The increase in the value of the land is usually not the owner's profit. Direct or indirect efforts may be made by the attachment. It may be the efforts of the public or the community, for example: for road, water and sewerage operations — items that can often be costed by the attachment. This may be due to policy decisions to re-regulate the area, and it may be due, in particular, to a general increase in wealth that has led to an increase in purchasing power, and thus to a market that is willing to pay more for the land. Often it is not the original party to the contract who is partying today, and those who have bought a dwelling or redeemed by inheritance a dwelling that is attached to a land, often pay as if it were an owned land, precisely because of the regulations that have been of the land attachment fee. In addition, the concept of ‘pure value’ is difficult to relate to in fasting conditions. They say that there's a mess without any construction, but it's going to be a hypothetical value because the buildings actually stand there. It will also have an impact in practice when you want to see what the land really is worth. Thus, it is a theoretical land value assessment that does not reflect actual conditions in practice. It is also important to bear in mind that price adjustment following a price adjustment is a practice. The parties have made arrangements after that. And the only thing that's moved by the expectations that it will continue like this, or the fear that something else could happen, is what happened in this Chamber in 1996, when the bourgeois majority voted for the amendment they made, a change in law that never came into force. In the course of the discussion, we have received numerous contacts both to the Committee, to the parties and to individual representatives, and what these contacts indicate is what this will mean in practice. We're talking about young newborns who have thought that they should deal with some expenses that it now turns out will jump so high that they just have to leave the house. These are minimum pensioners who do not have the opportunity to pay new party fees and who may have to leave their childhood home. These are quite serious consequences. It has been shown that the most unreasonable results will be captured by the safety valves we have in the contract law and the law on land fastening of unfair agreements. Unfortunately, the proposition and review of the Ministry have shown that it will be applicable in very few cases, because this new situation, which is perceived as unfair, will affect many, and that situation is misled by a majority of legislators, and then little helps with safety valves against unreasonableness. It is the oldest agreements which are worst affected by such an amendment adopted in 1996, the agreements concluded before 1983. The proposal for a maximum ceiling of NOK 9 000 per year. dekar will at least prevent the worst jumps. Hopefully, there's a lot of people who don't want to get close to $9,000, but where you're getting closer to it and going over it, you're going to be able to hold something back. Hopefully, there will be security for homes and homes for some more than if we had not introduced such a maximum. Therefore, the Workers' Party is subsidising the proposal contained in the proposal. Then the Christian People's Party has made a proposal to evaluate today's law decisions in two years' time. It's all right, but it might give you a strange signal. Now there has been a decision on ice since 1996, and then we have finally reached a compromise on how this can be continued. But then we say that it is a preliminary compromise, which is to be assessed again in two years' time! I think that if you were to evaluate something here, you should actually evaluate the whole scheme as such: if we were going to go into some transitional arrangements to look at the winding up of the scheme, or if it is so many positive features for both fasteners and fasteners that there is reason to maintain it, but perhaps under slightly different terms than what is there today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e621	The Law on Santa Claus is a typical example of how difficult individual laws can be. It may be because there are many politicians and bureaucrats who go too far in this depth and make heavy and large sentences that almost resemble a kind of chancellor language. Clearly, this is not to the benefit of either partying or partying what we are discussing today. And despite the adoption of the proposal to amend the Law on Santa Claus on 20 December 1996, it has taken three and a half years before the case has come back, and the law has not yet come into force! The Ministry wants to amend Section 15 on the regulation of the party fee “before the law enters into force”, as it is called. Thus, under the new Law on Landfills, Section 15, in all fast conditions, the fastage charge is to be regulated in accordance with the monetary value if no other form of regulation has been agreed, or it is undoubtedly agreed that the charge is not to be regulated. It is a pity that the same majority that existed in 1996 do not emphasise the same thing today, namely the desire for a greater degree of contractual freedom in the case of land consolidation agreements. Freedom of agreement should apply to a greater extent, including in the case of the realignment of fastening agreements, so as to allow maximum scope for adaptation to individual contractual relationships. It is also appropriate to stress that Section 11 of the Law on Landfilling does not provide for an undue charge for fastening – as things have already been taken care of. Today, the actual market price applies both on sale and on rental of land, as is most of all housing and real estate trade. Strange situations may arise when only a small part of the property market is priced, as is done here. For example, the market price for a single car park in Oslo today amounts to approximately NOK 10000-12000. The price for renting 1 covered residential property is proposed by the Ministry – and a majority supports it – to be limited to DKK 9 000 per year. years. The comparison here is approaching a cartoon. It can often be seen that it is not the original parties that will require redemption after, for example, 30–80 years. It's the party's heirs that do this. The unreasonable bill is also the visibility of the fact that after redemption the party can sell the property at full market price. It is only a point of sale protected by politicians, not the market for residential and recreational property as such. The new law of 1996 has not been implemented in contravention of all common practices. It must be said to be strange when more of the representatives of the Stortinget – the ones I am thinking of are representatives of the inter-parties – who provided for a new rule that was actually for the better, the time voted against the Workers' Party's proposal. When I hear the arguments of the representative Nymos, I have to say that I am more easily confused – I don't think it will be any better for them, namely parties and parties. There is now a completely new proposal which is very poorly justified. There is no description of the conditions of attachment which this will relate in particular to, and why precisely these agreements should have different rules and conditions than others. I ask myself what the Minister of Justice has of any comments on this bill, unless these changes intervene permanently and seriously in the private legal situation. I would just like to say at the end: the Advance Party will stand by the 1996 proposal on land management, and we are of the opinion that it will certainly be in the best interests of both parties and parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e647	The objective of the bill is to limit the right to regulation of fast fees where, in the case of older party conditions, it has been agreed that regulation should be made in a different way than after a change in the value of the money. It is proposed that a ceiling of NOK 9 000 per year should be set. dekker per dekker per dek. years. If the land is less than one deck, the fee shall nevertheless be up to NOK 9 000. However, this shall not preclude a higher fixed charge if a regulation according to the first paragraph of Section 15 on the basis of a change in monetary value so requires. Different forms of price regulation have so far constituted a barrier to the adjustment of fastening charges. This has always been favoured by the party, while the party has been curtailed for its interests and rights under the agreements concluded. The freezing of the level of fixed charges per year. 26 May 1983, which was intended to be temporary, has now existed for 27 years. It's a long wait. This unfairness should now be established. At the time of the 1996 law on Santa Claus, the Christian People's Party was part of the majority who felt that the parties should have greater freedom to conclude dissenting agreements than was the result of the proposals of the Labour Party Government. We still believe this. However, we would like to thank you for not creating new ambiguities. A regulation in accordance with Section 15 of 1996 could lead to a very large increase in fixed charges for some of the older fastening agreements. This solution, now proposed, was not discussed in 1996, and we believe it is better, as it is balanced and seeks to take care of both parties in the fixation relationship. It cannot be ruled out that it may have been quite random how some of the party contracts were designed, that you would like to use the standard contract you had by hand. It might be worth noting that it's only 20-25 pst. of the fastenings for cabins where the charge can be regulated according to the emptying value. So the majority can only be regulated according to the consumer price index. However, it cannot be ignored that the landowners who in their time chose to attach away instead of selling, and chose to link the regulation to the assessment of the land price at the time of the regulation, made deliberate choices. It is therefore unreasonable whether the fixation fee should be regulated only after the change in monetary value. On the other hand, it must be assumed that land prices are not guided unilaterally by market forces but also by a number of public acts and political decisions. It is usually the authorities that act as regular, both in terms of development, trajectory and protection, and that facilitate an increase in land prices in certain areas, and perhaps a reduction in prices, even in construction bans in other areas. The provision of social services – the degree of urbanisation, infrastructure in the form of roads and public transport, employment opportunities, school and cultural provision – are essential factors when market prices of land are created in an area, and are as important as the private economy of the individual. Some parts of the country are dominated by a large landowner or actor who almost holds a monopoly position in relation to several small landowners. The party may then have little opportunity to influence the prices. How well do market forces work in such a situation? Had one had a free market, it was up to any landowner to attach away or sell the plots that were most in demand. It's not like that. Our society is governed by far more mechanisms than the market. The Christian People's Party is committed to weighing the different considerations against each other. A home should be able to survive even if the land prices in the area increase unexpectedly. On the other hand, we want the landowner to realize a larger part of his values. We believe that the proposed ceiling of NOK 9 000 will mean an acceptable increase from the standard fixation fee level today, for both parties. Capitalised this corresponds to an empty value of 180000 – 200000 kroner. In the hearing opinions, several argue that a change in the law would be problematic in relation to the Basic Law §§ 97 and 105. It is also claimed that the rules of Section 36 of the Contract Act provide good enough protection against an excessive increase in attachment charges. Which protection § 36 would provide against a large increase in the fixed charges if § 15 entered into force unchanged, while the price regulations fall away, is unclear, but several factors suggest that the contract law can difficult to get much to say where an older party agreement provides for up-regulation based on plot value. As far as the Constitution is concerned, we believe that this matter concerns a political issue where the Constitution allows legislators to determine the rules that they think would be best. It is already three and a half years since the last case was pending. I therefore assume that the department will ensure a rapid entry into force of the law. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I address the proposals No. 1 and 2 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e675	Kari Økland has addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e678	This is a good day for traditional, socialist breakup of power, which believes that public governance of an agreement between two parties is better suited to reaching a good agreement than that of the parties themselves. The Empty Party Act is the latest seizure of post-war rigid regulation instruments in terms of housing and leisure properties. The representative of Ane Sofie Tmärås can measure this traditional, social-democratic view very well. There are different reasons for determining the value of a property. This, of course, does not apply only to immovable property. This applies to all property. And to the extent that Ane Sofie Tömrås" description of the bottomless social distress that would result from people paying a party fee that was market-adapted should be correct, it's a dramatic description of the outcome of the Workers' Party's influence on Norwegian society over the last 50 years. That's why I think I just want to say that here we have two different views, so that the Labour Party's argument can lie with me in the rest of the debate. It's a lot worse that the parties that were once bourgeois have left their positions in a few years. For, in the change of line following the submission of Mr Anders C. Sjaastad on 25 November 1996, the main speaker of the Workers' Party, Mr Olav Aksen, said: ‘Here we have a case in which traditional political divisions emerge.’ This factual information was confirmed by the rapporteur. In 1996, the majority of the majority in the Grand Duchy held ownership rights. In the same way as e.g. in expropriation laws, the Christian People's Party has turned away from previous attitudes, and in this case they have also in reality been succeeded by the Center Party. The rapporteur's statement was an outstanding explanation of the position of the parties three years ago. What was a clear civil majority in 1996 is changed to a social issue, where, first of all, the social aspect is more than difficult to see, and to the extent that such an aspect exists, the traditional basic values are to finance the generosity of the majority. This case is also a sad example of Storting's inability to win respect for its decisions. Governments come and go – the government stands, it's called. Rarely is this statement more clearly documented than in this case. Here you keep going until you find a government council or two plus a magnification that is unprincipled in relation to your own decision, and then you get what you want. The previous speech on Santa Claus was issued on 21 June 1996 and was debated on 25 November of the same year. So it's taken almost four years, and the law hasn't come into force. On the contrary, it is trained and transformed. In March 1999, I raised this question in writing to the Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum. The question was very simple: ‘Is there a lack of willingness in the Ministry of Justice to accept the majority decision of the Storting that the law is not in force and that the Ministry sends to the hearing a position previously rejected by the Stortinget?’ The answer was, as one might expect, that the Government had come to the conclusion that the majority's decision should be reviewed. "Revaluable" means, as we understand, the language of the department to change the law to a position that was not consistent with the majority of the population. It's sad that a majority on the Biggest can be treated in such a way. The reactions to the new abuse of power against landowners are very large, e.g.. from Norway's Bondelag and from the Skogeiierbundet. The landowners are encouraged in settings and parties to extend the income base on their properties, but in practical policy this right is taken away from them. In the law on land fasts, it is double incomprehensible, because here you are faced with an agreement between two landowners, the owners of the land and the owners of the dwelling. In 1996, the majority of the population found a good balance between the rights and interests of the two owners, whereas today's majority believe that this must be regulated at the expense of the one. If any of the parties thought they had won, I can assure them that they are wrong. You don't win any permanent right at the expense of others. The roof of the party fees that are now being introduced – for this time, the law is probably being implemented without delay – involves a transfer of value from the owner to the owner of the house. Such an arrangement would make it uninteresting for the parties to buy their own land, but rather seems to be an incentive to maintain the bonding relationship. For fasteners, the Feast Institute will lose its real significance. A natural consequence will be that many fortifiers are profiting from cancelling many of the current party contracts. A gruesome example of the consequences of the majority's position is seen in the Municipality of Oslo. In reality, the municipality will only be able to collect 20 pst. based on the values that land really represents. A number of privileged partyers shoes themselves in this way on money that the Municipality of Oslo could badly need for more civic tasks. The right, like the Progress Party, will, of course, support the proposal that we put together with the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in 1996 as well. Now there are some new suggestions on the table. The proposal of the Christian People's Party for an evaluation after two years will be supported by the Right under strong doubt. The doubt is there because it mostly reminds me of a fog laying to hide that you have gone from what you previously stood for. When we find that we want to support it, it's because in two years' time we're going to face a new expansion, and then it can be thought that the voters are making sure that we get a big one that has the same understanding of landowners' rights as the big one that passed a law that's been trained for four years, i.e. in 1996. I just want to remind you that if that happens, we've been waiting for four years, so we're going to have two years of evaluation, and then we're going to have a year of trial. In other words, it's been seven years before you possibly get what Stortinget wanted at the time, and for which I think and hope there will be a majority in the Biggest coming. Of course, with regard to the proposal of the Centre Party, we will not support it. We cannot have a law in this country that has a set of rights for different types of landowners; in this case, in reality, based on the postal code of the individual landowners. This type of attempt to buy votes does not sound good in Norwegian policy practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e719	This is a matter that affects us all regardless of whether it is those who party away, or those who have a party. It's a not insignificant commitment. I will stick to what I myself am responsible for, and I was responsible for the proposition that underlies this matter, and I just want to state that the Left is committed to what we presented there. It means, in practice, that we support the proposal presented by the Christian People's Party here today, and as I see it, from the comments of the Labour Party, will have a majority. I am also a follower of the proposal of the Christian People's Party to evaluate this after two years, and that's from the following simple reason: I actually spent a lot of time as a government council to get into the mysteries of the Santa Claus Act. I will not claim that I saw all the light at that review, but at least I was convinced that it was so complex in the balance between the different interests that it is a fair and open matter to be able to come back and see how this now works in practice. With regard to the situation in the Municipality of Oslo, I guess you could also be able to make such an evaluation here. However, I would like to point out that the Municipality of Oslo for a long time, long before this law became applicable, has ensured that the parties were sold. I myself live on such a feast that was long ago sold to a landowner, who sold it on to another, who sold it on to another, and who finally sold it to me. This essentially includes a very large part of the residential property in Oslo, but because there may be a difference between these properties and those that are elsewhere, I feel that it is one of the conditions that you have to look at. So without putting anything else into it than what I'm now saying, I think there's a real thing in things that are complex, to be able to come back to the matter and look at it with open and healthy eyes. So the left will vote in that way both at the odelsting treatment here today and later in the Storting in the matter that belongs there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e732	I asked for the word when the representative Hernæs made comments, because I needed to comment on what I thought was a relatively unreasonable attack on the office. I have not intended to comment or answer for the changing political leadership in the Ministry of Justice has done in terms of the implementation or non-implementation of the Law on Landfills, as it was adopted in 1996. But whatever's done or not done by changing political leadership, it's the responsibility of the Council of State, and I think it's completely unreasonable to attack the office for what's done or not done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e739	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 535]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e753	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes and Representative Bastisen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e762	The proposal to set a per mill limit of 0.2 affects some rather principled guidelines on what we're going to use the law for. The State Attorney, as the country's top prosecution authority, expresses great concern, and he says that it is serious to deal with criminal acts that were previously punishable. It represents a so-called neocriminalisation of ordinary people. Introducing punishment should be a strong response to undesirable behaviour, and it should be used primarily where there is reason to show a great deal of renunciation on the part of society, I would say morally reprehensible actions, for example. drug offences, fraud. Otherwise, we should also cover penalised areas where there are strong societal concerns, for example. in the case of regulatory laws relating to tax laws, customs infringements, etc. But confiscating with punishment things that have more symbolic effect or are kind of a moral twist, one should be extremely careful with. The lawyer said that when the limit of 0.5 per million was set in 1936, it was also relatively subdued. But today we have research results, research results that show that there is an increased risk of driving with alcohol in the blood, especially with promille from 0.4 to 0.5 and up. What we risk by reducing the limit to 0.2 is that we take a strong step towards the general freedom of action of the population without the intervention being supported by solid and relevant arguments, and it should not be an argument for introducing a legal provision and a penalty for having certain abstinence policy positions. The Advocate General is quite clear, together with the Association of Advocates, that there is no scientific or empirical evidence to suggest that an alcohol influence in the range of 0,2 to 0,4 affects the ability to drive a motor vehicle to such an extent that it presents some increased risk to road safety. What is at risk by introducing this limit is that people can raise questions about whether it's right and sensible, and it can actually help to reduce respect for the law. If that's the result of changing this limit, we've achieved the opposite of what we wanted. Another important point from the Riksadvokat is that he says it is difficult to design appropriate legal response rules for an exceedance of the 0,2 limit, and there should be an independent argument against lowering the pro-mille limit. I fully agree with the Riksadvokat that it should not be a normal reaction to lose your certificate after driving between 0.2 and 0.4-0.5. In this case, you should have driven with the prom several times – and also with over 0.5. These important principal objections from the country's top prosecution powers are not only fully shared by the Law Association, but also by the legal expertise, such as the law enforcement association. Professor Andenaes. He wrote in a chronicle in the Evening Post on December 20, 1999, that this would be a step in the wrong direction, and that the Sanctions Council had also recommended letting it be. In addition to these judicial hearing bodies, other professional experts have also expressed their views, including: The State Judicial Physiological Institute. They state that the legislative proposal will have a clearly uncertain impact on fewer road users, and equally important: there will be completely different proposals that will have a much better dietary benefit if the aim is to reduce the accidents themselves. In other words, measures other than this ‘0,2’ approach should simply be considered, the objective of which is to improve road safety. Experience from Sweden following the introduction of a per mille limit of 0.2 was, however, a decrease in traffic fatalities of 8 pst. However, both Norway and Finland had a decrease in accidents of 20 and 22 p.p.s. respectively. during the same period without having introduced the 0,2 limit. And one more recent study from Australia in 1999, which includes as much as 2,500 traffic-killed people, a study presented by the State's forensic institute at the hearing in the committee, shows that for the range of 0.1-0.5 per million, there was no increase in risk that has affected traffic-killed people — none, in the latest study presented. This clearly recommends that the State juridical institute should adopt a completely different approach and that the proposed law should be sent back. The L.O. and the police have also expressed their views. Instead, LO believes that action should be stepped up when driving under the influence of drugs and cannot recommend the proposal, also because it would lead to costs for police and prosecution authorities that should have been spent on completely different things. This view is also shared by the police, and the Police Union clearly states that with the resources available today, it seems difficult to support the amendment. The sum of these recordings means that we should ask ourselves some questions, including:What's the problem? If the problem is that we have a lot of traffic accidents, we should put in place measures to help reduce traffic accidents. And this is not the right thing to do. Using resources to take drug-affected drivers or drivers who run high-promille will produce much better results. Secondly, we should ask ourselves if it is right to go to a level that is significantly lower than the level at which the EU is going to go – 0.5. Of course, there is the freedom of individual countries to choose a level different from that recommended by the EU, but one of the objectives of legislative and regulatory harmonisation is, for example, that of: the ability of a driver to drive through several European countries and have similar legislation. In conclusion, I would like to say that in the light of recent events in the justice sector – I am thinking about the development of crime, I am thinking about the development of violence, I am thinking that every single day we watch and listen to TV that police and county officials don't think they have enough resources to get out of the way of threats, violence, where children are exposed and where others are exposed – we are now going to use time, forces and police resources to introduce a pro-milleline where every enforcement will be at the expense of others and far more central tasks for police and prosecution. And even if we just look at road safety in isolation and do not interfere with other police tasks, the effect is much less by putting resources in here than by using a limited number of police and prosecution resources on the group that is really dangerous – those who run high-promille, or those who run in a drug-affected state. This is a step in the wrong direction. I think it'll help weaken people's perception that we're actually dealing with serious things in this house. We're not achieving anything, and in reality, we're weakening the police's ability to take on much more important tasks. I would therefore recommend that the Right-wing Representatives vote against the whole of the proposed legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e798	Norway was the first country in the world to introduce a fixed limit on blood alcohol when driving a car. It's been 64 years since the law was passed here in Stortinget. In retrospect, we see how far forward this bill was. At that time, the car was not universal as it is today. It was a sensation when it fell a car after the roads, but just as fully did the time politicians realize that there was a need for strict laws in this area. Today the car is all-round, we have a completely different traffic picture. Cars are faster to run, and traffic cannot be compared. In other words, there's good reason to look at whether today's prom law is good enough. As I said, if we take into account today's traffic development and that the car is a natural vehicle for everyone, there is good enough reason to see if there is a basis for changing the rules on driving a car in a rush. It is on this background that you need to consider today's legislative proposal to change the law. We have a law that tells us that we do not allow promille in driving a car, and then we also have to have a code that reflects the goal we have seen. Future legislation must ensure that accidents where alcohol may be responsible are reduced. We all agree that alcohol and driving cannot be defended, and we are well aware that there is great darkness when it comes to driving in drug-induced conditions. We also agree that the highest-promille-promilles are dangerous. But today's per million bill actually gives us the opportunity to wonder how much you can drink. Today's law may be perceived as giving a signal that it is allowed to drink a bit. How much is a bit difficult to say. Someone thinks that it can take a very long time, that it is up to what the individual thinks he is tolerating. It has been established that runtime properties and response capabilities in surprising and critical situations are reduced at low-promille, thus running with a promille is a risk factor. In Sweden, where they have already introduced a per million limit of 0.2, the result is that there is now much less chance of running at low-promille. I would like to mention here that a number of the hearing authorities that have made a comment have expressed a positive opinion about the change in the per million limit. And I would strongly oppose that we will reduce the limit to 0.2 based on a moral responsibility, as the case-speaker here said, in relation to abstinence policy objectives. That is what we do to ensure that road users are more secure. When you set the percent limit, you will no longer be able to make room for a calculated alcohol intake. When the per mille limit is reduced, the authorities indicate the principle that alcohol and driving are not compatible. The legislative assembly must have this in mind, and we must therefore design the law so that there is logic in what we say, and what we mean. We're going out strong and we're saying that car and alcohol don't belong together. This means that we have to take the consequences of it, even when we design the legislation in relation to the result we want. Today’s amendment to the Road Traffic Act is such a measure – an important adjustment to the signals the authorities will have to be very clear, that driving and alcohol are not compatible. The Labour Party already signaled this in Norwegian road and road traffic plans for 1998-2007, which was presented by the government of Jagland. The center part wanted a 0.0-limit. The working party and SV support the proposal for a 0,2 limit. The Bondevik government has proposed to amend the Road Traffic Act, and the government of Stoltenberg has chosen to join it. The changes will lead to a cure for those currently running with proven per mille between 0.2 and 0.5. There are many who are afraid that there could be great variations in blood - to - air suffocation tests at low doses. In order to capture such deviations, a security deduction has been made due to any system deviations. A legal security deduction has also been introduced. This will ensure that no one can be judged innocent for driving a car in a state of rush. Today, however, we also see that those who are under influence are often drug addicts, such as drugs and other drugs. These are hard to get. This is outrageous in relation to road safety. Anti-corrosives should in any case not be combined with driving a car. It is important to assess measures that can detect these drivers and be closely similar to those that have been involved in alcohol abuse. Today we find that more and more people are using stimulants, which are also running a car. All of these are also running with reduced response capability. Strengthening the regulatory framework for this group will be a good signal in many ways. With today's development, it is an important signal that no stimulants should be used when driving a car. I am therefore pleased that there is a co-conspirator's committee asking the Government to come back with tougher measures for drivers who are affected by such drugs. A tightening of the Road Traffic Act in this area will also be a good signal that it is not only in traffic that such a stoppage is important. Many professions that require rapid response and proper assessment may also focus on such enhancement. I have no doubt that in today's society and in the future it will be more important and important to react quickly and correctly. With the technological developments we have today, it is therefore becoming increasingly important to be free both in traffic and in work. It is also clear that most European countries regard this as important, and therefore it is up to each EU country to lay down its own laws in this area. There is a clear signal that, in such matters, it is important that there is clarity in the nature of the penalty and that violations of the law can lead to fines or penalties. For the Labour Party, it is important, as I said, that we have a law that gives a clear signal. In this case, it would be said that it is not possible to combine alcohol or other drugs with driving — important signals to everyone, not least to our children and our youth. With the traffic image that we're seeing, it's important that the authorities give a brilliant signal that this can't be combined. I am therefore pleased that there is a joint committee that asks the Government to come back with measures that will ensure that we have a clear piece of legislation also in areas where drugs other than alcohol are being used to become the drug. Today's amendment to the Road Traffic Act will give an important signal to everyone that the authorities do not accept that people are running a car. As I said, there were forward-looking colleagues here on the Stortinget 64 years ago, but I consider today's proposal for change as just as far ahead. It is important to signal what is not allowed in a society, and especially when it comes to preventing and safe people from accidents that can be prevented. It's such a decision we're today securing multiples.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e826	The representative Nistad highlighted the historical perspective that Norway, as one of the first countries in the world, introduced a per million limit in 1936. That's right. You set a per million limit of 0.5, and maybe you could keep going, if there was any historical perspective in this. That's not the case. The Workers' Party will go the opposite way, and the only ones in the hearing bodies that actually support the views of the Workers' Party are the Automobiles' Association. The per mille limit is in most countries in our cultural circle of 0.5, 0.8 or 1. In several European countries, harmonisation of legislation is being achieved by 0.5 per million. In Norway, we should not go the other way. Sweden is in a special position by reducing the per million limit to 0.2 in 1990, i.e. an approximate zero limit. The Christian People's Party, with the help of a drag from the Workers' Party, will also put Norway in this special position, even if one had to do it with open eyes. In this case, everything more than 0,2 per mille must simply be described in the law as a driving drunk. Despite a number of facts that exist for us as decision-makers, a majority lands on a border that would threaten the legal security of drivers, which I believe the representative Nistad does not place sufficient emphasis on. Among other things, the number of convicted per mille drivers in recent years has actually been decreasing. The figures also include drivers convicted of other drugs, which are estimated to be 20-30 pst. It is a strong caution that the majority are drug-affected drivers and that they are increasing. There are no fixed limit values to be adhered to here, but it must be based on an assessment of the influence of the driver. For this category no amendments have been proposed at all, except that they are mentioned in a comitology note. In the vast majority of accidents related to alcohol, there are high levels of influence. It's actually not about 0.5 per million, but for drivers with more than 1.5 per million, the risk increases dramatically as the impact develops. The real drunks who have this kind of pro-mille are actually rare in traffic, but it's those who dominate the fatal accidents. Figures from the hearings show that the accident risk is not reduced by adjusting the current limit to 0,2 per mille. In Nordic countries other than Sweden, at a much higher alcohol limit, far fewer road accidents can be detected in total — a figure that also includes accidents related directly to alcohol. One of the most recent studies relating to so-called low impact limits has been carried out by a German company named Krüger in 1995. These studies give the amazing result that the risk of accidents appears to decrease not at 0 per mill but at 0,4 per mille. It seems that most people get a tightened driving pattern around this pro-mille limit. Experience does not, in the view of the Progress Party, provide any basis for drawing conclusions as to the effects of the legislative changes proposed by the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party respectively. It's clear that these parties want to do everything they have to disapprove, criminally. To extend a criminal threat to new groups, there should be reasonable certainty that the criminal threat is effective and that the benefit is proportionate to the effort made. What's certain is that the Workers' Party is involved in tying the police for additional funds. When we know that the Workers' Party is also not the first to grant funds to the police, it makes the matter even worse for the law enforcement authority altogether. A per-million reduction will mean an increase in the use of resources for the acquisition of appliances, more time for control and for the execution of criminal cases in already severely tried courts. All skilled competences and research are not at all estimated by batches that are more involved in abstinence than by real road safety measures. In fact, driving in a drug-affected condition is the greatest accident factor compared to per million driving. In the opinion of the Progress Party, a per-mile limit of 0,2 cannot be supported and defended when it is not possible to demonstrate that such a limit would reduce the risk of road accidents. In my opinion, it should be in the interest of everyone in the national Parliament to promote legislative proposals that are correct and sensible, when they have such a great impact on living and freedom of action as in this case. The country can get a significant number of pro-mille drivers that the population does not understand why it should be punished. When such a heavy body as the State juridical institute believes there are significant uncertainties at the lower level of the pro-mille limit, while at the same time questioning the usefulness, it would be thought that such a symbolic policy would most likely suffer defeat in the Storting. It doesn't look like it's happening here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e847	Norway has been a leading country in road safety for a number of years. We have comprehensive legislation, effective controls and focus on awareness-raising. This has produced results. Norway is one of the countries with the safest traffic. But in recent years, the numbers of people killed and injured in traffic have increased, and we see a alarming trend, not least because it seems that young drivers are at the highest risk. The Bondevik government launched the 0-Vision as a basis for road safety work – a vision that no one should be killed or harmed for life in traffic. To follow up on such a vision, comprehensive action is needed. A lowering of the promille limit is, in the Christian People's Party's opinion, a step in the right direction. I noticed the representative Kristin Krohn Devold's statement that there is a risk of driving with alcohol in the blood. Especially more than 0.5 per million, but a risk also less than 0.5 per million, according to the representative. She also refers to the Riksadvokat’s statements that this could potentially impair road safety due to a lack of support for the population, which would then undermine the law. In fact, I think most people agree that alcohol and driving do not belong together. Already in 1936, a fixed per-mile limit was introduced in Norway, and it was set at 0.5. Of course, it was before you knew as much as we know today about how alcohol affects attention and reaction ability. A limit of exactly 0.5 per million appears to be quite random today, except that 0.5 is a round number. The proposition and the committee setting have a figure showing the risk of personal injury at different per thousand levels in relation to the risk to a sober driver. The figure shows that the risk of accidents increases steadily with increasing pro-mille, with no marked increase just at 0,5 millilitres. For the Christian People's Party, there are three good reasons to support the proposal on the lowered per mille limit: firstly, the proposal is based on the principle that alcohol and driving do not belong together. The Christian People's Party believes that this principle should be followed in practice, and our primary position is therefore that we should have a 0-limit. But such a limit is not for the political majority. Of course, we fully support the bill from the Bondevik administration. The proposal is also a follow-up to Norwegian road and road traffic plans for 1998-2007 promoted by the government of Jagland. The next good reason for introducing a 0,2-limit is that we thus mitigate the risk of driving with a pro-mille between 0,2 and 0,5. It has been scientifically demonstrated that driving skills and reaction skills in surprising and critical situations are already reduced at low per mille and therefore such per mille constitute a risk factor in traffic. Traffic safety is important. As I said, Norway has been a leading country in road safety. We cannot now stop and wait for the worst boys in the class, as the Right Party and the Advance Party put up in relation to the EU countries. On the contrary, we have to bet offensively, and see what the best student does, namely Sweden, which has reduced the per million limit, and which has reaped a road safety gain from it. A third effect of lowering the per million limit is that we're avoiding a speculation in the 0.5 limit. Such speculation is so common that it has even become a separate concept of the ‘driving pill’. Some of those who have speculated in this limit have ended up running with a prom of well over 0.5. Avoiding this kind of per mill drive is probably one of the reasons for the positive effects we have seen of lowering the per million limit in Sweden. A survey from Sweden shows that after the amendment to the law it is more than three times more common for a driver to stop driving because he thinks he has drunk too much, than before the amendment to the law. This effect is one of the policies of the law enforcement agencies that also emerge as positive in the bill. And this is an effect we need if we're to succeed in realizing the 0 vision. More and more of those who drive an affected car are affected by drugs other than alcohol. At the same time, we know that the use of respiratory measures, which are very effective in detecting alcohol-induced driving, does not reveal the impact of other substances. I would therefore like to stress the importance of the Government considering measures that could lead to increased efforts to identify drivers affected by other substances, as a unanimous committee now asks.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e866	Every year about 300 people are killed and about 12 000 people are injured as a result of road traffic accidents. This leads to a huge amount of grief and rest, and it's a serious social problem. It is therefore important for the Government to assess both the cause of the accidents, what can be done to avert them, and what can be done to reduce the consequences if the accident is first out. The causes of road traffic accidents are many and complex. Nevertheless, there is no doubt that much attention needs to be paid to the driver in order to change the accident figures. With increasing traffic and increasingly complex traffic patterns, it is essential that road users are able to cope with the challenges involved. In this context, it is essential that the interaction between road users is predictable to the greatest extent possible, i.e.: compliance with the applicable Code of Conduct and the absence of impairment of the sensory system. There is a general consensus that drug-induced driving is a serious road safety problem. Studies indicate that every day between 10000 and 15000 journeys are carried by motor vehicles where the driver is affected by alcohol or another substance. In the case of alcohol, the extent of the problem is made apparent, among others. through a large number of injuries and deaths caused by accidents involving per mille drivers. For example, it is estimated that about 25 pst. of all road fatalities occurring after accidents involving at least one alcohol affectant and in 7-10 pst. of the accidents that cause personal injury, a pro-mille driver is involved. This clearly shows that alcohol and driving can literally be a life-threatening combination. These accidents are primarily related to high-promille driving. However, we know that alcohol weakens the senses in different ways already at low per million levels. The vision is weakened, including: because it takes longer to get the image on the Internet sharp, eye movements become less effective, and night vision and vision are reduced. The ability to receive and process information is weakened and the driver becomes less coordinated. The coordination capacity is reduced from 0,1 per mille. Knowing how the sensory device, which is essential in relation to the driving task, is affected by even small amounts of alcohol, there is reason to worry that many people seem to wonder about drinking tightest up to the current 0.5 limit before driving a car. On such a background, with high accident rates related to drug-related driving, an estimated large amount of pro-mille driving in general and the knowledge of how alcohol can affect driving skills, the main point of the Government’s proposal is to highlight even more strongly that alcohol and driving do not belong together — in any case. Although there is currently no evidence that lowering the per million limit will have a significant impact on the accidents, we will be living up to the speculation in the 0.5 limit. This can be done by changing the limit when a driver is in any case considered to be affected by the main provision of Section 22 of the Road Traffic Act, which reads: ‘No one must drive or attempt to drive when affected by alcohol or by any other intoxicating or stunning agent.’ [[not edru]] The signal effect of a decrease from 0.5 to 0.2 is intended to contribute to a change in attitude towards alcohol and driving, so that this combination becomes socially unacceptable to an even greater extent than at present. As previous speakers have pointed out, our current per million legislation dates mainly from 1936, and it has been operating for a relatively long time with its severe reactions in the form of high fines, prison sentences and withdrawal of driving licences. It must be assumed that legislation has been an important means of preventing pro-mille driving in general. The justification for the introduction in time of the applicable limit of 0,5 per million was linked to the need for clarification in relation to the use of the terms ‘beruset’ and ‘Impact’ respectively by the motor vehicle law. A number of changes to the per mille legislation have been made subsequently, in particular after the introduction of the Road Traffic Act in 1965. This has mainly been changes to the provisions on the measurement of penalties, the withdrawal of driving licences, etc. The limit for when a driver is in any case considered to be affected by alcohol has remained unchanged since 1936 despite the dramatic changes that have taken place in road traffic over the next 65 years and the associated increased requirements that must be imposed on drivers. The government sees the proposal to lower the per million limit as a natural consequence of this development. I am pleased with the agreement that has been given to the proposal at committee reading. With regard to the comments from the Party of Advances and the Right on the basis of the proposal, I find these individually factual and relevant. The arguments put forward have also been the basis for the Ministry's assessments and work on the legislative proposal, as is clear from the proposition. It is correct that there is uncertainty in demonstrating the road safety effect of lowering the per mille limit, and there is also some measurement uncertainty in the use of breath samples in the low per mille area. However, the arguments take little account of the overall objective of reducing the per mille limit, namely to show strongly that alcohol and driving do not belong together. And when I hear the comments given here today, that's exactly what I'm responding to, that you're actually going the opposite way and saying that it should be allowed to take a certain amount of alcohol when you drive a car. With regard to the comments on the uncertainty related to the use of breath tests, I would like to make it clear that precisely safety has been a leading principle in the setting of breath limit values relative to criminality. Of course, the criterion for the work has been that no one should be judged on the basis of a breath test if they would be released after a blood test. As indicated in the Chapter of the Proposition. 6, safety margins have therefore been introduced to be used for the individual measurement. This will take into account the need for adequate safety in breath tests. It is noted that both Denmark and Finland have a 0.5 limit and that harmonisation of this can be countered in the EU as well. To this I would point out that Sweden, as you know, lowered its limit to 0.2 in 1990, and that Nordic countries, often headed by Norway and Sweden, have been leading road safety in Europe for a long time. As with a number of other road safety measures, there should therefore be no reason, in my opinion, for the per million limit to vary too strongly to the level per million. Today, there are some other countries in Europe. I have also taken note of the views expressed in the consultation round on the drafting of the proposed provisions. To this end, it should be noted that the Ministry, as indicated in the proposal, joins the intention behind the proposal of the national lawyer, namely a general simplification of the pro-mille provisions. The proposal will be part of further work on the formulation of the most appropriate legislation in this area. I would like to draw your attention to the comments from the Right and the Progress Party on Penalty Measurement that, for the per mille area from 0.2 to 0.5, exemptions have just been made from the general rules on sanctions, both in terms of the use of prison sentences, the measurement of fines and the withdrawal of driving licences, so that greater emphasis is placed on whether driving has given rise to danger, the size of the promill, etc. I have also noted the Committee's comments on driving where the driver is affected by drugs other than alcohol. The Ministry will continue to work on this issue, cf. in addition, the 1999 State Budget report and, in line with the Committee's recommendation on an appropriate occasion, will come back to the United Kingdom with an assessment of the measures in question in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e933	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e936	I'm going to try to make it short, but I needed a clarification after hearing the comments from the representative Kofoed-Larsen, because it was said that I had admitted that there was an increased risk of having a promille of between 0.2 and 0.5. What I said in my post was on the contrary that it is difficult to claim that there is ‘scientific or empirical evidence that an alcohol influence in the range of 0.2-0.4 affects the ability to drive to such an extent that it represents some increase in road safety risks’, and that is the verbatim quote from the Riksadvokat’s hearing opinion, to which I fully agree. Once you get into this with risk, you could also have drawn out the two studies that Professor Andenæs mentions in his chronicle, that is, a study from America and a study from Germany, which, on the contrary, proves strangely that the risk of accidents seems to decrease from 0 to 0.4 per million. Now there may be many reasons for this – it may be that someone has got the nerves better under control, or it may be that people are driving more carefully – but at least it is not an example that there is evidence of an accident risk increase in the lowpromille area. Then I would like to add that I am pleased that the Council of State says that there are both factual and relevant arguments that emerge in the minority's position. It should be lacking, because what we say in the minority's position is based on hearing opinions from the country's leading legal authorities, and it is probably shared by almost half of the Workers' Party's largest group. In any event, it is reassuring to hear that the Council of State considers this to be reasonable and relevant. Finally, I would like to dwell on what both the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party have been about, namely that it is good that we have a joint statement that we should have increased efforts to combat drug-affected driving and high-promille driving. It was a proposal that the right-hand side originally added as an alternative to setting the limit down to 0.2. So far, neither the Workers' Party nor the Christian People's Party have excelled in proposing increases in the police budget. It's the police who are going to enforce both of these areas, and it doesn't help with kind words, if the result is half the effort in both areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e947	I would also like to give the hearing bodies a little visit. One of these has been the Landsorganisation, i.e. LO, and the Workers' Party knows this organization very well. LO says clearly that they don't want to go in for a proposal to reduce the per million limit from 0.5 to 0.2, because they believe that such a low per million limit will lead to people not knowing if they're too full to drive. In the hearing's reply to the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Transport states: ‘We point to the legal certainty element in people’s inability to determine whether they have pro-mille.’ Furthermore, the LO believes that there is no evidence that driving with a prom between the proposed 0,2 and the current 0,5 will go beyond the skills behind the steering wheel so that a reduction will lead to fewer accidents. At the same time, LO points out that there does not appear to be any evidence of reduced driving skills at such a low pro-mille that a reduction would result in a significant impact on accident statistics. At the same time, you say that you don't want to be in the same booth as Sweden, and that you don't want to be among the strictest countries in Europe or, for that matter, in the world. So here we'll probably get a solid proof that it's not just LO members, it's also LO as an organization, that shares the view of the Progress Party in this case, which they probably do in many other areas. I also ask myself what this comes from: can it be that this is common sense?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e960	It is clear from the proposition that opinions have been shared in the hearing with all possible clarity. It is clear from Chapter 7, when you read this properly, that there have even been shared views in the Landsorganisation, because an organisation that has supported the bill is Norwegian Transport Workers' Association. I said – and I would like to clarify it in relation to Krohn Devold’s articles – that the objections are individual and relevant. But what was my main point was that from the Right and the Advance Party, too little emphasis is placed on the whole and the attitudes that a reduction in the per million limit implies, and in the middle of this, that one can then end a speculation in the border. We want to establish that alcohol and driving don't belong together, and we'll do better by marking a limit where it can't be combined at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e967	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 536]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e981	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 538]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e995	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the working party 10 minutes and the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there should be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1002	A large majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposal for changes to the Game Law. The background to the amendments to Sections 12 and 14 of the Game Act is the desire to ensure a more differentiated and flexible management of the four major predatory species, not least in view of the fact that agriculture and domestic practices can be managed in a better way than they do today. Today's §12 is very unclear in relation to the access to clean preventative killing of predators. So now we're going to go in for a change in the rule, so it clearly gives access to trap predators as part of preventing damage. The new rule is based on differentiated administrative practices with core areas and administrative areas. In these areas, strict protection is maintained with restrictive rules for the collection of pests. Outside these areas, there is a more liberal setting up than current practice. In this way, the active prevention of the establishment of predatory game in areas of major conflict can be prevented. The increase in the stock of large predators and especially wolves means that we can now change practices and practice a much more flexible management than before. Until a few years ago, the wolf was directly threatened with extinction. The large increase in family groups over the last two to three years has allowed authorities to and should act more actively. At the same time, I would like to stress that the administration must ensure that we meet the goal of viable populations of both bear, yerv and wolf. This means that predators are subject to strict protection in the core areas. The working party is of the opinion that the differentiated management is the most appropriate instrument for achieving the target of viable populations of all four major predatory species in Norway, with a view to the objective of enabling active outreach activity while ensuring the stock of predatory game. By concentrating the efforts of prevention measures on key habitats for predatory game, we can achieve a greater impact on the survival of populations than by disseminating the measures. The amendments to Section 12 make our constitutional practices more similar to those of the other countries that have committed themselves under the Berne Convention. We believe that the changes are in line with the derogations provided for in Article 9 of the Berne Convention, the aim of which is to avert damage to domestic animals. The government proposes to transfer responsibility for the game management to the municipalities. This is joined by an overall committee. We agree that it is important to have a stronger local anchoring of the game management. The changes will strengthen the responsibilities and role of municipalities and rightholders. Municipalities will also be responsible for the transfer of these instruments for the management of game and for the collection of game fees and funds. In three budgetary positions, the Committee asked the Ministry of the Environment to introduce arrears payment of the collection fees. A unanimous committee requires such a system to be established at the same time as the responsibility is transferred to each municipality. The new and important changes to the game law have been widely welcomed in the Committee. I believe that these legislative changes will be an important measure to mitigate the conflict in the case of predators and buffaloes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1028	The amendments to the game law that we are dealing with today seem to us to be essentially sensible steps in the right direction. We are therefore pleased that there is a large majority in the Committee who have joined the amendments. The reasons for the changes are the need to adapt the legislation to the increasing populations of the four major predatory species and the challenges we have been facing as a result, as has the representative Gjul. We think, among other things: that it makes sense for a person to have a stronger local anchoring of the game management with stronger legal and economic instruments at the local level, as the changes involve the transfer of responsibilities and instruments to the municipalities. In relation to the access to pure preventative killing in Section 12, where we had previously very unclear provisions, we now have a much better precision in place than before. We also clearly believe that this means far more liberal access to litter outside the central areas of wildlife than today's practice. However, we would like to make it clear that the killing should be carried out in the most efficient manner possible when the first authorisation is granted. It is therefore essential that the necessary and effective means are used, so that we get to kill quickly and humanely and avoid hunting and attempted killing over a long period of time. We also believe that the State should take greater financial responsibility for the cost of pest infestation, where the killing is due to state predatory policies. We find it clearly unfortunate that this should be covered by the victim. However, we believe that the legislative changes are essentially in the right direction, and the Progress Party will therefore support the proposed changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1041	The proposed amendments to the wild law, which are now fully endorsed, are important in order to contribute to more efficient and targeted predator management. As is well known, the basic objective of Norwegian predator management is to ensure viable populations of the four major predatory species in Norway, while maintaining active farming with the possibility to allow buffing and tamrein to exploit grazing resources in the countryside. In order to achieve this, the Christian People's Party supports the proposal for a differentiated management, i.e. that in demarcated areas there should be no provision for reproducible populations of large predators, and that predatory populations in these areas should be managed primarily through the use of aggravation permits and stock-regulating measures such as licence hunting and quota-free hunting. In specific core areas and management zones for large predators, preventive conversion measures shall be implemented to limit damage to buff and tamrein. The objective of viable populations of bears, wolves and yorks in South Norway shall primarily be achieved through management within core areas or defined management zones. Today's design of Section 12 of the Game Act is unclear in relation to the possibilities of preventative killing. The Christian People's Party therefore also supports the amendment of Section 12 of the Wilderness Act with a view to adapting the killing regulations for predatory game that does damage. The criteria for killing shall be different for different areas. This change provides a basis for more liberal freedom of killing than at present in certain areas. These are areas outside core areas or in so-called administrative zones. The level of conflict between protection interests and industrial interests in predatory areas has long been very high. For understandable reasons, many react to some severe losses of domestic animals with the pressures they cause, both economically and emotionally. At the same time, it is important to underline the dependence of many districts on this type of industry. They are an important prerequisite for settlement in District Norway. A predatory policy that can take account of different cross-cutting interests with as low a level of conflict as possible must therefore remain an overall objective. The changes now proposed in the wild law are a continuation of the aims and intentions of the previous government for predatory policies. While no comprehensive predatory debate is envisaged in this context, Odelstinget is currently making important adjustments to some paragraphs which can help to reduce the level of conflict and to counteract extensive adverse effects on buffalo and property, while adding to viable predatory populations in Norway. Although there is no mention of a major new predatory debate during today’s treatment, it is hardly the last time that this matter is discussed in some form of bulking and bulging. The Christian People's Party supports the majority position as it exists on the basis of Ot. pp. No 37 for 1999-2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1058	The government’s decision to allow wolves in new areas of the country, more specifically in areas of establishment including East Agder, Telemark, Vestfold, Østfold, Oslo and parts of Buskerud, Akershus and Hedmark, has naturally been met with reactions. Robbery policy is and is disputed, and it is no less controversial after this was announced by the Government. However, we will come back to this matter when the trial procedure has been completed and the consultation round has been completed. A leading point in the debate is the question of the size of populations of predatory game species to be realistically established in Norway, assessed against the interests of grazing and other outreach industries. The question can be asked in the light of the peculiarity of the Norwegian pattern of residence in Europe. In view of as well settlement as predators, we have small margins to go on in Norway if we wish to avoid an unacceptable level of conflict. It can therefore be very difficult in practice to achieve balanced predatory management, as is now the case. But as I said, this discussion will come too far back at a later point in time. Today's theme is changing the game law, and at that point, broad political consensus can now be recorded. I think that is a good sign in time, and the Central Party welcomes the changes. A large majority of the committee unreservedly writes that the amendment to Section 12 will give a far more liberal opportunity to trap predators than has previously been the case. The majority also say in clear text that killing predators is not the same as hunting, and it is clarified that killing according to Section 12 of the Wildlife Act is to be carried out quickly. Furthermore, it should be noted that rules may be laid down hereafter on the culling of specified game species which significantly reduce the reproduction of other species. Yes, these are new tones, and they're most relevant. There may be grounds for recalling the unclear situation that occurred when it was decided to trap the radio-labelled wolf Fenre. It must be established that the proposed amended legal text will prevent such episodes from occurring again. In isolation, the law will be met with satisfaction in many parts of the country. When I use the words ‘insulatedly’ here, it is of course because the new legislative initiative can be viewed with a certain degree of justice as an attempt to sue the pill. It is understood that the more efficient killing of predators is seen in the context of the proposal to provide the four large predatory species with a sanctuary in many and large areas of Norwegian wilderness, where people live and live. This reasoning cannot be completely rejected by either of us. That is why I think it is necessary to make it clear that, in particular, a welcome change to the game law will not defy the consequences of what is now reflected in the government's predatory policy. The point here is that it's going to be easier to trap predators outside the majority that name as core areas or administrative zones, but it says that the more and larger these areas are, the more we'll experience acute conflicts. The central party supports the amendment of the law and thus also the underlying idea of differentiated management. But the most important thing for us is that we get a predatory game management that in both the short and long term provides the necessary security for both humans and animals. Finally, a majority, including the Centre Party, believe that differentiated management is the most appropriate instrument to meet the objective of viable populations that the four major predatory species in Norway. For the sake of order, I would like to point out that the Central Party believes that the starting point for the establishment of viable populations is the Southern Scandinavian region, and that in this context Norway will be prepared to take part in the commitments relating to the four major predatory species, in line with the provisions of the Berne Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1073	Norway has a responsibility to follow up international agreements, and the Berne Convention on Biological Diversity is such an agreement. Nevertheless, SV does not believe that the protection of biological deficiency is something we should comply with only because an international agreement obliges us to do so. Protecting all the different species present in Norwegian nature is necessary in order to have a viable environment in the future. SV also recognises that outreach is an important industry both for the environment and for maintaining rural settlements. It is therefore important to give good conditions for this industry. SV agrees with the idea that it may be easier to trap predators outside the nuclear sites than inside, and therefore supports the principle of differentiated management. But we don't agree with the multiples on a couple of points. Firstly, I think that differentiated management must be linked to actual damage done. The bill of the majority, which states that one shall grant permission for the killing of predators ‘to prevent damage to buffalo or domestic animals’, defines predators outside the core area as ‘wild game’ and opens up a practice contrary to our international obligations under the Berne Convention. Therefore, SV proposes that permission for killing be granted only in order to prevent further damage. Secondly, it is important for SV that alternatives to killing have to be tested, as the Berne Convention also requires. Precautionary measures, such as supervision, guessing, dog use, fencing, the transfer of sheep to alternative grazing areas, etc., need to be carefully assessed so that killing can only take place when there are no other options. In Abruzzo, Italy, there is a great deal to be done. Here, over many years, a systematic effort has been made to enable predators, buffaloes and people to function together. This has not only given positive results for both industry and predators, but it has also given the area concerned a bloom in terms of migration. SV therefore suggests that we take advantage of experience from such projects and implement similar research projects in predatory areas in Norway. This will provide us with new knowledge of predatory issues and at the same time be an exciting district effort, especially for young people. There is also a problem associated with the definition of nuclear energy. It is a fact that, in some cases, nuclear sites have been defined in such a way that the predator stock for which they are intended is as much outside the core area as within it. This makes the system of differentiated management more problematic. SV is busy because it must be possible to adjust kernel limits if necessary. Today, the predatory question is produced unilaterally as a conflict between the protection of biological deficiency and the commercial interests of farmers in predatory areas. It doesn't necessarily have to be like that. The pilot project of the type SV suggests will be able to help overcome this conflict.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1086	The President will only ask Ingrid Fiska if she addresses the suggestions from SV included in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1089	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1096	It is confirmed. Ingrid Fiskaa has then addressed the proposals from SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1099	I register that the government is represented by the Minister of Transport, assuming that it is related to the fact that the NSB has played a certain role in regulating the wolf population. The proposed changes in the game law stem from the need for more efficient, flexible game management with increased local anchoring. The amendments are in line with the proposals of the previous government, and the Left supports the proposals. It's clear that we're going to maintain viable strains of the big predators. We're also going to have an agricultural farm where land is used for grazing bofe and tamrein. We know that Norway uses pasture to a greater extent than other European countries. That's why we need flexible management to achieve both objectives. We know that we've gotten an increased amount of the big predators in recent years, but the amount of predators is still small, the populations are few, and we still don't have enough knowledge of what 'viable strains' mean. Therefore, the most endangered species still need to be perceived as threatened and exposed to unpredictable population declines, particularly in the long-term and genetic perspective. It should remain open for predators to use parts of the country other than the core regions, in particular as long as the level of injury is minimal and the same areas are not actively used for agricultural purposes. Today's proposed amendment to Section 12 with regard to the killing of predatory game in order to prevent damage must also lead to restrictive practices in the future, especially in defined core areas and specific management zones. The left sees it as positive that the management of the exploitable wildlife resources gets a stronger local anchor. I would like to stress that increased responsibility also imposes greater requirements on competence, so that a person gets a management based on knowledge of the stocks and respect for the obligations we have assumed in relation to, among other things. Berne Convention.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1115	I look at this change in the game law as positive. The fact that there is now a more differentiated management of the killing of predators is good. This means that when predatory game is inside the core area it becomes more difficult to trap, while outside it there is much more liberal access to litter. My starting point is that when a predator is legally determined to be killed, it should be done in the fastest and most humane way. I do not believe that this has been the practice until now. Section 14 opens up the use of catches that may be better than hunting. For example, globular hunting is difficult, and it should also be considered whether a snowmobile cannot be used, at least for outsourcing items, and that for example. fishing gear should be used more extensively in the future. It is also positive that the right to pursue wounded game is extended on other grounds. But what might be the most important change in the game law is that the municipalities now have a much greater responsibility. The municipality shall be given a financial responsibility for the collection of the culling charge and shall have the weight of the funds allocated to the county. This game fund, which is now being created, will be important in the municipal game management. I believe that the hunter's fee, or part of the hunter's fee, could have been transferred to the municipal game fund, but it may come later. As far as the remarks on the establishment of a professional hunter's corps are concerned, they have been mentioned in the budget earlier. I'm a little skeptical about the knowledge that exists in the countryside, being underestimated for the benefit of theoretically trained hunters. But it probably depends on what the committee puts in the word 'professional', because I believe many in the countryside will be disappointed if there came a bunch of wildly dressed uniforms and fashioned clothes and would teach old villagers how to kill the animals in the woods. As I said, the main impression of the changes is positive. What is important, however, is the matter that is not being debated today, and that is the proposal on the size of the core area, especially in relation to wolves. What's going to be outside, and what's going to be inside, becomes absolutely crucial. I would already say that dropping the wolf over Glomma and all the way down to Telemark and East-Agder is wrong in my opinion. But it will be a later debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1128	The president almost ventured, as an east fold, to take part in the debate he too, but should not.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1131	I'm not going to make any long speeches, but I'm just going to make a explanation of vote and say that Andersen's representative is going to vote with the majority in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1136	That was one explanation of vote. Are there any more explanations of vote? - It's not. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 548]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1146	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-6.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1152	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1442	For the first subparagraph, introductory phrase, an aberrant proposal, No. 4, from the Socialist Left Party: ‘The first paragraph of Section 130a is replaced by the following:In cases of infringement of the Criminal Code § 132a, 151a, 162 second or third paragraph, 192, 229 third penalty option, 231, 233, 266, 268 cf. § 267, § 317 cf. § 162 second or third paragraph or § 317 cf. § 268 cf. § 267 or in the case of infringements referred to in the third paragraph of Section 10-1 of the Alcohol Act; or in the event of an attempt to commit such a crime, the court may, upon application by the Advocate General, decide on an anonymous witness to police officers when it becomes known that the witness's identity may be in danger.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1678	In the case of Paragraph 284, the President will draw attention to a correction: the fifth sentence of the first paragraph is replaced by the following: ‘In the event of insult or of a witness under 18 years of age’, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1689	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1697	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1707	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, capital B is to be sent to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1713	During the debate, Mr L. Stang, on behalf of the Progress Party, put forward the proposals No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1788	Paragraph 12, second paragraph, second sentence, and third paragraph, a different proposal, paragraph 1, from the Progress Party: ‘In the Law of 15 November 1963 on the completion of the Nordic Court of Justice in criminal proceedings etc. It shall be amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1817	The other paragraph and the sentence of the paragraph are addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1949	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1957	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1963	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 and 2, by Kari Økland on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 3 and 4, from Tor Nymo on behalf of the Centre Party,
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1973	President, can I give you a brief explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1978	Kristin Halvorsen is given the floor for a brief explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1981	I'd like that. the SV’s large-scale group to vote in favour of the nomination of the Workers’ Party in the Committee, which is unlikely to have a majority in the Chamber, and a subsidiary vote in favour of proposal No. 1 and 2, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e1988	The President assumes that the members of the SV have taken note of this explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e2019	For Section 15, there are two different proposals. That is proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, and proposal No. Three, from the Center Party. The President will propose that the vote be taken first on proposal No. 3, from the Centre Party, then over the suspension and finally over proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party. – No objections have been raised, and that is what will be done. Proposal No. Three, from the Center Party, is taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 20 December 1996 No 106 on emptying fixtures is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e2042	It is then voted over section 15. The working party is behind the setting, and Kristin Halvorsen has announced that SV will also vote for this paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e2053	Proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law of 20 December 1996 No 106 on emptying fixtures is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e2089	The law's heading and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e2094	I'm against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e2101	The President assumes that in addition to the Bastisen, the Advance Party and the Right will also vote against. It's confirmed, so here's the Bastesen in good company. [[Laughter]] The voting boards showed that 59 representatives voted in favour of the title of the law and the law as a whole and 25 representatives voted against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 13.48.30]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e2110	President! I could not vote. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e2117	The President then records that the votes shall be 59 votes in favour of the title of the law and the law as a whole and 26 against. The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation. This leaves the proposal No. 2 and 4. Proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, says: ‘The Government requests the evaluation of Section 15 of the Landfill Act and its practical effect after 2 years from its entry into force. The results of the evaluation shall be submitted to the Stortinget as its own case.’.» Proposal No. Four, from the Center Party, it's like: «The Government requests the transitional arrangements for the gradual increase of the fixed fee over a period of 10 years in the case of agreements for the fastening of land to recreational homes concluded on or before 26 May 1983.» These proposals will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e2318	The party of progress and the Right has announced that they are against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e2328	The law's heading and the law as a whole. The President expects the Party of Advancement and the Right, as well as the representative of Bastesen, here too, to oppose it. – It is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e2340	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e2350	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e4222	The law's heading and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e4230	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e4236	During the debate, Mr Fiskaa, on behalf of the SV, put forward the proposals No. 1 and 2. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop a pilot project on prevention and research-based work in predatory areas, based, inter alia, on the experience from similar problem areas in other countries.’ Proposal No. 2 will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e4283	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 1, from SV: «Act No 29 May 1981 No 38 about the game [[Wild Law]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e4486	The law's heading and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e4494	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-06-lower.ana.ud720e4503	There is no record.
