ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e56	The representatives of Fridtjof Frank Gundersen, Finn Kristian Marthinsen, Laila Kaland and Odd Eriksen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Before dealing with the issues on today's map, the President will propose that the morning's meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e82	The size had a thorough discussion of the swallowing policy June 6th this year. The debate showed that there was broad agreement on the main features of Norwegian swallowing policy. For this reason, I would just like to make a few comments on the current proposal on the sage budget and on the Committee's position. In the draft budget, the Ministry has explained in a transparent and straightforward way how to enter. S. No 196 for 1999-2000 is now being followed up. In cooperation with stakeholders, intensive and systematic efforts are being made to put in place the necessary legislation and regulations in good time, so that elections can be held in the autumn of 2001 and Longyearbyen local government can be established at the next year’s turn of the year. The size also looks forward to the transmission of proposals for environmental laws for Svalbard and proposals for new protection areas. The budget itself is a sober budget. In addition to doubling the appropriations for the Svalbard Council, there are no significant changes. However, the Committee has considered it necessary to stress the need for a sound solution to the energy supply and district heating issues and that the costs of such a solution must be covered outside the current framework of Svalbard Societal Operation AS - SSD. I expect this to be arranged in good time before the SSD is transferred to Longyearbyen local government about approx. a year. Int. S. No In 196, a joint committee strongly supported the existing plans to establish Svalbard Research Park. We then meant – and still believe – that it is urgent to start this work so as not to lose initiative and enthusiasm. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous church, education and research committee in the Budget Centre. S. No 12 proposes to grant 2 million. kr for the planning and design of the research park, as there is a great need for progress in this matter. The university building is already in the tightest shape of the business that is now taking place. A physical collection of all the academic environments in Longyearbyen, the Svalbard Museum, the magazine for archaeological and cultural historical material and an information centre for Svalbard's nature and environment will undoubtedly provide significant synergies. As it now suggests, there is reason to believe that the construction of the research park could start in 2002. Appropriations for the coal industry and the Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kulkkompani, — SNSK — are not part of the budget we are discussing today. However, I would like to state that the comment in the vote that refers to the fact that no specific allocation has been proposed to the SNSK/Coal operation above the Ministry of Industry budget for 2001 is incorrect. For the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has in St. prp. No 1 Appendix No 7, which was submitted on 10 November, proposed that 61 million be allocated. SEK in grants to SNSK. The rationale is that the liquidity situation of the company has deteriorated significantly compared with previous estimates and that it is therefore necessary to grant operating grants in order to ensure the continuation of operations until the issue of permanent operations is addressed by the Size of Spring Session. This money was granted in Stortinget on 6 December. In addition, the Foreign Affairs Committee awaits the announced proposal from the Government and the resulting deliberation, which will clarify the issue of continued coal operations on Svalbard. The Government's proposals for appropriations for the Norwegian Polar Institute in the Ministry of the Environment budget are traditionally dealt with by the Foreign Affairs Committee. The Committee has rarely commented on the Government’s proposals. When the majority this year addresses the proposal for funding to the Norwegian Polar Institute, it is because the process of moving from Oslo to Tromsø is now finally completed, a new research station in New Ålesund is built and the reading station at Zeppelinfjellet is completed. In addition, considerable resources are invested in equipment and not least in building the skills of Tromsø and Svalbard. A formidable effort has been made. A total of between 400 and 500 million. kr has been invested in connection with the Norwegian Polar Institute during the 1990s. Finally, the time has come to reap the desired results of this initiative, results in the form of research that can provide increased knowledge and insight in key areas such as pollution and climate. The large investments have been made; now there has to be a good balance between funds for the operation of buildings, infrastructure and equipment on the one hand and research activities on the other. But what do we read from the budget? The research resources of the Polar Institute have been further reduced. A little at the top, you might say that the Polar Institute today has a number of competent researchers sitting in top-notch offices and in the environment with tip-top equipment and logistics, but they lack the money to get out of the offices, the money to do active research for. This was not meant when the Stortinget stepped up the stakes in the north in the early 1990s? This reality can be doubted, but when said, I will not encourage anyone to be stuck with their hands in captivity and hope that the situation improves by itself, on the contrary. It is the Polar Institute's heavy duty within the given framework to strike the most appropriate balance between operations and activities, between management and research, and between priority research efforts in Antarctica and the Arctic. And although there are many areas where it is difficult – albeit impossible – to provide external funding, it is necessary for the Polar Institute to be active in the search for research support from other institutions and organisations, from industry, the Norwegian Research Council and the EU. Today, the Department, the SFT, the Riksantikvaren, the Directorate of Nature Management and the Polar Institute are individually responsible for managing Svalbard in various areas. The question to be asked is whether the management tasks between the institutions are well and clearly distributed or whether overlaps and even conflicts of competence occur. In any case, I think it would be useful if the Minister for the Environment could review the division of tasks between the different institutions – duplication of work is poor use of funds. I feel convinced that such a review will also lead to the release of funds from management to research. In the case of the Polar Institute, the management task is mainly related to advice and the research shall provide the basis for the advisory task of the Institute vis-à-vis the authorities. This situation may need to be more clearly reflected and reflected in the internal priorities of the Polar Institute than today. With these comments, I recommend the setting of the Svalbard budget and proposals for allocation on the cap. 1471 and 4471, Norwegian Polar Institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e110	St.meld. No 9 for 1999-2000, on Svalbard, was presented a year ago. The Communication carried out a broad review of developments in the various areas of society since the last Svalbard General Report, which was promoted in 1985. Furthermore, targets, priorities and instruments that should apply to the further development of the archipelago were presented. The Communication stressed that the overall objectives of Norwegian svalbard policy must guide the development of the island group, such as: a consistent and firm enforcement of sovereignty proper compliance with the Svalbard Treaty and the enforcement of the Treaty on the conservation of tranquillity and stability in the area of the conservation of the area’s unique wilderness nature, maintaining Norwegian communities on the island group; These objectives have been set for a long time and have had broad political outreach. The size covered the notification on 6 June of this year. The size was linked to the objectives and instruments of swallowing policy and to the main challenges for the further development outlined in the Communication. In the future, the government will follow up the proposals made in the notification and the guidance given by the Stortinge. In this context, a number of issues relevant to the further development of the archipelago need to be addressed. The cases are covered by various departments and relate to key issues of Norwegian svalbard policy. I refer to the keyword as: the question of further Norwegian coal-fired development of the Norwegian communities on the island group, in particular the establishment of local democracy in Longyearbyen the establishment of Svalbard Research Park the establishment of new protected areas on Svalbard covering biologically productive areas on the island, including the relationship with existing industrial activities in these areas; The government will come back to these matters against Stortinget in turn and order. For the Ministry of Justice as the coordinating department of svalbard policy, it is important that developments at Svalbard are seen together and that the objectives of Norwegian svalbard policy are at the root of the political decisions taken. The Svalbard Treaty imposes restrictions on access to the collection of taxes and charges on Svalbard and on the use of these funds. This is the background to the creation of a separate svalbard budget promoted by the Ministry of Justice at the same time as the State budget. The svalbard budget has two main parts. Firstly, an overview is provided of the measures which the Government will promote under the budget chapters of the various departments. This provides the Storting with an annual review of government appropriations for swallowing purposes. For 2001, a net allocation of approx. Two hundred ninety million. kr for swallowing purposes above the State budget. Secondly, proposals for appropriations are being made for what can be called essentially the administration of Svalbard. The 2001 Svalbard budget has a total of well 94 million. kr. This is, to a large extent, an operating budget. The proposal provides for the continuation of the allocation of the budgets at approximately the same level as for the current year. However, it is proposed to double the grant to the Svalbard Council in order to allow the Council to prepare for the transition to increased local democracy, to be introduced from 1 January 2002. This is a process that was adopted through the treatment of the gross domestic product, and which will be returned to in the treatment of the 2002 State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e163	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1095]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e177	The President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes, and for other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each party group, and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e184	Framework area 4 has a net framework of approximately 15 billion kroner. Most of this is under programme area 03 International aid, with a budget of 12 billion kroner. DKK 2.4 billion. goes to the foreign administration in programme area 02. It is therefore not all the world's freedom of action within the agreed framework to make any redeployment and re-priorities in this programme area. However, some changes have been made, and I will come back to that. At the bottom of the budget line lies for the first government budget proposal as set out in St.prp. Section.1 Appendix No.6. The budgetary framework adopted is then based on the negotiated budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties. Thereafter, the Centre Parties and the Working Party of the Foreign Affairs Committee have agreed on some adjustments within the agreed framework. Right and SV present their own alternative budget proposals within the adopted framework. The Progress Party also has its own budgetary option. However, since their proposal deviates from the overall framework adopted, this proposal will not be contested separately. With regard to the government's draft budget, the Christian People's Party and the Centre parties are pleased that the Government confirms the goal of dedicating 1 pst. of GNI for international, ODA-approved assistance. With an ever-increasing GNI and a budgetary framework which must take the necessary account both of economic stability and of high priority tasks in domestic consumption, there must be a conscious commitment to prioritisation in order to achieve such an objective. I therefore think that the Minister for Development has done a good job to get the EUR 1.5 billion that was needed to keep the level of assistance at least at the same budget level as in 1999 and 2000. It deserves praise and recognition from the Council of State and the Government. That the level of assistance in 1999 was 0.91 p.m. at the end and will sink below 0,8 pst. in the accounts of the year, is another matter. But we're going to achieve the goal of 1 pst. by GNI, as the Government has committed itself to, the escalation must begin soon. That must be the next challenge. And I would like to congratulate the Council of State on the work that has probably already begun in preparation for the Government's budgetary conference in the New Year. There will be a majority in the Storting for such a escalation if the Government lays the groundwork for it. The Christian People's Party and the other central parties have had a common priority in their budgetary work with emphasis on international solidarity, peace and security, democracy and human rights as the fundamental values we wanted to shape the external budget. We believe that the budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party has ensured such a priority. At the same time, we need to follow-up through commitments and international cooperation to ensure fairer world trade and better protection of the global environment. We define this as the main task of Norwegian foreign policy. The central parties were taken into account in the budgetary conciliation so that the Government is now examining the establishment of a development fund. This fund could play an important role as a new instrument in the implementation of the phasing-out plan for aid, while also representing a more cohesive management of the large petroleum revenues currently available. I am pleased that the Minister for Development, in an interview with the newspaper Our Country on 29 November, is open to establish such a development fund. She points to something very important in the interview, namely that the sustained high oil price causes significant changes in trading conditions. While many developing countries are hit by the high oil price, Norway as an oil exporter greatly benefits at the high price level. Governments say to our country: ‘We therefore want to see whether we can participate in measures that compensate for some of the negative effects on the poorest countries.’ This is very positive. I hope that an investigation into the technical and practical issues related to such a fund will be carried out as soon as possible, so that the Council of State can present a proposal in its aid policy statement in May. It will then be possible to take the necessary decisions before the summer and establish the fund in the draft State budget for 2002. I would like the Council of State to comment on such a plan of progress. Within the agreed budgetary framework, the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party have negotiated some changes to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget. Cape. Item 154 71 Grants from non-governmental organisations increased by 25 million. kr, with corresponding cap reduction. Item 157, item 72. And a cap. 150, which relate to regional allocation for cooperation countries in Africa, has increased by 20 million. kr with corresponding cap reduction. 161 UN organisations. These amounts are relatively limited, but important anyway. We believe it is a strength that Norway is committed to a multi-channel interaction of assistance, such as multilateral organisations, state-to-state cooperation via NORAD, inter-governmental cooperation via non-governmental organisations and cooperation between companies and professional institutions in the north and south. We would like to stress that the various aid channels have different advantages that need to be exploited consciously in an overall southerly policy. In fact, here we are uncertain about the government's own priorities. There are still many positive statements from the Government on the importance and role of voluntary organisations in the aid work. At the same time, however, we believe that we can see an increasing tendency to prioritize multilateral organisations, in particular the United Nations system, at the expense of voluntary organisations, and would like the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Development to comment on this relationship. The Atlas Alliance coordinates assistance for disabled people in developing countries. Behind the Atlas alliance are several of the disabled people's organisations that have had an increasing problem in financing the prescribed proportion of 20 pst. The entire Committee understands the need to re-assess the proportion of the Atlas Alliance. A majority, all except SV, believes that this should be further discussed by the Stortinget at a later stage, but at the same time asks the Ministry to find a temporary arrangement for 2001 to ensure the continued operation of the Atlas Alliance. SV will propose that a half of the margin of 10 pst is already adopted. I can then see that the Atlas Alliance has, in any case, gained an impact on its views and wishes regarding the year 2001, but that the provision for the permanent system must be put into effect until the Stortinge is given the opportunity to discuss this in greater detail. This is a conclusion that I, for my part, am pleased with, and with which the Atlas Alliance will probably also be able to live. Finally, something about European research. An overall committee here points to the importance that research environments with different profiles and approaches, both traditional and long-term research and research and information activities, have a place within the budget framework. It is against this background that the unanimous agreement of the Committee on the continuation of its 5 million support for the European programme must be seen. kr also for next year. A common response from heavy and diverse research environments to this designation of European research resources has now come to a single body, namely the Europe programme. This reaction is understandable to me, but I think the only natural solution to this dilemma is to increase the position of research on Europe issues. It will also, as I see it, be the only natural solution based on Norway's strong desire to follow closely the development of Europe. There has also been a debate on the transfer of arrangements under NORAD to NORFUND. In this debate, there has been a concern that the small projects should get stuck, as NORFUND does not normally have a loan portfolio below half a million kroner. The Committee held its own hearings on this subject. We therefore find it satisfactory, on the basis of the assurances and clarifications given by the Council of State in its own letter, to be able to join the Government's proposal. With the framework provided by the majority, namely that poverty orientation should not be weakened and that there should not be an increase in the use of tied aid, we have confidence that this system will work. I would just like to stress, on behalf of my own and the Christian People's Party, that in terms of poverty orientation, it must apply to the poorest countries and not to the middle-income countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e219	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e222	The representative Steensnæs started his post by confirming the Christian People's Party's goal of reaching the aid in 1 pst. of GNI. At the same time, the Christian People's Party must be aware that a major problem for developing countries is that they are dependent on aid money rather than having their goods sold to countries like Norway. I found in Capital No. 17 for this year an interesting interview with Steensnæs. Among other things, he's going to be... at the end of this interview asked questions concerning the sale of more goods by developing countries: ‘– Is it technically easy to wind up own trade walls?’ That's what Steensnæs corresponds to: ‘– The problem is that some actions affect fundamental national interests. It's not that easy to put around this. ‘... Further questions from the journalist and answers from Steensnæs: ‘– Simpler then with unhelp, even if it is less effective. Doesn't it seem a bit hypocritical? – Hypocrisy was now a word I wouldn't use. However, the figures underline the need for structural changes. Maybe we can use that expression?"Yes, I agree." We also have another good Norwegian word that covers the attitude of the Christian People's Party for which Steensnæs makes himself a spokesman, namely, double morality. I would like to have Steensnæs' comment on this, particularly in the light of the fact that the EU countries have now taken an initiative towards the WTO negotiations to exempt the poorest 48 countries from all customs and import restrictions in relation to having their goods sold to countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e250	The representative, Frost Sterri, referred to my introduction to the aid. When I said it's important that we keep to the goal of 1 pst. on GNI, I referred to the Centre's common note that we must at the same time facilitate increased trade and that developing countries should thus develop their own economy, which can improve the standard of living of the general population. There has to be a balance in this. Norway must also be willing to see its own interests in relation to the interests that we are to promote on behalf of the poorest countries. We should be able to afford that as a rich country. The central government took important steps to facilitate trade for the poorest countries. I think that the representative Frost Sterri is going very high on the field when she uses the concept of double standards. For if there is to be a balance in this, Frost Sterri should go to his own party's draft budget. She should see if she and her party have had the right balance to be able to use such strong words from this pulpit as spoke of double morality, for then it must also be a will from the Right to increase assistance. Over the years, the right has systematically aged its budget by taking money from the poorest countries. By reducing the aid by billions of dollars, the Right also gets money for tax relief for its own inhabitants. I would like to return a challenge to the Right: Does the Right think it is a validated form of morality?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e257	Thanks to the Progress Party it also looks this year that everyone else is agreed on the entire budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because the distance is so great between them and all of us. Even the Right's deviation from the aid budget seems rather small in relation to what the Progress Party is doing. But when the representative Steensnæs has such a mystical representation that the Labour Party is opposed to voluntary organisations and wants to reduce the involvement of voluntary organisations in Norwegian development cooperation, it is a claim that has not been documented. Rather, on the contrary, we believe that voluntary organisations play an important role, and that is also reflected in the budget. What goes directly to the voluntary organisations, and all that voluntary organisations can make use of over-the-counter resources – i.e. where it is listed in terms of purpose and country – will probably benefit the voluntary organisations in the same way that they can also benefit from the permissions of the multinational organisations, for example. UN. I thought that a goal that we also agreed on – in the same way that we agree on large parts of the budget – was to strengthen the UN. Then it becomes a little strange the impression that Steensnæs gives that we've now strengthened the UN too much. I would believe that because of the strengthening of the UN to which the draft budget was made – and which the budgetary agreement follows very far along, because the reduction is very small – we should rather state that we want a strong UN, that it costs, and that the increase in relation to multilateral organisations is something supported by the Storting. It would be a correct representation of what's holding the plural here in the hall, not that it's being produced as the previous government parties think, that there's now too much resources for the United Nations from Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e266	I am pleased with the repeated emphasis made by the representative of Blankenborg that the Workers' Party still regards the voluntary organisations as one of several important tools for both emergency and longer-term assistance. The reason why I asked this question, first of all to the Minister for Development and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, was the two propositions that the Stortinget has had to deal with, first of all St. pp. No 5, where a comment was made in relation to the clear cut in humanitarian aid to the two largest voluntary organisations working in the field, namely the Church's Emergency Aid and the Red Cross, and when one then was given the opportunity to re-salate the budget due to the release of funds within the ODA-approved domestic refugee expenditure which proved to be less than assumed, then a considerable amount of effort within the UN system, but thus still none of the corrections we had hoped for in relation to the two organisations mentioned above. The Christian People's Party for its part unequivocally supports the efforts of the UN system and believes it is important. It doesn't just have to do with the fact that we've got a firm seat in the Security Council, but it actually has to do with the fact that in that way we also want to show solidarity and a common promise with other countries in the United Nations system. So there is no doubt that we are behind a common position on this big issue of contributing through the United Nations system. But as I pointed out in my post, we want a balance, and we can't see that the government in the two mentioned propositions has had this necessary balance in mind in its proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e275	With the high profile of the central government on aid policy, it was surprising that the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre contained so little new information in the area of assistance. The point of development funds is very positive, but this should not require such extensive investigations that it would not have been possible to put any funds into the year's budget already. In stark contrast to this, the center's struggle is for the cut in the food market, which means that we are going to use enormous funds to allocate cheaper food for well-born Northmen. How does this correspond to the priorities of the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e282	I think a realistic starting point for the explanation of the disagreement between the SV and the central parties despite the fact that we agree on the objective of aid is that we have a different view of the importance of and the sensibleness of halving the food tax. It's a realistic starting point. Another starting point is that SV looks differently at the budgetary balance sheet and how much money it is possible to spend on the state budget without disturbing the stability of the economy. Within a realistic economic framework, we believe that we have been involved in a budgetary arrangement with the Rightful Workers' Party, which takes care of fundamental considerations of economic stability, while at the same time contributing to reasonable and necessary long-term action to improve the quality of assistance. The Development Fund is such a grip that I am pleased that SV agrees and supports it warmly. I noticed that in the SV's own special comment. The fact that SV then has DKK 5 billion extra outside the budgetary framework agreed between the Workers' Party and the Centre's parties is a separate story, but it reflects more the economic vision that SV has in relation to the centre parties than a disagreement about the importance of prioritising such measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e289	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e293	The Government's proposals for the external budget and the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre ensure a profile in which assistance, southern policy, trade and work in international organisations are seen in a context and are an integral part of Norwegian foreign policy. It is based on our role as a European nation combined with a recognition of our global responsibility. Foreign policy shall promote the interests and security of Norway, contribute to international reconciliation, justice, democracy and peace and protect fundamental human rights. In our aid and foreign policy, Norway places emphasis on promoting the values of our own society based on: democracy and welfare, combined with a functioning market economy, as well as equality between women and men, a well-functioning working life and a high level of public participation. This is in many ways the Nordic dimension of politics, where our foreign policy becomes relevant to most people, to a meaningful and humane life. Poverty remains the greatest challenge in our time, including in our neighbourhoods, and is closely linked to peace, security and the environment. Conflict and peace work is essential for people in large parts of the world to have their dreams and hope for the future fulfilled. Therefore, conflict prevention and conflict resolution are an important part of Norwegian foreign policy. The aid budget we are adopting today has an increase of DKK 1.5 billion. In addition, support to Central and Eastern Europe is increasing by a total of 60 pst. The majority of the Committee is committed to the main objective of Norwegian aid: poverty reduction. The UN defines development as an extension of human choices, opportunities for education, health and clean water. Poverty involves refusing these options. Norwegian aid and foreign policy include: targeting the International Development Goals of the UN and OECD to reduce the share of the world’s population living in poverty by at least 50 pst. by 2015, as also stated in the budget proposal. A worrying feature of development is the feminisation of poverty. Two thirds of the world's poor are women. Discrimination and repression against women is an obstacle to combating poverty and thus hinder development. Therefore, the gender dimension should be integrated into all development work. It is necessary to focus on women in each aid project and that Norway contributes both bilaterally and through the UN system to the provision of education, health care and basic human rights to girls. Assistance contributes best to poverty reduction in countries that pursue sound economic and social policies. Today's budgetary decision shows that these are important considerations in Norwegian aid. Developments in Zimbabwe and Nicaragua have consequences even if long-term projects are ensured by the continuation through other channels. Changes are also proposed in the land frameworks for countries such as Eritrea and Ethiopia for the same reason. Norwegian assistance focuses on the long-term and lasting effect of what we contribute. The primary goal is to find the most appropriate ways to channel our assistance on that basis. It is important that the various actors are part of a comprehensive Norwegian development and assistance strategy. Equally important is the creation of a comprehensive framework for development cooperation in each country, as presented in the World Bank’s Comprehensive Development Framework. It is necessary to look at developments in broad terms: industrial investment, trade, the development of democratic institutions and good governance, health and education. The 2001 budget is characterised by a recognition of the inclusion of sound governance and the establishment of central judicial functions as an integral part of the assistance. Our countries of cooperation both in the south and in our neighbourhoods in the north-east need a well-functioning public sector and a civil society where the people themselves form the local networks through participation and commitment. The UNDP has proposed that at least 3 pst. assistance should go to the information work of national NGOs. Our own voluntary relief and relief organisations also play a very important role in relation to local popular movements and otherwise make a formidable effort to combat poverty in each country. Since the Committee has previously asked for an assessment of the impact of volunteering projects and emergency aid, we will come back to this on a later occasion. The budget includes stepping up multilateral assistance, also recognising the importance of the United Nations maintaining and developing its autonomous role as an aid operator. It is now particularly important for the work of the UN organisations in Africa, both in terms of conflict resolution and long-term development. The poverty reduction objective is at the heart of Africa’s efforts, with the budget emphasis on the regional dimension. The policy towards Africa must be normalized and broad. Assistance must also be seen here in the context of economic development, trade, debt and bilateral political contacts. The conversion of business systems must also be seen in such a context. The worrying spread of AIDS in southern Africa means that we need to give priority to the fight against HIV and AIDS, as we are doing under the auspices of multilateral organisations. The same is true of the vaccination of children through the GAVI vaccine programme. Ensuring stable and predictable conditions in our neighbourhoods, in close cooperation with the EU, is a key objective of foreign policy. The UNDP's last report tells us that 150 million people in post-Soviet areas live in extreme poverty. The special feature of these is a standard of living that is unique in history. Here are the large regional dividing lines, even within today's Russia. North-West Russia is one of the worst-sponsored, with severe climatic conditions and environmental damage. The budget foresees that North-West Russia and the Baltic countries will continue to be priority areas for their efforts under the cooperation programme with Central and Eastern Europe in 2001. Barents' cooperation, which started in 1993, is important for developing North and People's co-existence in addition to nuclear safety through the Nuclear Action Plan and action on nutrition development. Sustainable development in North-West Russia must involve a wide range of actions based on cooperation between equivalent partners. In such cooperation, the Nordic members of the EU are both crucial actors and precursors. I would also like to refer to the northern dimension of the European Union, where we are very concerned about getting a real substance. The budget contains an action plan with support for those countries that are now applying for EU membership. EU enlargement will strengthen stability in Central Europe and expand the internal market, which will also have implications for the EEA Agreement. A very positive element in the budget is a significant strengthening of the allocation for international press, cultural and information purposes, which allows both the marketing of Norway abroad and active cross-border cultural cooperation. Finally, the progress party is normally placed on the sideline with its resistance to assistance. A curative feature is that the party will still provide assistance to Bangladesh. One of the party’s major representatives has apparently been in Bangladesh and experienced the problems by self-esteem. I had almost said, "We're going to have to send out more." It's kind of going to be some kind of expenditure, not for income, but for the acquisition of expenditure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e330	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e333	On the right, it is pleased that there is a unanimous committee that will continue appropriations for the Europe programme of 5 million. kr in the next year's budget, and also the committee leader, Steensnæs, stressed that this was important. But at the same time he made aware of a letter that we have all received via. fax today, from six research institutions such as operates with European research. At the end of that letter, it is called among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The means of European research are scarce, especially in relation to the importance of the political transformation that is now taking place in our part of the world. We therefore hope that more resources will be made available on the next occasion." Steensnæs’ comment on this was that the only solution is to increase the entry for European research. It's also natural, he said. We very much agree with that from the right. And it is amazing that the Government has not initially proposed to increase the budget line for European research, which is so important to Norway. But when Steensnæs expressed itself this way, does it mean that the conciliation partners in this budget – in other words, also the Workers' Party – agree that Europe's research should generally be strengthened, as the Right actually proposes in its alternative budget? And does that mean that the settlement partners will therefore come back to this issue of additional funding for European research at a later stage?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e345	I don't think I'm from this pulpit here, and now I'm not going to pre-empt any future budgets or treatment of the European message. But I would like to stress that, as politicians, in a world in transition, we have a growing need for good foreign policy research environments, environments that have both the sufficient capacity and competence to provide Norwegian society with knowledge of the changes that are taking place both globally and in our neighbourhoods in Europe. Such research should help to provide a basis of knowledge for our understanding of the world around us, including a basis for decisions to be made by government and greatness. And then I want to emphasize that I think we need research environments with different profiles and different approaches. This means that we need the European programme for more short-term research and information to us as politicians, but we also need long-term research, for example. under the direction of the Norwegian Institute for Foreign Affairs, the Institute for Peace Research or other research environments of the University Government. In the comment that has now been submitted by the majority of the Committee, and which the representative Frost Sterri is also involved in much of it, we have referred to the debate that is taking place in the context of the European Communication, where it may also be relevant to look closely at research related to Europe's objectives. Moreover, we have suggested that the European programme should now receive 5 million. kr in the 2001 budget. It also allows for the return of funds for project actions to research environments other than the European programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e352	I would like to address a topic that has already emerged in the debate. In the government’s proposals for the assistance budget, as mentioned earlier, the voluntary organisations came out rather poorly. Now Haakon Blankenburg, on behalf of the Workers' Party, has assured that the Workers' Party will continue to place great emphasis on the voluntary sector, but, as I said, the speech of the figures gives a different picture. Now this was partially corrected in the budget position, and all the honors of the Workers' Party for it. It is also part of the story that it was not only in the aid budget that the volunteer organisations came out badly. In fact, one could say that there was a constant feature in the 2001 government budget. The insurance policies of Haakon Blankenborg were very positive – that the Workers’ Party will continue to place high emphasis on the role of voluntary organisations in aid policy. Against this background, I would like to ask the main spokeswoman of the Workers' Party the following questions in this debate: Does Marit Nybakk agree that voluntary organisations should have their share of the growth of the aid budget, as it is obvious that the Workers' Party also believes that they are doing a large and important job in the aid policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e359	As a general principle, I believe that we need to look at the objectives and impact of the assistance, and then find out which actors can best run the individual projects. Individual actors in the aid work must also be seen in a comprehensive Norwegian development strategy. Equally important is the provision of a comprehensive framework and coordination between the various aid actors in the beneficiary countries. I agree that voluntary organisations are a very important channel for Norwegian aid. Not least I think it's about combating poverty. And there are many small projects at grassroots level carried out by non-governmental organisations and their local contact organisations. I think it is important that, as part of the Norwegian aid policy, we focus on both the small and the large voluntary organisations, each of which has a slightly different role to play. I myself have set up three completely different non-governmental organisations in the autumn and believe it is important that we, too, as politicians, support the work they are doing. It is clear that the voluntary organisations should have their share of the aid budget, but I would like to emphasise again that we need to look at the purpose and impact of the assistance. And then we have to look at which channels and which actors we allocate money through to achieve our goals precisely in terms of assistance, and on our development strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e370	I have noticed the representative Marit Nybakk's commitment to women in foreign and aid debates, and I am very pleased about that. What I am disappointed about is that the Workers' Party has not been willing to look at the proposal we have put into the budget that funds should be allocated to a project aimed at rehabilitating women who have been subjected to sexualised violence in the context of war. There is not a lot of money we suggest, and we could have been involved in discussing how the money could be recovered. But I want to ask you, what is the background for you not being able to take up this idea? And what could in case be an alternative way of raising this problem, a problem we think is very important, and that is too little visible in aid policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e377	The entire 2001 budget has, on the external side and the aid side, recognised the importance of investing in women in individual projects. It is important to bet on women in small projects, it is important to bet on women in microcredit, and it is also important to bet on health and education, because two thirds of the poor in the world are actually women. It is equally important – as the representative here points out – to look at the repression and violations of human rights that take place in relation to women around the world. Many UN organisations do a formidable job in improving living conditions and ensuring human rights for women. In this respect, I would like to refer to the means that are now being channelled through the United Nations system. I'm the first to sign that violence against women is an important obstacle to development around the world. For example, the World Health Organisation goes now actively involved in the work against circumcision and can succeed, simply because they have now made this a health problem more than a direct woman’s problem. I believe that the points raised by the representative Rug-Tvedt have been taken care of within the budgetary agreement that is now in place between the Labour Party and the Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e386	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e389	In contrast to many previous debates, this has not been a figure of the percentage of GDP granted for development aid. There is more focus on discussing some items in the budget and what priority should be given, and I think that is a step forward. In the past, the majority have basically only appealed to the blind wing of the population and have directed a moral index finger at us that has been primarily concerned with more documented results. The Progress Party is keenly interested in helping developing countries, but we will do so differently from the majority. We fully support disaster relief and humanitarian aid. As far as Bangladesh is concerned, it's true that one of our representatives has been there and actually got the impression that it was a constant disaster area, not least because of the floods. On the other hand, the progress party is opposed to project work and so-called industrial development based on unaided resources. The reason for our no is that such an external money supply promotes corruption and leads to the money getting into the hands of a few. We have examples that African heads of state have placed up to $8 billion in foreign banks, that is. the same amount as that country received in development assistance in 10 years. In addition, Nordics do not have enough knowledge and cultural understanding to lead projects in developing countries. In Norway, something can be called a self-help lobby, which has a self-interest in maximising unhelp. It consists of Norwegian emergency staff at home and abroad, from Norwegian foreign service, who feel well and feel their performance boosted by Norway providing a large share of GDP for unhelp, by Norwegian so-called voluntary organisations funded by unhelpful means, and by parts of the business community that obtain contracts through unhelpful means. These are all part of the lobby that wants to increase Norwegian u-help. The party of progress will primarily help developing countries through the free movement of goods, so that their business life can grow through natural demand and not through corrupting unaided resources. In the case of refugees, too, the Progress Party will help differently from the majority. While the majority is based on receiving asylum seekers in Norway, the Progress Party will help them by paying for them in the neighbourhoods. Only coverage of housing costs for one refugee family in Oslo is sufficient for the lifetime of at least ten such families in the vicinity of the refugees. The Progress Party notes that asylum seekers coming to Norway are largely among the most educated and prosperous in their home country and that they would be able to make more use of themselves at home or in their neighbourhoods. The Progress Party is open to a liberal immigration policy on market economy criteria. If a foreigner has obtained a job contract in Norway, he is welcome. When the employment contract expires and he does not have the power to get a new one, he must leave the country. In the meantime, Norway has benefited from its labour force, while the foreigner has made good money and gained useful work experience so that he can establish a business in his home country. Immigration policy, in the opinion of the Progress Party, should serve for mutual development. It is the best form of aid policy. Norwegian asylum policy contributes to the draining of developing countries for their best human resources. As an example of failure and counterproductive un-help, I would mention un-help to the Palestinian self-government authorities. As I have said before, Norwegian People's Aid receives approx. One hundred million. kr annually in State aid. At the same time, Norwegian Folkehelp has published brochures for use in Norwegian schools. These contain a strong condemnation of the State of Israel. In the magazine ‘Appell’ no. 1, 2000, it is claimed that the State of Israel is the only state in the world that has made use of torture for official policy. Furthermore, it is claimed that Israel pursues racial politics and that the Palestinians are a lost people in the links of Israel. It is highlighted that women and children have died in delivery in cars that have been stopped by Israeli checkpoints. The demise of Palestinian terrorists against civilians is not mentioned. Such reading is suitable for making Norwegian children hate the Jews. The Reulf Steen of the Labour Party said the other day that Norwegian People's Aid fights for the Holocaust never to repeat itself, but obviously does not understand that Norwegian People's Aid through such writings prepares the basis for a new Holocaust. Norway has tried to create peace in the Middle East through the Oslo Agreement. A part of the agreement is that the parties shall seek to work for reconciliation, such as: by removing hostile references in school books. Of course, it is impossible to create peace when people in the area from their early childhood are instilled in a negative and hateful image of their neighbors, and where those who use power and kill are portrayed as heroes. In September 2000, the Palestinian authorities published 14 new textbooks where peace with Israel is not even mentioned as an opportunity and where the Oslo Agreement is mentioned only once and not in connection with peace. The textbooks present Israel as an illegitimate state and as a colonialist conqueror. The books will not recognise the State of Israel, the name of Israel does not exist on a regional map and Israel is included in the State of Palestine. Israel is only mentioned in terms of contempt, e.g. in the case of massacres of Palestinians. An Islamic textbook claims that the defense of Islamic homeland is a supreme religious duty for any Muslim if one centimeter of his country is stolen. This is nothing less than a religious call to annihilate the State of Israel. We can only note that the Palestinian self-government authorities are not interested in creating conditions for a negotiated solution in the Middle East, but continue to develop hatred for the Israelis. It is claimed that the Norwegian aid goes to the poor, children and sick. But why should we absolutely help the formation of a state that obviously wants war? TV images show us children and young people who are obviously in better shape than you are in many other places. There are millions of people in the world who starve and hurt. Why should we absolutely support the Norwegian People's Aid and the Palestinian self-government when they are preparing the basis for a new Holocaust? Before – I see that I have one minute left – I have a little comment on Marit Nybakk’s desire to help women in particular, given that women make up two-thirds of the population in some of these countries. That's what I see as an attempt to link this to a popular Norwegian women's saxe argumentation to make the u-help more popular. Why not also focus on children who have the hurt, AIDS-related who have the hurt, sick and needy elderly? Why is there absolute focus on women, especially when they make up two thirds of the population? I have difficulty understanding that priority as something other than an appeal to a kind of vague feeling that women's cause is a good thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e417	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e421	It has been said in the past that the dividing lines in the Norwegian foreign policy debate go between the Progress Party and the other parties, and that is probably right. That's where we see the big dividing lines. The difference between the other lots is relatively marginal. Traditionally, we have discussed with the Progress Party their position on aid and aid for development in poor countries. We've probably given up discussing this with the Progress Party. But the Progress Party also has some other rather strange approaches to our foreign policy, and one of those things is that now in this budget they will reduce our diplomatic work around the world by 10 pst. It seems a little bit like 'think about a number'. Seventy-seven million. kr. They will reduce our diplomatic work in certain countries – in countries with totalitarian regimes, as they say. But there's nothing concrete about where this is going to happen, there's a soluble idea that's being thrown out. Then the representative Gundersen now says – and I would like him to be so kind as to elaborate on it a little – that when Norway gives asylum to people, we are involved in depriving the country from which they come. To get asylum you are persecuted, you have no role, you have to get away for your own safety and your family's life. And then Fridtjof Frank Gundersen says that maybe you should make sure that these are there – that is, those who are persecuted in these countries, we should not take in, but send back or reject, so that they can join and strengthen the country that does not want to have them there under the current regime. I'd like to see Fridtjof Frank Gundersen deepen it a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e432	Yes, this was a normal line, but the content of the line was fortunately new. When it comes to not specifying where the EEAS should limit its expenditure, we actually leave it to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with our helpful guidance. We believe that contact with totalitarian regimes can be reduced, and so should countries that are very distant from us, rather we should focus on a smaller area in the world, and that is also related to our general view of unhelp. As far as asylum is concerned, the questioner knows just as well as I do that there are very few people who get asylum in Norway. Those who are asylum-seekers and who are staying here will, of course, be accommodated on a humanitarian basis. This means that it has not been found to satisfy the requirements of the United Nations Convention on Refugees, which has been transferred to Norwegian legislation. They have simply been accommodated here on some humanitarian basis. So that's actually the answer. We believe that there are very few who will be persecuted in their homeland. When they get a humanitarian residence here, in our opinion, there are largely false premises. They should rather travel back. As the most skilled and the most active and those with the most money, they can benefit in their home country or neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e441	There is undoubtedly a market out there among people for part of the policy towards poor countries that the Progress Party expresses. But besides that, the representative Gundersen is also a principle liberalist thinking politician, and that's in the context I want to challenge him on some reasoning. He states that the policy of the Progress Party towards the developing world – which he believes is good, but different from that of other parties, which is right, at least that it is different – is that a desire for democracy and a market economy, as free as possible, is free to trade. The sum of it should give the desired solutions of individual freedom to all people, whom I think I understand Gundersen is in favour of. Let me also say that I think most of us are concerned that there should be both good democratic development, that we should have democracy in all countries, and that the market economy is the main tool for producing wealth in gross terms. But the Progress Party believes that this is sufficient. The rest of us believe that there is something more to it, because so many of these countries are so poor that the poorest people who never have the chance to grasp the freedom that democracy and the market economy give them. There is a need for a boost over time from the rich part of the world to enable the many people to participate in this. And this is where I'm surprised that such a principled politician as Fridtjof Frank Gundersen does not see the need for a heavy grip from the rich part of the world. It kind of doesn't hold with what they're suggesting in the setting, this Emil in the Lønneberget principle of giving out of his goodness, people are going to give out of their good will and not through the state budget. How will the representative Gundersen help the poorest in poor countries to take part in individual freedom by promising so much that market economy and democracy can become realities for them?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e450	Part of Sponheim's question was actually answered in my main post. So we don't believe in any of these promises that need to be made in poor developing countries. It is called poor developing countries, but there is no country where the difference between rich and poor is as great as it is in these developing countries, where there are groups and tribes sitting on huge values, which they then place abroad because of instability in their own countries. It is those who control the military forces that control the police and protect the power of the ruling political party. The fact that we are going to contribute by means of money to the democratisation of such a country makes it difficult for us to understand is possible, and the more we think about it, the more problems we see with such a way of creating democracy through Norwegian money. I also think that the results of the u-help where we have actually provided the most have been miserable. We can only look at Sri Lanka, where we've actually been able to contribute so much that they've managed to keep a war going for ten years – that's what we've achieved there. And these poorest countries in Africa we have helped all along. There are a number of developing countries that have not received any significant help; they have gradually proved themselves well. So I think this whole method of creating a liberal society is a mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e455	The following may well sound like dilettantism, but as a party that is the second largest of the Storting – at least today – it is necessary to demand some consistency in what is said from the Progress Party. First of all, the question of totalitarian regimes and diplomatic representation, where, Mr. The Gundersen draws away from concreteizing. But there have been discussions about the attitude of the Progress Party to totalitarian or non-totalitarian regimes here before. Let me give you a few examples and to the right if it would fall under the totalitarian regime category where the Progress Party would not have diplomatic representation. Pinochet's Chile has been mentioned here before. There may be a regime in which the Party of Advancement would not have diplomatic representation. Franco's Spain and a military-led South Korea have been discussed in the past, as far as I am concerned with not too negative comments from the Progress Party. Is this kind of totalitarian regime where the Progress Party will withdraw the diplomatic representation? So to the question of immigration and asylum seekers, where Mr. Gundersen thinks that the asylum seekers are the most well-informed, who should actually go back where they came from to help. But he wanted a liberal labour immigration according to the market economy principle. Should not liberal labour immigration include the most advanced, so that they too can come? Should this be a 'liberal' work immigration where the most advanced, the most skilled, should be denied entry because they are going to be home and do the job? Then it won't be particularly liberal. What kind of 'liberal' labour immigration is it that the Progress Party wants to make sure that the best-exploited are where they are? Isn't this another paradox in the presentation by the Progress Party of how to strengthen the poor countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e468	In order to take the most interesting question first, the fact that we want a labour immigration related to short-term employment contracts. This would mean that those who come here as immigrants earn money, they can raise money, they can also send money back to their families, and they get a useful work experience, which can be very positive when they return. We don't want those who come here on relatively short-term work contracts to be able to take their family with them. It will be a natural continuation for their professional life when they have invested a lot of money and gained some experience, to travel back to their home country. I think that logic is durable. As far as Pinochet is concerned, the Progress Party has the impression that he rescued Chile from a Marxist dictatorship, such as the United States and Japan. in Cuba. Overall, we think that the Chile that Pinochet left behind is better than many other countries. The same is true of Franco's Spain, where in his last years Franco prepared democracy in Spain and a good development, which was later demonstrated. And if you compare South Korea to North Korea, as some parties here in Stortinget have probably had some sympathy for some time, I also think South Korea is coming out positively.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e475	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e478	Norwegian foreign policy is largely influenced by our external relations in the EU. The government wants to pursue an active and offensive European policy. However, it is not possible to get under the chair that it is about compensating for not participating in the forums where European cooperation is formed. As stated in the budget proposal: ‘EU cooperation is currently being developed at high speed and several of the most interesting developments are taking place in areas where Norway has little or no formal influence.’ The latter is very well illustrated by the fact that the Foreign Minister is here today and not in Nice. The size has been addressed by the European Communication, which fully addresses the major challenges facing us from outside. The Government draws two important conclusions: firstly, that the EEA Agreement has become relatively less important because the development of European cooperation takes place in areas not covered by the EEA Agreement and, secondly, that the EEA Agreement is difficult to renegotiate. We are not going to deal with that message today, but it is obvious that these facts must have implications for the use of resources in foreign policy. It is simply more demanding to care for our interests when we have chosen to stand outside the main cooperation in Europe. The Nice Summit between EU countries is important to us. The EU now provides the basis for the forthcoming enlargement of the European Union. It's our neighbourhood, it's about, and about the conditions for stability, democracy and prosperity in our own part of the world. To the right, Norway believes that it needs to be involved and take responsibility for this development, even if we are outside the EU. Our alternative budget places considerable emphasis on the near-range approach. We want to increase the allocation to the neighbourhoods by 200 million. kr. In the view of the Right, it is important to give concrete signals to Norwegian businesses, non-governmental organisations and others who want to engage in the region, that we are ready to make funds available. In particular, the Right is committed to contributing to the strengthening of civil society, both in Russia and in the Baltic States. That is why it is important to further develop the people we have seen developing as a result of the cooperation programme. The right has also noticed that the Government of Europe Communication states that our cooperation with Russia can face new challenges as a result of the northern dimension of the EU. The Government wants to emphasise the use of the Baltic Sea Council and the Barents Council to implement the Northern Dimension in addition to the EU’s own cooperation structures with Russia. To the right, we will also demonstrate in practice that we give priority to the neighbourhoods by increasing the allocation of nuclear safety measures and health and environmental measures in the north. A discussion of a Norwegian action plan vis-à-vis the candidate countries of the EU is also taking place on the right. It is in Norway’s interest that the candidate countries are able to adapt to the requirements of EU membership, thereby providing a basis for stability and well-being in Central and Eastern Europe. At home, however, it is also necessary to increase knowledge of developments in the EU. Therefore, the Right proposes to increase the appropriations allocated to information, research and information activities in Europe by a total of 3.5 million. kr. We're glad that this year's overall committee also has 5 million eartags. to the European programme. The European programme provides important input in different areas, not least to politicians and to the active societal debate. I would like to recall the rounds we have already had so far in today's debate on European research in general. I now understand, on the basis of what has been said, that the conciliators will come back to the issue of increased funding for European research in the handling of the Europe Communication. We will meet that with great interest from the Right. Norwegian aid and development policy is moving slowly, but surely in the right direction, from the Right's point of view. Firstly, greater emphasis is now given to development conditions other than unilateral financial assistance. The 2001 budget proposal states that good governance is the key prerequisite for a country’s development. Good external framework conditions, such as: a fair and predictable international trade regime is another important prerequisite. The right considers that efforts to improve developing countries' framework conditions, in the form of indebtedness, improved market access or the promotion of investment, must be given priority. However, Norway has a part to play here, in the opinion of the Right. Secondly, efforts have been made to strengthen the quality assurance and evaluation of Norwegian assistance in a positive development, even though, in the opinion of the Right, it is not far enough. A third area in which the Right sees positive developments is the emphasis on value creation through industrial development in developing countries. A commentator in Today's Business wrote on December 6th this year that efforts towards the poor part of the world must be judged on the basis of the results for those who are "helped", not the good intention, as it said. In Norway, good intentions have been decisive for too long. We decorate ourselves with a high share of GNI for aid, while we have done very little to actively contribute to increased free trade. Allowing poor countries to participate in the market economy is the most important thing we can do to combat poverty. To this end, the right proposed in the financial debate that Norway should go in order to remove all tariff and quota restrictions on products from the least developed countries, as the EU has also proposed in the WTO negotiations. It would have been interesting to hear the members of the government comment on how the government will submit to such a proposal. It is our responsibility to focus on aid for development and not on aid for any political and economic development of the kind we have seen in Zimbabwe. The Mugabe phenomenon is a reminder that there are corrupt regimes fighting for survival, not only internal conflicts occur. Whole regions are at risk and therefore also the fragile development opportunities resulting from long-term development assistance. For this reason, the feedback provided by the Government into the budget, namely that the country’s status as a priority co-operative country, ceases to be satisfied. This is in line with the recommendation made by the Right in the aid debate two years ago. The achievement of results and the effectiveness of Norwegian aid are not good enough. It might be related to the fact that the objectives are not clearly defined. We know, for example. too little on what results we achieve with our multilateral assistance through different organisations – primarily the UN. We also know too little about the target achievement in the Norwegian voluntary organisations. One reason for the weak focus on the achievement of results is that the main objective of this government’s aid policy, as for the previous one, is to spend a certain amount of money on aid rather than to focus on the development effects it has. However, I see positive moves. The Government has announced a review of the group of priority co-operation countries and of countries receiving support for regional allocations, with a view to improving the effectiveness of assistance. The government says it will ‘develop new criteria for the allocation of funds’. The right meets the follow-up from the Government. Investment in industrial development is probably a positive trend. There has been a very fruitful dialogue and good cooperation between authorities and businesses that could have positive ring-effects. However, there is reason to stress that we need to keep public spending under constant supervision. The subsidised loan facility through NORFUND imposes high standards of follow-up, evaluation and control. On the right, the Council of State would like to return to the United Kingdom with a review of the strategy for the development of nutrition, as she addresses to the Foreign Affairs Committee on 30 November this year. I'll bring this to the right suggestion in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e513	Siri Frost Sterri has taken up the suggestion she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e518	In my view, it is disappointing that the Right in its alternative budget cuts so heavily on the aid to the poor countries – as I know, a record cut from the Right side of DKK 2.5 billion. Important development measures will have to be taken into account. This cannot be explained by the desire to place increased emphasis on free trade, and it is also, in my view, bad according to the values on which the Right wants to build. I had hoped that the Right would have listened more to a value conservative like that. Henrik Syse, who has asked the Right to have a completely different involvement in aid policy. But leave it alone, because what I want to focus on and ask Siri Frost Sterri to answer, is the Right's view of the volunteer organizations' place in the aid work. After all, the right has traditionally a positive view of voluntary involvement and supports non-governmental organisations in a variety of budget areas. This is why the negative attitude of the Right in dealing with the aid budget is now in the autumn, the more surprising. In its own alternative Kutter Right 300 million. kr on this item. The government’s proposals were also rather poor, taking into account the generally significant increase in the assistance framework. The central parties and the Workers' Party have been corrected by an increase in the current allocation of 25 million. kr. But the right is distinguished by not participating in this increase within the agreed framework. Also when we come to case No. 3 Today, with regard to changes to the 2000 budget, the Right flashes with its absence in comments highlighting the importance of keeping up the appropriations of voluntary organisations. So my question is, why is the Right so negative to the efforts of non-governmental organisations in the relief work? This applies, inter alia, to: organisations such as the Red Cross and the Church Emergency Aid. And why is there such a contrast between what the Right does to aid issues, and what they do to non-governmental organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e529	I will insist that it is double moralism that the Christian People's Party presents in aid policy: it is important to strike for the chest and achieve 1 pst. of GNI, i.e. send money to developing countries, but their commodities are not sold on the Norwegian market, at least not agricultural products, because it could harm Norwegian agriculture. I think this way of building up barriers and barriers to developing countries, which most of the time need to develop their business life, is amazing. Much of the assistance to be provided is better regimes and the setting up of activities in developing countries, so that they do not remain on a permanent basis poor and dependent on transfers of funds from countries. I don't think it's just to blow off, as Bondevik tries to prove by pointing out that the cut Right proposes in its alternative budget of about DKK 2.5 billion, cannot be compensated by the fact that we want to build down and remove the customs barriers, so that the developing countries can sell their goods on the Norwegian market. I also think, if I can manage to comment on it, that what he said about the Right's attitude towards non-governmental organisations is amazing. Bondevik knows very well that this is not right – that, on the contrary, through our alternative budget, we also strengthen the contribution of voluntary organisations to efforts in the neighbourhoods, and not least in terms of European information. If plus/minus 25 million. kr should be decisive for whether you have a positive or a negative view, then I think this is going to be small.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e537	SV agrees with the Right that contributing to nuclear safety in Russia and our neighbourhoods is very important. But not long ago, the Right had an interpellation in the Storting that focused on the fact that there are long-term, unused means of nuclear safety. The problem here seems to be that there is not a lack of money, but a lack of clear agreements with Russia that allow them to start work. When the Right proposes 200 million. kr extra for this, it therefore seems like a pure demonstration policy from the Right, and it is difficult to see how the Right believes that this money can be spent in a reasonable way during the next year. When the Right funds its investment by cutting off active aid programmes in Africa and Central America, this seems to be very poor management of aid funds, in our view. How will the Right defend this kind of aid management, and how will it be possible to use the 200 million? kr as proposed by the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e544	I agree with the representative Lisbet Rugtvedt that unfortunately it takes far too long to get results on the nuclear clean-up programme, and that unfortunately there has been too much unused funding for this for a long time. But what we've always been busy stressing is that when it gets loose, the money will go with it, and well that's what it is. Therefore, we have been relatively cautious in relation to the reallocation of large parts of these budget resources. But what Lisbet Rangtvedt can't have brought with him is that the 200 million. kr, as proposed by the Right in its alternative budget, shall also be used for the cooperation programme relating to Eastern Europe and North-West Russia. So, in other words, it's not earmarked for the nuclear safety measures alone. Here we can point to the enormous needs that exist, not least in our eastern neighbours in North-West Russia. I think it was a thought-provoking look at the evening post on 30 November, when the president of the Norwegian Red Cross, Thorvald Stoltenberg, said that the conditions in North-West Russia are frightening. They're below the poverty line, and they're our closest neighbors. There is a great need for effort and help in this area in terms of food and clothing, in other words, direct emergency aid, but also to build civil society. So this is going to be enough of the measures to use the funds on, there can't be any doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e551	I want to return to my question to the representative of Sterri from my previous line and ask that she concentrate her answer on what my question really was about, namely, the right-wing negative attitude towards the place of volunteer organisations in the aid work. It's not true that this is just about the right-wing vote against an increase of 25 million. kr within the agreed framework of assistance. In addition to that, right-handers in their own alternative budget $300 million. kr on the allocation to voluntary organisations. It is such a big cut that the work of important non-governmental organisations such as the Red Cross, the Church's Emergency Aid, Norwegian People's Aid and others will be seriously affected by a valuable work in this area. In addition, the Right smiles with its absence in a comment on case no. 3 today, which is also on the budget of voluntary organisations for the current year. I would have thought that once the Right has had to state its own large cut in the aid budget of NOK 2.5 billion, of which they will take a total of SEK 300 million. in the case of non-governmental organisations, they could at least, within the framework adopted and to which the right has otherwise acted, assist in correcting some of the negative treatment granted to non-governmental organisations. But no, even here, the Right shines with its absence – together with the Advance Party too. Then I have to repeat my question: why this consistently negative attitude towards non-governmental organisations in the field of aid work, while the Right also says that they are very positive to non-governmental organisations in a number of other areas of society, whether in school or in humanitarian and social work, etc.? Why this contrast between the attitude of non-governmental organisations in this area towards all others? This I think is an attitude many are going to notice that the Right has consumed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e562	I don't quite understand, sir. Bondevik’s indignification, which in any case boils down to a case later today where the Right does not want to attend – they excel with their absence, said Bondevik – in a note related to appropriations for the current year, redisposals in the State budget. We are not alone in that case, it also applies to the Workers' Party. There's a minority comment related to this. Demonstration policy, perhaps some would also claim. For today's setting, it boils down to plus/minus 25 million. kr, which shall trigger this strong indignation. But then I'm going to give Bondevik the right idea that in our alternative budget we operate with completely different numbers. But, of course, they must also be seen in the light of our priorities in the aid policy. We would like to stress, as other parties do, that the voluntary organisations are making a great and unprofitable effort in many areas. Now the Right believes that we should concentrate our efforts a little more, and also turn it more against our neighbourhoods, even though part of the assistance that cannot then come and decorate in statistics regarding so-called ODA-approved appropriations. So we're not so concerned about whether we reach 1 pst. of GNI or not in relation to the rules underlying the calculation of that percentage. We are concerned with results, and we believe that Norway should take greater responsibility, not least for its closest neighbour in the east. And there are also other areas in our neighbourhoods that should require much greater attention, including from Mr. Bondevik's own party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e569	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e572	The agreement on the 2001 budget concluded between the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party provides for a net expenditure framework for the foreign and assistance budget of nearly DKK 14.9 billion. Of the increase of approx. DKr 1.8 billion compared to the current year's budget refers to approx. EUR 1.5 billion for the increase in the aid budget. It says a good deal about the growth power of the Norwegian economy that this relatively strong increase is necessary to maintain – in order to maintain – the share of development aid at 0.89 pst. of gross national income in 2001. And equally important, the numbers also tell us that it is a demanding goal to escalate the Norwegian aid to 1.0 pst. of gross national income, a target both for the Workers' Party, for the Centre Parties and for the SV has been confirmed in this setting. The budgetary position of the Foreign Affairs Committee illustrates where the main lines of Norwegian policy are in terms of distribution and international solidarity. While the majority, the Labour Party, the Centre Parties and the SV, support the overall framework of the Government's proposal, the Right in its alternative budget proposes to cut DKK 2.5 billion into the U-assistance framework. But the Progress Party will reduce the total budget by over 7 billion dollars. The budget setting contains relatively modest changes compared to the original government proposal. It is primarily due to the fact that the proposal largely follows the budgetary guidelines and priorities set by a broad majority of the Grand Duchy during this period. However, the changes that have been implemented are important markings of both courses and priorities. In the government’s proposals, voluntary organizations came out relatively weakly compared to the current year’s budget. The fact that the Stortinget has asked the Government to evaluate the impact of assistance and emergency aid channelled through the voluntary organisations was not meant to signal down the appropriations. However, it is positive that the Workers' Party is involved in an increase in the contribution of 25 million to the organisations. kr. A broad majority in the UK believes that poverty orientation should be a key principle for Norwegian aid. In the opinion of the Centre Party, voluntary organisations constitute an important and poverty-oriented channel for Norwegian aid. There is therefore no reason why organisations should not be given their share of the growth of the overall aid budget. This question will be brought back when the notified evaluation of the organisations’ assistance efforts is available. The work of organisations is not limited only to the active development aid. Without the efforts of the organisations, it would have been difficult to maintain the strength of the sense of solidarity in the Norwegian people, the solidarity strengthening that is the pillar of the popularisation of the assistance provided by Norway. In May 1998, the central government introduced a debt plan for the poorest and most indebted developing countries. This debt plan, which has received considerable international attention, is followed up in the 2001 budget. Indebtedness cancellation measures are proposed at a rate of 350 million. kr, an increase of 100 million. kr. It is positive that the majority, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, demonstrate that such indebtedness is necessary to help the most indebted developing countries to relaunch. There is a balance of views between the views of the majority and those of the Progressive Party on the debt situation of developing countries. In the alternative budget of the Progress Party, we can read among other things. the following on this issue: ‘In the case of the debt burden of developing countries, the Progress Party considers these countries to be independent States which, as a result, have a separate responsibility for their loans and are properly disposed of so as to allow them to be repaid in a timely manner. The debt crisis is primarily an expression of the fact that the loans have been used only to a small extent to develop a market-oriented production life, but have been squandered in the same way as the unaided funds." It seems that the Progress Party has no understanding that the primary needs of the poor population, namely food, water, health and education, must necessarily be ranked ahead of the development of a so-called market-oriented production life. Assistance to the priority countries and regions was also proposed in the draft budget of the Government. This is partly due to the deliberate stepping up of multilateral assistance, on the one hand, and political conditions in the recipient countries on the other. It's e.g. broad political agreement that Zimbabwe's status as a priority co-operative country will be brought to an end. Africa remains problem area No. 1 in the case of poverty and disease. The majority, the Working Party, the Centre and the SV, are therefore going in to redeploy 20 million. from the contribution to UN organisations to the regional allocation to African countries. An important reason for extra investment in Africa is the need for action to address the dramatic HIV/AIDS epidemic that threatens large parts of the African continent. Not only is one facing an almost unimaginable humanitarian disaster, if one is not in control of the development of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, but one can also risk political destabilization of the worst affected African countries, which will put an end to any other positive development. The government has announced that it will focus on the underlying causes of conflicts in the UN Security Council, and the fight against HIV/AIDS is a central theme. The central batches, in their joint comments, support the proposed deployment of the GAVI vaccine initiative. In its statement on human rights, the Foreign Affairs Committee placed great emphasis on the work of voluntary organisations in the fight for these rights. A unanimous committee stressed that the independent organisations involved in the fight for human rights are important for this work. Here too, the popular commitment is important. The Committee therefore considers that non-governmental organisations disseminating knowledge and attitudes on human rights should receive financial support. The newly established Falstad Centre at Levanger is one of the meeting places to which the Committee has focused. This national centre of expertise for documentation, training and information on the history of the war, humanitarian international rights and human rights has already established a comprehensive network which also includes international human rights institutions. The Falstad seminar is already established as an important meeting place for people engaged in, among others. international and human rights. The theme for the last seminar in October this year, ‘The media-created reality. On war propaganda, war reports and human dignity, the Falstad Centre shows that it deals with the most current issues. The role of Norway in the new European defence and security cooperation, such as: include humanitarian peace operations, requiring training of personnel, including: humanitarian international law and human rights. In this context, it should be possible to facilitate cooperation between the authorities and the centre of expertise represented by the Falstad Centre. In the 2001 budget, the majority of the Grand Duchy follows up the comments of the Foreign Affairs Committee in the human rights position on financial support to the Falstad Centre. In the budget configuration of the Church, Education and Research Committee, budget revenue. S. No 12, proposes the Workers' Party, the Centre Parties and SV to allocate 2 million. kr to Falstadsenteret.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e611	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e614	This was an unusual post from Mr. Jakobsen, who stresses the broad agreement, is about large parts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget. So, sir. Jacobsen might be the euphoric political spokesman for the center, as we have seen. But at one point, I believe that if not Jacobsen, perhaps others from the centre, but perhaps also Jacobsen, is about to do the voluntary organizations a bear service by presenting it as if it were a depriority of the volunteer organizations in the state budget, and that the Government and the Labour Party want to weaken the efforts of the voluntary organizations, because that is not right. If you look at the argument behind this, it becomes a little strange, because on the one hand he says that the voluntary organisations have not received their share of the growth. But no one has a ‘part’ of the growth in the budget, because it is a political priority. There is no automatic in that if it grows in one area, it also has to grow on everyone else. When one of them has chosen to bet on the United Nations system, all of which are common, it's not that everything else can grow the same amount at the same time. And in relation to voluntary organisations, it will be so that they can extract resources and participate in projects across areas other than those allocated to voluntary organisations. That's the way it is in the emergency area, and that's the way it is in many areas. So this thing with its part doesn't exist in the budget. In addition, if you look back and look at the calculation, you will see that within the last few years there have been transfers from other areas, for example. from the emergency area to the voluntary organisations. So the Kosovo crisis will then blow up the transfers to the voluntary organisations, but fortunately the Kosovo crisis is about to take place, at least in emergency situations. As a result, transfers in this context will be reduced, and this has also been addressed in previous debates. That's why it's natural that things go up and down when you look at the account, and so you should not look at the accountancy, but at the actual situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e625	Sir. Blankenborg thought that one should not stick so much to accounts, but also look at the actual situation. I guess I can turn that over a little bit by saying that the benevolent insurance is good and good, but when the numbers say something else, there has to be a basis for pointing it out. Earlier in the debate, I was very pleased that Haakon Blankenborg, in a line change earlier today, has assured me that the signals given in the 2001 budget are not a signal of a decline in the voluntary sector in the Workers' Party. However, I also ask for understanding that when this is a horizontal feature of the overall budget and there is also some of the same meeting in the aid budget, it must be allowed to raise a question as to whether this marks a new attitude on the part of the Workers' Party regarding the view on the importance of the voluntary sector in Norway. But I take note that Haakon Blankenborg, who is the main spokesman of the Workers' Party on foreign and aid policy, has today assured that what is in the budget must almost be seen as a random outcome. The appropriations go up and down to use his own words. I am pleased that this debate has made this clarification, and that there is now a reason to place a decisive emphasis on the fact that, as far as the policy on non-governmental organisations is concerned, there is a broad majority in the UK that supports it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e634	I'm going to have to follow up on the representative Jakobsen now responded to regarding the volunteer organizations. First to the number of digits: Norway is the country within the OECD area which provides the largest share of its assistance via non-governmental organisations. The figures are completely different for other countries, among others. channelling France only 1 pst. by its assistance budget through non-governmental organisations. The percentages for the other Nordic countries are 20 for Sweden, 11 for Finland and 8.5 for Denmark. So Norway gives a quarter, 25 pst., of its assistance through non-governmental organisations. But that is not the main point here. The main point is that we need to define the objectives of our aid policy – where is it needed? – and then we need to find out which actors can best perform and exercise the assistance we think is needed. We can kind of not do the opposite, starting by pointing out the actors and then figuring out what kind of assistance we can channel through these actors. It's going to be completely wrong. Just to follow up on the entry of the representative of Blankenborg. Kosovo is a good example, where the emergency situation was such that it was natural to address the large, dominant emergency aid organisations in Norway. Now the situation is different. There is now a need for longer-term assistance projects, and there may be different actors involved. I would also like to stress once again that the non-governmental organisations that we have in Norway are a very important channel, and do a very important job, not least in terms of poverty-oriented assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e653	Of course, it is quite right, as Marit Nybakk says, that in Norway, development assistance is channelled more through non-governmental organisations than in hardly any other country. And then we can ask, why is this situation? Well, the explanation can be no other than that one in Norway has had such good experience of this being a targeted and effective, and also cost-effective, way of channelling help to the poor part of the world. Once we've made this experience, and there seems to be a broad consensus that this is an effective and good way to channel help to poor countries, it's a bit striking that in a situation where the overall framework for assistance increases by approx. NOK 1.5 billion, in fact, is being reduced by the appropriations of voluntary organisations. Now, Stortinget has said in the past that it wants an evaluation of the impact of the funds channelled through non-governmental organisations. But, as I said in my post, that one has asked for such an evaluation, must not be interpreted in such a way that there is a signal that one should step down the effort. Now Marit Nybakk, as Haakon Blankenborg, has very strongly stressed that the voluntary organisations are making a great deal of effort in terms of the main profile, namely the poverty-oriented part of Norwegian aid, and I think that we should really be able to settle down on the actual situation, namely that there seems to be a broad consensus that voluntary organisations play such an important role, and that next year's budget underlines in a more convincing way that this is the situation, regardless of who had to promote this draft budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e664	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e667	The international community has set itself the goal of halving world poverty by 2015. It's an ambitious, but feasible goal. To achieve this, the richest countries must be willing to provide assistance, but also be willing to give up debt and work to change the pattern of trade, so that the interests of poor countries are better cared for. Through an effective assistance effort, we have the opportunity to share in the relief of distress and human suffering brought about by poverty. We also have the opportunity to start and contribute to processes that lead countries and people out of poverty in the long term. Action on education and health are key factors. Another key factor is the construction of democracy and a strong civil society. Democracy and a strengthened civil society are important prerequisites for better distribution between the poor and rich internally in the poor countries. In the view of the SV, voluntary organisations have a very important role to play in contributing to the development of civil society in countries receiving Norwegian assistance. Just as State aid and multi-lateral assistance have their advantage, so organisations constitute aid channels with specific opportunities. In my opinion, a matter that is rarely mentioned is the fact that the large aid organisations mainly follow a strategy in which they work closely with local partners, and where it is the local partners that mainly implement the assistance. On this side of non-governmental organisations, I would like to ask the Minister for Development to pay particular attention to the review announced for the voluntary organisations. So when we look at the role of voluntary organisations in building civil society through cooperation with local partners, we talk about how voluntary organisations can help us achieve a goal, not just as actors. There is a great deal of excitement about assistance in Norway. A survey conducted by the Statistical Central Bureau in the spring showed that 88 pst. of the asked were positive to Norwegian u-help. The conclusion of assistance gives good comfort at a time when it may seem that there is only cheaper pork and petrol that counts. The point of progress can notice that they are in nocturnal contact with the voters in this area, then 67 pst. by the progress part-selectors are actually too unhelpful in that survey. SV has put forward a proposal for a solid increase in the framework of the aid budget in our alternative state budget. We found room to increase the frame by 328 million. kr. In our alternative aid budget, we included: of more means of eradicating unindebtedness, and we increased the appropriations for Africa. The aid budget we are dealing with today also means positive growth. But it's not a progress towards the goal of 1 pst. of GNI for assistance. In addition, oil revenues are expected to grow in such a way that the aid will be less than the objective of 0,89 pst. as the Government has specified. It is unfortunate that this objective is repeated by each budgetary cross-section without reaching its objective. The idea of setting up a development fund can be a good way to increase aid efforts. SV therefore supports the proposal to investigate this. In the SV's alternative state budget, we put forward proposals to set up an oil fund for investment in the poorest countries. So this was not the same as a development fund, where we are talking about more traditional aid, but part of the oil fund, where we believe that the funds should be invested in poor countries. We have called this a solidarity fund because we believe that Norway must be prepared for this fund to yield less returns than the ordinary oil fund. The proposal is to allocate DKK 5 billion of the funds of the oil fund to investments in the world's poorest countries. Einar Steensnæs was concerned about SV's proposal and expressed concern about its inclusion. I would like to make it clear that we are proposing to set aside €5 billion of the oil fund's resources in a separate fund invested in the poorest countries. By the end of the year there will be 385 billion kroner on the oil fund, while the Yellow Book says that by the end of next year there will be 589 billion kroner on the oil fund. And then we think it's going to be pretty good that we can allocate $5 billion of these funds to investment in the poorest countries. We do not see that these two proposals on funds are contradictory. Today, as we are jamming and salting down oil money, we should both be able to spend more oil money on traditional aid, and we should be able to direct some of our oil investment towards the poorest countries in order to contribute to food development. The SV has repeatedly addressed the unfortunate practice of charging expenditure on refugees in Norway to the aid budget. This item has now reached over 800 million. kr. This year alone, the post office is growing by over 200 million. kr. This helps to distort the reality of the aid budget. It is also unclear why this item should grow so strongly when funds at this item had to be redispatched this year because not all funds would be used. In the current year, according to the UDI, it is a total of 215 million. of the funds that will not be used. In the draft budget we are promoting today within the framework, we are therefore proposing a moderate cut. Ninety-five million. kr. These are means that we believe should be applied in other areas. Firstly, we are proposing an increase in humanitarian aid to Kosovo. We are concerned that the Government is adding to the speedy turning of Kosovo aid into institution building. There is still a need to support, for example: building and other humanitarian activities in Kosovo. We are also promoting proposals that funds should be put in place to launch an international project aimed at women who are exposed to sexual abuse as part of warfare. We know that this is a major problem in Kosovo, Rwanda and elsewhere. Tabu and delusions help to make these problems invisible and to reinforce the problems of the affected women and children. As I said, I am disappointed that the committee has not wanted to help raise this issue along with SV. The fact that there is a lot of sense about women in general in the aid budget does not hold, we also have to address this particular problem in concrete terms. SV proposes increased funding for foreign policy research. There is a need to strengthen research on, inter alia: international law and new forms of conflict. We also propose a significant increase in funding for international work in the field of climate change. The funny thing we've had in Norway this fall, the frightening growth in cases of extreme weather internationally combined with research reports means that more and more people are recognising that climate change is real and that there is a need to take countermeasures. Business activities have become a significant part of the aid budget. SV is not in doubt that it is an advantage to involve Norwegian businesses in the aid work. Nor are we in any doubt that there is a need to focus on the development of nutrition as part of the fight against poverty. What we are in doubt about is whether the arrangements we have today are effective enough. We want a review to be carried out with a view to finding out whether more of the food for human consumption should have gone directly to developing countries, in other words, if too many of these funds go back to ourselves. The Norwegian debt plan was an important step in the right direction for a decent Norwegian debt policy. We now believe that it is time to take a step further. The SV therefore proposes the creation of a revised debt plan, which provides for the cancellation of debt also to disadvantaged middle-income countries. Together with the Centre, the SV promotes proposals for the Government to investigate mechanisms that could better facilitate organisations to work with impact in relation to the EU and the EEA. We see this as important both in terms of creating a better debate on EU and EEA issues in Norway and in order to allow organisations to influence the recognition that many decisions affect, among others. environment and health, now decided outside Norway. SV continues to support the European programme, and we have taken note of the positive conclusion of the evaluation of the programme. However, we believe that the six research institutes that have written letters to the Foreign Affairs Committee have good points when they are asking for funding for European research in addition to the European programme. The SV therefore believes that the Foreign Affairs Committee should come back to this during the examination of the European Communication and provide guidance on how to strengthen research on Europe. I address the SV's proposal and the proposal promoted by the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Left and the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e713	Lisbet Ruggtvedt has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e718	The question I want to address to Lisbet Ruggtvedt is one of the proposals that SV is behind, and on which she has also succeeded in getting the centre parties, namely proposal No. 3, asking the Government to develop mechanisms to facilitate Norwegian non-governmental organisations to increase their activity vis-à-vis the EU and the EEA, including the possibility of setting up an office of Norwegian organisations in Brussels. The intention of the proposal, if I understand correctly, I agree. But then I'm not sure I understand that right. The right of its share has granted 2 million. to enable voluntary organisations to increase their activities related to European issues. And if they also find it useful to set up offices in Brussels, that's all right. We hope that the increased appropriations can help them to do so if they want to give priority to using them for this. But when the central parties and the SV want the government to investigate arrangements, is it so to understand that you want the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to set up an office in Brussels for non-governmental organisations? And shall they then be a kind of extended arm of the U.D? I think this is a strange mix. If you want to use or stimulate non-governmental organisations, you have to do it on their premises. But what they need is money, not some kind of imposition and fixation of arrangements where they get mixed up with the U.D. So isn't the reality of this proposal that you wanted to say something, but then you didn't have money, or at least you didn't prioritise money, for this measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e727	The President would point out that ‘fiction’ is a good expression, but the President is not quite sure that it is parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e730	It's not right that this is something we've suggested because we haven't come up with anything better. On the contrary, we now believe that it is important that we get an investigation of this, so that we can get schemes that are well thought out and feasible. The right-hand side has proposed 2 million. kr. It's probably not enough to cover the costs that we're talking about here. We've been recorded, among other things. from the European Movement in this matter with offices, so there is nothing that we've just got out of the air on the go. I think it can be a very concrete measure. It's important that we think practically and concretely here. Then I think that figuring out the possibility of such an office can be one important thing. Of course, it is important that this should not be the U.D.'s office and that organisations should not act as an extended arm of the U.D. It is very important for us that the organisations should stand free and work on their own premises. However, we also believe that it is in Norway’s interest to facilitate the organisation’s proper functioning and that it is practical to do so. We had hoped that we could have a majority for this, and that we could quickly get some suggestions from the Government on how schemes, both support schemes and the practicality of this with any office, can be arranged quickly, so that we can get started. I have also registered that this is a good thing in line with the European message. There is also a need to improve the organisation’s ability to work in relation to the EU and the EEA.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e739	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e742	Our daily lives are increasingly affected by events outside our country's borders. Globalisation has contributed to more open and democratic societies and provided new opportunities for cooperation on common problems. At the same time, we have a governance problem because political reality has not changed as economic development progresses. We can say that we've got a global economy, but we haven't yet had enough global policy. For the Left, it is a natural and important responsibility to contribute to addressing these common regional and global challenges. The central government presented a plan for stepping up Norwegian assistance to 1 pst. by GNI, and as a result we were in the process of increasing the year's aid budget to 0.89 p.m. of GNI. While the year’s budget does not represent a new percentage increase in the share of GNI in aid, it does provide for a sharp increase in aid due to growth in gross national income. For the Left, it is therefore important to confirm that we are standing firm on the central government's escalation plan, and we will commit ourselves to further working for a stepping up towards the goal of 1 pst. of GNI. However, the quality and the arrangements of the assistance are more important than the quantity involved. The Left wants to continue and strengthen key principles of Norwegian aid, such as poverty reduction, women-oriented assistance and the commitment to sustainable development. Assistance must be directed more strongly towards countries that are willing to implement sound economic policies and want sustainable and democratic development. The left therefore supports the cessation of Zimbabwe's status as the main co-operation country and the sharp reduction of aid to Ethiopia and Eritrea. Africa has had little participation in the benefits of globalisation of the economy, such as economic growth, the dissemination of technology and social development. On the contrary, the continent is still haunted by war, strife and corruption. The left is therefore pleased that we have increased regional allocation to other African co-operation countries by 20 million. kr. Much of the beneficiary countries for this allocation are in southern Africa, and it is important to build up under economic and social development in the region. For the Left, voluntary organisations have always played a central role in Norwegian aid. They make an important effort in several areas: as a channel for direct assistance to beneficiaries as poor and women, in particular where state aid is made difficult by the authorities of the recipient country as a catalyst for mobilising voluntary, non-profit efforts by Norwegian citizens, and as a channel for information to the Norwegian people as a channel for mobilising additional resources from the voluntary sector as a centre of expertise in the construction of civil society in the recipient country, including: through cooperation with local and national organisations For these reasons, voluntary organisations, from the few large to the many small, constitute a completely necessary complement to state aid. We are therefore also very pleased that the centre parties have achieved a positive impact in order to increase the funding for the assistance of non-governmental organisations by 25 million. kr. The reform of the Peace Corps has led to a greater build on organisational cooperation between Norwegian organisations and their partners in the south and to cooperation based on equivalency and reciprocity. These are important principles for the Left, and we trust that the new Peace Corps will be an important element in mobilising young idealism for peace and development efforts internationally. The fight for human rights must be at the forefront of Norway’s international work. For a liberal party, the idea of man's inviolable rights is the most central element in our ideological thinking. We have reason to rejoice that human rights and democracy as a form of government are stronger than ever after the fall of communism. Information technology and increased contact between people across national borders also counteract totalitarian trends. At the same time, extensive violations of human rights are being documented, including in Europe. Human dignity connects more than state boundaries divide. The work on human rights and democracy must therefore be at the forefront of Norway’s international efforts. It is with great satisfaction that I can see that we have succeeded in finding the money to follow up the decision of the Storting during the processing of the Human Rights Notice to set up a national human rights institution added to the current Institute of Human Rights. The realisation of this project will lead to a clearer anchoring of the responsibility for research and follow-up of human rights in Norway. Work for peace and inter-people understanding must go hand in hand with traditional human rights work, for nowhere are human rights as systematically violated as where war and persecution take place. Norway has made a positive mark as a peacemaker in a number of conflict areas in the 1990s, and the Left believes that this work must continue. At the same time, much of the important work for peace and dialogue takes place outside the intergovernmental negotiations. Civil society is doing an important job of creating arenas for dialogue between peoples, and of building up peace and reconciliation processes both in Norway and in the countries concerned. This people for the people's cooperation must be guaranteed good and stable framework conditions, and the Left has therefore, as part of the majority of the Foreign Affairs Committee, asked the Ministry to consider whether it is possible to provide basic support to peace organisations in order to facilitate their follow-up to information work on peace. The crisis in the Middle East is a serious threat to stability in the region, and the closure of the Palestinian territories may develop into a humanitarian disaster if the situation is not normalised in a relatively short time. The Left hopes that Norway will use its place in the Security Council and the Foreign Minister’s participation in the International Fact-finding Commission to put pressure on the parties involved to reduce the level of violence and resume peace negotiations. Norway should not be so concerned with being a neutral third party that we fail to point out serious and systematic violations of human rights, including excessive violence and the extension of settlements on occupied soil. The budget includes an increase in assistance to the Middle East and the introduction of a new regional allocation. The left is satisfied with this clear priority and assumes that adequate emergency assistance is now also being provided to the Palestinian territories to remedy the humanitarian situation there. Finally, I would like to stress that the Left has always been a champion of the UN as the central, global political arena, and a central channel for multilateral assistance. It is regrettable that a handful of countries, including the Nordic countries, account for a disproportionate share of voluntary contributions to UN agencies, funds and programmes. This will in the long term undermine the multilateral character of these organisations. However, when the Left is satisfied with the increase in contributions to the United Nations organisations in the budget, there are two main reasons for this: firstly, it is only by setting a good example that we can work effectively to make other countries increase their contributions. Multinational responsibilities must be that everyone should give the same amount, not that everyone should give the same amount. Secondly, it is in Norway’s interest, as a small country outside the EU, to be a consistent and ready-to-pay defender of the global institutions working for peaceful and sustainable development. The budget position continues the broad lines of aid policy there has been broad political agreement in recent years, and through the budgetary agreement we have achieved some important adjustments, such as the prioritisation of non-governmental organisations and work for democracy and human rights. These are important priorities left will still fight for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e785	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e788	The Centre and the Workers' Party are essentially in agreement on foreign policy, and it is not as a result of a budgetary settlement, but on the basis of common positions and values in this area of our political activity. Our agreement also applies to active assistance to those countries that are now applying for membership of the EU. In this regard, let me quote a few lines from a comment we have in the Committee's setting: ‘These members will emphasise the importance of stability and the further development of democracy and the building of well-being in Europe, and have noted with satisfaction that the Government is taking active co-responsibility for the stability policy of the enlargement of the EU.’.» Now both the representative Sponheim and I are against Norwegian membership of the EU, but there are sometimes certain cross-thinking points in relation to this. The representative Sponheim is, unlike me, the leader of his party. For my part, I can avoid the luxury of having private perceptions of this. I therefore ask whether his party supports this work towards the candidate countries solely in the interests of these countries, or whether he believes that a larger EU, a stable EU and a developing EU are also important for Norway both in terms of security and economic terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e801	I am pleased to share my position on the European Union case with the representative of Mr Engretsen. I think in a rough division we both belong to the moderate no-people who see that there are arguments on the other side too, but insist that there is an overweight of no-arguments. It's just in this waters of plus/minus 10 pst. by the Norwegian people that the crucial EU debates may take place in the future, and I look forward to having many interesting exchanges with the representative of the UK about this difficult dilemma for our country and our people. I would also like to stress that even though I am a party leader, I and the Engretsen – who voiced with a little wound that he might have ambitions about the same in his party once – should be able to share the view that the new, fragile democracies in Eastern Europe who want to participate in major European projects should have our support. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has recently been travelling in some of these countries, and it is quite clear that it is essential for these countries to be part of the EU, perhaps not just for economic reasons, but so much so that countries can participate and get a guarantee of democratic development, development in important areas such as human rights, etc. It is clear to the Left that what is good for these countries, not only in terms of democracy and human rights, but also in terms of economic development, must also be good for Norway and Europe as such. That is why it is important for us that we contribute in every way to support the enlargement process that is taking place, when the countries themselves want it to be a sure foothold for good development. It is fully possible to combine it with the no-position that I have for Norway in terms of membership, and which I think I share in many ways with the representative, Mr Engretsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e810	Let me first correct a misunderstanding. The representative is an excellent leader of the Akershu Labour Party, who has relatively many members, without me saying anything about the Left in that context. Otherwise, I listened with interest to the posts of the representative Sponheim and was very pleased with what the representative said about the United Nations system. Norwegian aid policy has increasingly strengthened Norway's role through more coordinated efforts and the values we have conveyed to the United Nations system. I also want to pay tribute to Hilde Frafjord Johnson for the work she did to strengthen the multilateral role of Norwegian aid in this reply to Sponheim. So to the volunteer organizations. Time and again today – not necessarily from the representative Sponheim – we have got a false picture of the situation of the voluntary organisations. They have seen strong increases over many years, and there is also an increase in resource availability from 2000 to 2001. But I must also ask the representative Sponheim: is it not the case that, as a general principle, we must look at the objective of our assistance? Where's that need? What projects should we have? What countries and what groups should we cooperate with? Is it not the case that we then need to find out which actors are best placed to carry out the work of putting these projects into practice – not doing the opposite: starting by pointing out the actors to see if we have any projects to allocate them? In this picture, the large Norwegian — and not least the small — voluntary organisations have been very competitive, if it is possible to use that expression in this context. They've done a formidable job, a real job, and I think they're still going to do that. But is it not the objective of aid that is most important, not the actors that we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e819	It was in no way my intention to create difficulties for the representative, Mr. Engretsen, by expressing that I could understand an indication of a level of ambition. I think the Engretsen is a participant in a party where it is allowed to express some ambitions without having significant consequences. To the question from the representative Nybakk, I would say that I essentially agree with the idea she is expressing here. It is through the UN and multilateral programmes and organisations that we are essentially going to do our aid work. It is the main providers of aid to combat poverty and to lift the poorest in the poor countries so that they can capture the main flows that will create democratic development and market economy and help them to stand on their own feet. But I think it is absolutely vital to find the good balance between these and the many voluntary organizations, because they represent a retail stage and a meeting point in many countries that one cannot reach through the big systems. That's why it's important to find the good balance. And then there will be a debate about just where the marginal balance is going to go. That's clearly the goal is important. To combat poverty, we need to use as many instruments as we can to achieve these objectives. But I think we should recognise that the intermediaries can also be important targets in such a context. Many organisations definitely have a contact network that requires us to play on and maintain, even in periods when it may be important for these organisations to live without perhaps playing the most important role in our overall aid policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e828	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e831	The Ministry of Foreign Affairs' budget is mainly linked to official development aid, amounting to DKK 12.3 billion of the total amount of 15 billion. However, in addition to development assistance, other important foreign policy areas are also to be addressed. That is why I am pleased that there is a great deal of agreement on the Government's draft budgetary framework for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. As I explained in the Stortinget on 14 November, from 1 January 2001, membership of the Security Council will be at the heart of the government's work and will probably shape the foreign policy debate here at home. The Ministry is now in the final phase of preparation for the two-year membership period, a period which will naturally have an impact on the work and resource situation of the EEAS in these two years. As stated in the statement on 14 November, the Government is in the process of assessing the economic and administrative consequences of membership, including: in view of the penalty committee that Norway will have to lead. The government will therefore return to the Stortinget early in the New Year with the financial consequences of membership. I have noticed that the majority of the committees underline the importance of a strong commitment to assist countries in Central Europe and Eastern Europe in the transition to democracy and the market economy as well as various environmental measures. I share the Committee's views. Norway has a clear commitment to take co-responsibility for development, peace and stability in Europe, through the EU enlargement process. It is also in the Norwegian interest to strengthen and develop relations with future EU Member States. We have therefore set up a separate action plan to contribute to the adaptation of countries to EU and EEA membership. This effort will also cover the Baltic countries. The action plan shall be followed up by projects, primarily based on their own priorities, the assessments of the EU Commission and Norwegian interests and experience. The framework agreement for nuclear security cooperation with Russia will be a priority area when the government's work in our neighbourhoods in the north is to be put to work. It is important to ensure the environment in these resource-rich areas. There are a wide range of concrete projects to be implemented in cooperation with the Russian authorities in 2001. Some of these relate to the clean-up of spent nuclear fuel and radioactive waste in north-west Russia, the safety measures of the nuclear power plants in the Kola and Leningrad counties, and the monitoring of radioactive discharges around the fatal submarine “Course”. Cooperation programmes with Central and Eastern Europe will also have a high priority next year. The Government will substantially step up the health plan for the Barents region with particular emphasis on the control of communicable diseases in the Baltic Sea region. The government attaches great importance to continuing to maintain a high level of assistance to south-east Europe. After a decade of conflict, the countries of the region need comprehensive assistance to implement the necessary reforms in order to integrate into a broad and committed European cooperation. Priority should be given to assisting the transition to democratic governance and the market economy, as well as institution building. The Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe will continue to provide the framework for assistance to the region. This cooperation has reached agreement on the steps that the countries of the region need to take in order to integrate into Europe, while coordinating different priority projects. Norway has taken on an important role in this cooperation through the Presidency of the Security Board. A peaceful revolution in Yugoslavia is probably the single event that will be of the greatest importance for development in the region. Therefore, in addition to assistance to Kosovo, the other parts of Serbia will also be high on the Government’s priority list. Norway actively supports several important peace and reconciliation processes. Efforts in this area are being increased in line with the Government’s priorities. We want to contribute to the prevention of conflicts and to assist the parties in achieving sustainable policy solutions. Norway shall continue to be a major contributor in the humanitarian field. It is equally important to look at measures that can prevent and prevent crises, conflicts and violations of human rights. Through our humanitarian efforts, we also want to support policy solutions to the conflicts that are just creating humanitarian emergencies. I also want to say that cultural cooperation and cross-border contact are important areas of action for Norway. This is also important for our own cultural and social development. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with other departments concerned, has therefore taken the initiative to draw up an action plan in the field of foreign culture for 2001-2005. The aim of the plan is to develop effective tools to make the international efforts of the department visible and coordinate, with particular emphasis on Europe. I'm glad that the committee majority supports the government's efforts in this area. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the post that Fridtjof Frank Gundersen made. I think it went across all bounds. And I have to take a complete distance from the unminded attack that came at the Norwegian Foreign Service, Norwegian non-governmental organisations and Norwegian business, which he believes promotes his own interests when they work for and support a high level of Norwegian development assistance. After hearing his view of the situation of the Palestinian population, I would say that Norwegian foreign service and Norwegian non-governmental organisations hold a standard that he never gets close to. Fridtjof Frank Gundersen could try to be Palestinian for a day, for example. in the city of Gaza. If he had had a job at all, he had to stand up in the middle of the night to travel to this job, stand in line for hours to get across the border and return late in the evening after waiting for hours on the way back. Such is the everyday life of thousands of people, people without citizenship, barred within it as any Northman would characterize as a pure hell. It is in this tragic reality Norwegian money is used and Norwegian personnel are working, something that Fridtjof Frank Gundersen hassles from this pulpit. I am aware that you can say what you want and have the opinions you want, but when a representative of the second largest party of Stortinget goes to such attacks on the Norwegian foreign service and Norwegian staff abroad, you cannot ignore it on the grounds that it comes from a party from which we have become used to hearing a lot strangely from. Fortunately, I've never waited to listen to such a thing, and I'm never going to friend myself to listen to such a thing. I think it's time we protested when such things are publicly expressed by this pulpit. I wanted to say that in the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e861	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e864	With regard to the Minister of Foreign Affairs' posts, I would like to say that I have not spoken anything about the Palestinian people. It was a very innocuous post from his side. I think he misunderstood me. I mentioned a Norwegian National Aid brochure for use by Norwegian schoolchildren, and I mentioned new textbooks published by the Palestinian self-government authorities that paint a unilaterally negative and hateful picture of the people of Israel. I believe that such publications are not suitable for creating peace, and that the Norwegian Government should also understand this. With regard to this attack, I should have joined so-called non-governmental organisations and Norwegian foreign service, I do not understand why exactly they are so hairy. Farmers and fishermen and anyone, typographers – everyone fights for their wages, their positions, their prestige in this country. Why in the world would it be such a gross insult to express this very thing about foreign service? It's not a religious organization.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e871	I think Fridjof Frank Gundersen should go through his own post and see that he wasn't just talking about a brochure published by an organization. In this regard, he said that he has not brought any attack on anyone, and showed that all other groups, such as typographers and farmers, were indeed under attack, we are aware of the fact that in the case of the Advance Party, there can be unsubstantiated attacks on a large number of groups. Everything has been taken into account from Samer to Lone Mothers, Slabbags and whatever it may be, all kinds of groups in Norwegian society, and now it also includes Norwegian voluntary organisations, foreign service and Norwegian business, who scour Norwegian development aid, and that is why they are in favour of it. That's what I'm responding to. That is not to say, in my opinion. I am aware that you can say what you want from this pulpit, but I think it should be a certain limit to what it is possible to impose on people who make an excellent effort for Norway, but not least for oppressed and poor people in large parts of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e878	As indicated in the setting, there is a high degree of consensus within the Foreign Administration, Programme Area 02. The consensus is also expressed in the areas specifically addressed by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, namely the strong focus on the challenges of Central and Eastern Europe, which is also supported by the Christian People's Party, and also the initiative that the Government has now taken in the field of cultural exchange and cultural engagement in the context of foreign policy. I would like to express my support for this important initiative. I think it has meaning for Norwegian culture abroad, for how we present ourselves abroad, but it can also give us important and valuable impulses. In any case, this is part of an important bridge construction between nations and peoples. The Minister of Foreign Affairs also said that the Government supports several peace and reconciliation processes around it. To this end, I would like to refer to a comment by the majority of the Committee, all except the Advancement Party and the Right, which indicates that various peace organisations make significant contributions to international diplomatic activities and public opinion in terms of democracy, justice and human rights. Norway’s Peace Council and other peace and reconciliation organisations have been at the heart of this work, and the majority ask the Government to consider basic support for such peace organisations in order to better monitor their projects. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether it is already possible to indicate whether the Government has the opportunity to follow up and establish such basic support.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e890	It is not possible for me to say anything more specific about it now. We've noticed what's in the setting. I guess I could say that we basically don't have anything against it, and we have to work on it towards the next budget. But there's nothing more concrete to say about it right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e896	I would like to start from a look-up in our country on 25 October this year, where it is said that while Norway has never given more dollars in aid, imports of goods from the world's poorest country are falling. Last year, the imports of u-lands fell by 10 pst. As if not enough, figures from the Ministry of Finance show that in the first half of this year goods from developing countries have an average of over four times as high customs loads as goods from the EU and the United States. Despite, as it says in the paper, that under 12 pst. Of Norwegian imports from developing countries, imports from the poorest countries represented 41 pst. of Norwegian customs duties revenue in the first half of the year. This must also worry the Government. When I choose to challenge the Minister for Foreign Affairs, it's of course because this involves different departments. With experience from the central government, where there was a conflict between different departments to find good solutions for the poorest countries, I am excited about the extent to which some clearer positions have been taken in this government. It is clear from government budget proposals that the government says it will give priority to measures to improve market access for developing countries’ products. But then it may – of course to a certain extent – be going to competition with Norwegian products. However, we just have to accept that and view it as part of the important aid to the poorest countries. The head of the U.S. Committee on Trade in Goods said in Our Country resolution that the Norwegian authorities "must take the challenge and give real market access to agricultural products from the south". How will the Government change the negative figures for the poorest countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e905	I'm glad that the question is raised. That is an important question, because it is clear that trade and investment are as important as assistance. We aim to increase imports from the poorest countries. We have signaled, among other things: in connection with our efforts to launch a new, wide-ranging WTO round that we are in favour of a completely different trade regime for the poorest countries, so here I think we are at least in line in principle. We work internationally to make other countries do the same. As for the numbers that were pointed at here, I think you should look at the countries that you're talking about. What I was talking about now is the poorest countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e912	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e915	Let me first say that I am pleased that we have adopted an aid budget that significantly strengthens our international solidarity work. A rich country that Norway can afford to invest in the fight against poverty. We can afford to stand up to them who every day have to fight a fight to get their children their food. International solidarity is about caring. It's about taking moral responsibility through concrete actions. An increase of 14 pst. in our aid budget and an increase of SEK 1.5 billion in the fight against poverty show that the Government takes this responsibility seriously. It's also in our own interest to do this. Of course, the government will follow up the budgetary agreement with the provision of a development fund that can be used for specific development purposes in poor countries. We're going to keep pace with the investigation of this fund. In the financial debate, the Progress Party categorically stated that aid is of no use. That's wrong. Assistance is beneficial. The World Bank argues that Norwegian aid is a very effective contribution to poverty reduction. We're happy about that. But the starting point will, of course, be the responsibility that the countries themselves have to assume. No donor can take over this responsibility. What we can and must do is to support our own efforts. The aim is to make assistance redundant, but many countries will continue to need assistance for a long time. Therefore, we will continue to contribute to building up the country's own capacity to combat poverty. The aid has the greatest effect in countries with good steering sets. Good governance promotes development. That is why we must make demands on our countries of cooperation. When necessary, we have to be ready to put our foot down. We did it in the case of Zimbabwe, and we might have to do it again. This is not just about sending a clear signal to a regime that does not respect democratic rules. In countries where it is impossible to achieve improvements in the governance and fight against corruption, it is very difficult to contribute to sustainable poverty reduction. We are now preparing a broad assessment of how our assistance should be structured in relation to the individual co-operation countries. We want to focus assistance on those countries and areas where it will be most poverty-reducing. At the same time, we must also help people who are suffering ashore with the systems of government that we dislike. Such balances will be a major factor in the development policy statement I want to give the Greatest Spring. Bad governance is not always due to evil will. This is also a question of obsolete, inefficient and resource-poor management institutions, poorly functioning democratic institutions and a judicial system that often lacks sufficient competence. It is a core task for assistance to help strengthen the capacity of countries to improve their governance. We can contribute with competence, experience, training support and support for the necessary infrastructure. Training of judges will strengthen legal certainty. Strengthening the media will contribute to more active and open societal debate. The majority in this room agree with the Government that more assistance is needed and appropriate. But a growth in the aid budget of SEK 1.5 billion is demanding. We have to be focused on our efforts. We have to think about efficiency. We have to work smarter. We have to think of results. GAVI, the Global Vaccine Initiative, is an example of targeted, effective efforts, a good partnership to ensure children’s health. Development cooperation will have the greatest effect if we succeed in good international coordination. We have to think about participation. We must think ‘ownership’ of the development processes in both donor and recipient countries. In the international organisations, developing countries themselves may participate and influence decisions themselves. This is why the Government is involved in the draft government budget to strengthen cooperation with multilateral organisations. Every year, Norway has placed great emphasis on multilateral solutions. That is why we will also focus more strongly on the United Nations system in development cooperation. We will cooperate with the international organisations that are adaptable, show action and have confidence in our countries of cooperation. We have to make demands, but at the same time we will also be ready to contribute. Norway shall appear as a credible partner of the World Organisation. It is equally important to improve the quality of our bilateral assistance. That is why we want to strengthen cooperation with other bilateral donors. I attach great importance to continuing cooperation with the other Nordic countries and within the Utstein Group. Utstein-cooperation, which my predecessors in a cost-effective way took the initiative, is useful. Together with some of the largest bilateral donors, the United Kingdom, Germany and the Netherlands, we improve coordination in close cooperation with the recipient countries. I view cooperation with the voluntary organisations as very valuable, both as channels of assistance and because they contribute to greater proximity between each of us and the challenges in poor countries. In line with the setting up of the Committee, the Government will take the initiative quickly to carry out an independent evaluation of the impact of the assistance channelled through the voluntary organisations. The overall guidelines for support will therefore be adjusted in this context only to ensure greater clarity on the different requirements for participation in humanitarian aid and long-term development actions. I will also be allowed to comment on the debate that has taken place here on the role of voluntary organisations. I have done so in part, but I would also like to stress that the situation is that the part of the assistance we channel through these organisations has increased sharply over the 1990s. The budget also reflects a priority which means that these organisations will play a very important role in the next year's work, and the funds we channel through these organisations will increase. I welcome the Committee's support for the Government's proposal for the conversion and simplification of business arrangements. This will create a clearer role-sharing and provide a more effective and holistic focus on industrial development in Norwegian development cooperation. At the same time, the changes will facilitate increased participation by Norwegian industry in this work. Africa is now in the midst of a development disaster of unimaginable dimensions. In a belt in southern Africa is more than 20 pst. by the adult population infected by HIV. The AIDS epidemic is eradicating large segments of the population. The workforce, farmers, industrial workers, skilled and unskilled – all – are affected. Children remain without parents, older people without a family network and key institutions without professional competence. And women are now also exposed to AIDS in connection with sexual assault. The fight to improve the situation of women and to give them control over their own lives must therefore be carried out with great force even in the context of AIDS. Here at home media provide thorough documentation on the HIV/AIDS epidemic. Consciousness is increasing, and we are forced to deal with this huge challenge. The government will make the fight against HIV/AIDS a major factor in its development cooperation. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus in Stortinget on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e955	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e958	The Minister for Development was very brief in his speech on the conversion of business systems. There was a correspondence and also a consultation within the Committee on the transfer of loan portfolios from NORAD to NORFUND, which provided a clarification, but also a clear framework for that transfer. And there is a clear majority behind the framework: firstly, that the poverty orientation of business systems should not be weakened, and secondly, that there should not be an increased commitment to assistance. Now the Government’s proposal in the budget proposal was to raise the income limit per capita, so that even higher middle-income countries were included in the business system. Such an approach will, of course, lead to a weakening of poverty orientation, and therefore cannot be in line with what the majority here provided for. I would like the Minister of Development to confirm that the income limit for business schemes will not be changed as a result of this framework by the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e965	As I said, with regard to changes in business systems, I am very pleased that we agree on the proposed amendments and simplifications. These arrangements will increase impact. They will also help more companies to cooperate with us through these schemes. To date, it has almost been necessary to be a professor of business arrangements in order to understand these arrangements. We want to get away from that. With regard to poverty orientation and the profile also on this part of the instrument of development, we are fully in line here, and there is a guideline on the part of the authorities that we want to maintain. When it comes to the question of bonding, it's like we're working on increasing the decoupling of aid internationally, and that line will, of course, be firm. With regard to the per capita limit change, it will bring our system into line with arrangements in countries where it is natural to compare us with, and also with similar arrangements in multilateral financial institutions. It is not possible to cooperate with, for example, because of the inclusion of some new countries in the list of countries. weakens the poverty profile. Unfortunately, there is enough poverty to overcome, even in countries that can now be considered below a slightly increased per capita threshold. However, the practice of working in this area will be largely firm, and so do our expectations of poverty orientation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e974	In an article in Today's Business on May 23rd this year, Secretary of State Vidar Ovesen showed for calculations from NORAD, where it is estimated that 40 p.m. of the total appropriations for assistance in 1995 and 1996 were used for the purchase of goods and services produced in Norway. This seems disturbing, in the SV's opinion. The aim must, of course, be to get the most out of the aid funds directly to combat poverty. Does the Minister for Assistance have any idea of how the distribution of funds is in the current aid budget, and does the Minister for Assistance see it as an objective to reduce the share of funds going back to Norway? I am also interested in hearing whether the Minister for Development has any view on the distribution of resources in particular in the field of nutrition. Are many of these funds going back to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e983	With regard to the figures referred in an article in the paper earlier this year, in May, they refer to, as far as I can remember, some specific surveys that have been done some years ago, so they probably aren't completely representative of the current situation. There is no objective in itself for aid crowns to return to Norwegian actors. On the contrary, it is an objective to contribute to poverty reduction. We know that e.g. making use of local actors, including business actors, in the countries with which we cooperate, contribute to increasing poverty reduction. Nor is it an end in itself that we should not cooperate, for example. with Norwegian business operators where they can make a good effort. Of course, where the purchase of Norwegian goods and services is the most suitable to achieve a specific objective of poverty reduction, this must also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e990	Just one clarification from my side. When the Government of the Proposition proposes to raise the income limit of the business schemes from US$3035 to US$5295, it means that the so-called higher middle-income countries are now included in the scheme, i.e. Mexico, Brazil and Chile, to mention someone. Does the Council of State believe that including them in the business systems is consistent with what is the majority view, namely that poverty orientation within business systems should not be weakened?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e995	To repeat and clarify what I said instead in this area: yes, I confirm it. We believe that poverty orientation should not be weakened. On the contrary, all the instruments we have in the field of aid are intended to contribute to the overall objective of reducing poverty, including the activities of NORFUND.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e1001	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e1004	The government budget for next year has a clear profile, which shows the willingness to take co-responsibility and show international solidarity. These are clear value choices from the Government, and the profile is equally clear even after the budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties. The agreement confirms the main differences in Norwegian policy. This is also evident in foreign policy. In contrast to the Progress Party, we believe, and the majority, that solidarity and the requirements for distribution cannot stop at the borders of Norway. In my speech, I would like to focus on three important elements of Norway's international commitment: European policy, our relationship with Russia and solidarity with the world's poorest. These three elements are central to the budget for next year. Let me start with European policy. Europe's future is also Norway's future. Our political, security and economic interests are closely and directly linked to Europe. Europe is in a process of transformation that is likely to be lacking in history. Blocking and contrasting have been replaced by cooperation, and in these days an important EU meeting is taking place in Nice. It is expected that a new treaty will be agreed here, and the necessary basis will be laid for accepting new Member States. EU enlargement will change the European map. In a few years’ time, the EU may include most European countries. Because Norway is dependent on stable development in Europe, it is important that we support the enlargement process. The government of Stoltenberg shows that it wants to take active co-responsibility for the stability policy of the enlargement of the EU and does so through an action plan in relation to the candidate countries. In this context, the number of committees highlights the importance of strengthening support for the Baltic countries. The Labour Party wants Norway’s cooperation with Russia to be a priority task. Hardly anywhere in the world, we find a wealth gap between the one we have across the border between our two countries. We can't settle for this. The budget provides for a stepping up of support to Central and Eastern Europe. An increase of 60 pst. shows that the Government holds the promises of a stronger effort, especially towards Russia. Policy towards Russia is an integral part of European policy. The EU is also stepping up its cooperation with Russia. We need to be active towards the EU to ensure that Norwegian priorities are included. Here, the follow-up to the northern dimension of the EU becomes very important. The fight against poverty must be at the top of our agenda. The budget represents a strong commitment to aid for the poorest in the world. An increase of DKK 1.5 billion for assistance is – measured in dollars – a record increase from one year to the next. No more Norwegian aid has ever been granted. We are concrete – we put children and young people first. Next year, 200 million will go. kr to the global vaccine alliance. For the next five years, we're going to spend a total of $1 billion on vaccination and better health for the world's poorest children, children who would die without our concrete efforts. All Norwegian children are vaccinated – 30 million children in the poor world are not vaccinated, and 3 million of them will die every year of diseases they could be protected from. Today it is a week since the World AIDS Day was marked. 12 million children have become orphans because of the AIDS epidemic. In 2010, it is now estimated that this number will have increased to 44 million children. Health professionals and teachers die out, and the workplaces become standing empty. Society is in danger of being destroyed. This is a social, economic and political disaster, but above all it is also a human tragedy. All forces must be mobilised and engaged in the fight against this deadly disease. This budget's marked strengthening of efforts for children's health and the fight against HIV and AIDS are examples of good and concrete long-term support for the poorest.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e1027	I began a previous speech today to note that in debates like this, almost everyone gathers about common ground, with the exception of the Progress Party. I did not know that I would be as truthful as I could see after hearing what the Progress Party has said during the day, partly in connection with the budget and the priorities of the budget. Worse still, the Progress Party has been attacked by Norwegian foreign service, Norwegian voluntary organizations, almost everyone, and perhaps the worst thing that the Progress Party today has given us its support for some of the worst dictatorships that we have seen around the world. It was Franco's Spain and Pinochet's Chile. Both of them were considered by the Advance Party to be rescuers for their countries. Asylum seekers are seen as convenience refugees who should go home and be with and build the country, the ones they have fled from, for example. Chile. The many thousands of Chileans who came to Norway are, in the Progress Party, just eyes of convenience refugees who should have retreated. And everyone else knows what kind of system it was they had to go back to. There was a terrorist regime of the worst variety, which no one, as far as I can see today, will defend – perhaps apart from the Progress Party and those who actively support the regime in Chile. Now the Progress Party is not in place here because they are active in other halls in the city today. But I think it's important that we from all other parties show that this is a policy that separates the Progress Party from everyone else. Today, the Progress Party is able to mark support for the military dictatorship in South Korea – precisely the day when Kim Dae Jung comes to Oslo to accept the Nobel Peace Prize, one that has known the dictatorship and totalitarian powers more on the body than anyone else, six times threatened by life and by a miracle are the mountains, 16 years in prison or house arrest – it is from the Communist regime or from the north, but most of all from its own regime in the south, the military regime, which the Progress Party supports wholeheartedly here today as rescuers for South Korea. I thought that just before the Nobel Peace Prize was awarded, we could mark this very thing with South Korea and Kim Dae Jung, and mark more clearly than we have done before, that the Progress Party is the only party that has clearly and unequivocally and unreturnedly supported dictatorship and abuse against democracy and freedom fighters worldwide. But first of all, the Progress Party is now marking it by giving them its unrelenting support for those who tried to kill him who will receive the Nobel Peace Prize in a few days' time. This selects more than any other Progress Party's special position in Norwegian politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e1036	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1097]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e1050	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1112]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e1064	Only a short post. SV has a comment in the position on this matter where we point out that we do not see it as natural that Norway should export defence material to Turkey with the human rights situation, the VAT that still characterises the country. SV believes that it is a very appropriate way to say that we do not accept their policy towards Kurds, that we do not accept the bombing of civilians in the border areas of Iran, that we do not accept the lack of freedom of expression or torture in Turkish prisons. A few days ago, the Foreign Affairs Committee had no opportunity to meet representatives of the Kurdistan National Congress. They could tell that during the recent Congress of the Kurdish Party of HADEP, the police intervened against a German-Kurdish politician who gave a greeting in Kurdish. The politician had to turn to German. Kurdish is still an illegal language in public contexts in Turkey. Norway has regretted the handling of co-sams and taters by the Norwegian authorities. Now let's not have to complain that Norway is not doing what we can to stop other countries' abuse of their minorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e1073	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1113]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e1087	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 1113]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e1101	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 1114]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e1109	We're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e1774	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Siri Frost Sterri on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 2 and 4, by Lisbet Ruggtvedt, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 3, from Lisbet Ruggtvedt on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left The President will first allow votes on non-framework minority proposals. Fridtjof Frank Gundersen – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e1791	We do not have a proposal of our own, since our proposal falls outside the framework and should therefore not be voted over. We will then vote against the vote I and the SV's and Right's proposals. In the case of the other Roman numerals, we will vote against II, VIII, XIII, XV and XVI.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e1798	It is then first voted on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to present a revised debt plan aimed at cancelling claims on disadvantaged middle-income countries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e1810	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for detailed arrangements to facilitate Norwegian non-governmental organisations to increase their activity vis-à-vis the EU/EEA, including the possibility of setting up an agency for Norwegian organisations in Brussels.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e1824	It shall now be votted over the frame area 4. There are alternative proposals from the Right and Socialist Left. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2. We vote first on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e3614	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e7165	We're going to vote first over II, VIII, XIII, XV and XVI. Here the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e7177	It's all over you. Here, too, the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e7188	The remaining Roman numerals are added over the remaining Roman numerals. It's III, IV, V, VI, VII, IX, X, XI, XII and XIV.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e7472	Fridtjof Frank Gundersen – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e7475	Another explanation of vote! We will vote in favour of the race. Item No 161, Chapter 70. 191, for cap. Item No. 192 and for Chapter. Item 195, 21st. I recommend that the Group of the Party of European Socialists vote against the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e7482	It's voted first over the cape. Item 161, heading 70, chap. 191, cap. Item 192, heading 71 and Chapter. Item 195, 21st.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e7491	It is voted over the remaining chapters and items. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e7535	Here the Progress Party has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-12-08.ana.ud1067e7551	There is no record.
