ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16-lower.ana.ud445e39	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Bastesen representatives 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will suggest that there will be no replication after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16-lower.ana.ud445e48	On behalf of the President-in-Office of the Council, Åse Wisløff Nilssen, I would like to make some of the majority's comments, which are also in line with the views of the Christian People's Party. In December 1999, the representatives of Hagen, Jensen and Søviknes presented proposals for tightening up several provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act. Amendments to the 11 paragraphs of the Foreign Affairs Act were proposed despite the amendment of eight of these paragraphs by the Act of 30 April 1999 and the immediate entry into force of the amendments to three of the paragraphs, while the changes to the remaining five paragraphs entered into force on 1 January this year. Clearly, for the amendments in Document No, the proposers have not received the changes that have occurred. 8:28 relates to the paragraphs as they stood before the Amending Act of 30 April 1999. This resulted in a little extra work to get it clean and correct. An ongoing assessment of immigration policy is important, but the majority of the Committee does not share the wish of the proposers to amend or tighten up the provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act now. The changes recently adopted must take time to work before a new review is necessary. Moreover, the majority do not share the view of the Progress Party that the situation is unsustainable and that austerity measures need to be implemented immediately. There is no wish for any dramatic conversion of Norwegian refugee and asylum policies in any of the other parties on the Stortinget. The proposed amendments cover the following areas: work permit and residence permit protection against the right to pursue asylum travel certificates for refugee and foreign passport expulsion identification punishment In connection with Ot.prp. No 17 for 1998-99 and Innst. O. No 42 for 1998-99 there was a thorough review of many of the paragraphs concerned. That's why only some of the areas in today's position are commented on, and then based on the comments of the majority, of which the Christian People's Party is part. Proposalers point out that it is important to maintain the requirement for maintenance and housing as immigration regulatory measures. The regulations already provide for conditions under which maintenance and housing must be ensured for the period during which the application for a residence permit is to be applied for. The majority consider today’s rules to be sufficient and therefore unnecessary. Nor is there any desire to tighten the conditions for family reunification in general by amending the law. The definition of ‘nearest family members’, which we find in Section 23 of the Foreign Regulation, includes those who naturally belong to the concept and should remain unchanged. On the other hand, an overall committee has pointed to the need for different measures, including legislative changes that can counteract coercive drug use and bigamy. These are problems that exist in Norwegian society, which despite prohibitions have not been able to prevent satisfactorily. The Committee considers the requirement of family reunification to be a central criterion for combating both coercive poisons and bigami and asks for an appropriate assessment. A wide range of measures may be needed to address these issues. The proposers believe that it should be tightened up on the possibility of obtaining a humanitarian residence permit following a refusal to apply for asylum, as they consider that a number of asylum seekers do not have a real asylum basis. However, the majority of the Committee sees no reason to change the wording of Section 15, as it is up to the authorities to decide whether the foreigner has reason to fear persecution and thus needs protection. It is not the subjective fear of the foreigner that is taken into account here, as the proposers seem to indicate. The Ministry has stated that humanitarian practice on residence permits is under assessment. Furthermore, the Government will carry out a general review of the ‘strong human interests’ of the Foreign Affairs Act, to see if adjustments are needed. It is primarily for foreigners who have applied for asylum without fulfilling the terms of the Refugee Convention that are granted authorisation, because ‘strong human considerations’ speak for it. The Committee asks the Government, in the context of the next year’s budget proposal, to inform the Storting of any changes in practice in terms of the terms ‘humanitarian basis’, ‘strong human interests’ and ‘family reunification’. In the case of asylum cases, an overall committee believes that shorter processing times must be an objective, and we expect positive results from actions undertaken. The majority of the Committee shall take the view that a refugee per year shall: the definition has a real need for protection and therefore the proposed change cannot give any effect to that provision. In addition, requiring legal residence would be contrary to the Refugee Convention. But there is a consensus that a strict and consistent policy must be pursued towards those who are trying to stay on false premises. The fight against illegal immigration/human smuggling and the detection of false identity must be given priority. The majority see the challenge of providing false identity, but the application must be dealt with in any case. Where the correct identity is brought to light, a real need for protection must go ahead of repatriation to a possible persecution, in line with international conventions that have ratified Norway. In the view of the proposers, the expulsion of foreign citizens must be tightened up so that Norwegian social interests are clearly ahead of the concern of the foreigner and any family. The majority of the Committee does not support the proposal of the Progress Party to raise the ban on expulsion due to criminal offences from a three-month to six-month penalty framework. This would mean that it would take more than today to be able to expel a foreigner. The principle underlying today’s rules on the restriction of the longer residence of a foreigner in Norway is important. Today's grounds for expulsion are strictly practised, and it is not desirable to tighten up the wording of today's provision, as the rule is practised in a manner agreed by the majority. At the same time, it is appropriate to point out that our obligations under international law, including: the right to respect for family life resulting from EMK Art 8, sets limits on the degree of strict expulsion practices that can be carried out. The proposers have also proposed changes to Section 47, which refers to criminal reactions that can be imposed under the Foreign Affairs Act, and points out that it is a sleeping paragraph. The Committee considers that there may be a need to look at practices related to infringements of the Foreign Affairs Act, such as: the extent to which offences lead to criminal offences or administrative responses. It is therefore a wish for the Government to return to Stortinget with an appropriate briefing on how to handle a breach of the Foreign Affairs Act, including on how often charges are made. The majority of the Committee – all minus the Advance Party – does not wish to remove the requirement of ‘general interest’ in order to prosecute. It is important that violations of the Foreign Affairs Act in general should have consequences. However, in some cases, an administrative response in the form of a refusal of residence or expulsion may be equally practical. The principle of public policy may take greater account of the specificities of the infringement. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16-lower.ana.ud445e126	The representative of Mr Marthinsen, on behalf of the rapporteur, gave a good and thorough review of the position of the Judicial Committee on Document No. the 8th proposal of the Progress Party on the tightening of the Foreign Affairs Act. As the Workers' Party shares his conclusion on all points, I do not see the need for a detailed argument in our own words as to why we reject the individual legislative amendments. At the same time we have for approx. A year ago, here in Stortinget eight of the eleven paragraphs of the Progress Party want changes in – I refer here to the treatment of Ot.prp. No 17 for 1998-99 – for which reference is made in particular to the presentation by the representative Marthinsen. Although it is important to keep abroad legislation under review, we as legislators should give time for recent legislation to work before re- debate. Content of Document No However, the 8 proposal gives me reason to believe that the proposalers – perhaps a little surprising when one sees who it is – have not registered the last year’s review of the Foreign Affairs Act and the decisions that were then taken. The paragraphs that were not assessed in the treatment of the law last year are Sections 8, 15 and 47. Here I find reason to repeat, or complement with our reasons the basis for rejecting the proposals. Paragraph 8 applies to the conditions of a work permit and residence permit. Here we believe that the proposal is unnecessary, as the regulations in force today already provide for maintenance and housing to be secured for the period for which the application for a residence permit under Section 8 applies. The Labour Party also considers that there is no need to change the conditions of residence in the same paragraph by changing them from today’s ‘strong human interests’ and ‘special connection to the kingdom’ to ‘particularly strong human interests’ and ‘especially strong ties to the kingdom’. Today's legal text expresses a strict assessment, and it is reported from the Ministry that the criteria as they are designed are strict and have worked well in the nine years that they have had the rules. I am not surprised that the Progress Party uses legislative proposals as a political mark based on vision, without any further review. However, I am a little surprised that the Right leans on the same carousel. Is it to sneak up closer to the Progress Party? What does the accumulation of adjectives in legislative proposals mean for the design of the criteria? However, the entire Committee also points out the clear road, as if new guidelines were given on the embellishment of asylum criteria from January 1998. The Ministry has stated that humanitarian practices are also under assessment, and that the Government will carry out a general review of what we put into the concept of ‘strong human interests’ in the Foreign Affairs Act, to see if there is a need for adjustments. The Judicial Committee has stressed the need for a policy change in this area to be submitted to the Stortinget, and in this respect the Committee has asked the Government, in the context of the next year's budget proposal, to inform the Storting of any changes in practice regarding humanitarian and family reunification. I believe that this must be the necessary basis for discussing changes to the law. Nor does the Labour Party believe that the wording of Section 15 should be amended. Norway has an obligation to decide whether an asylum seeker has reason to fear persecution and thus needs protection. Each applicant shall be assessed in a subsidiary manner on the basis of the possible granting of residence on a humanitarian basis, where law and regulation provide criteria. A discretionary decision to make such an assessment would weaken legal certainty introduced into the law. The Labour Party believes that violations of the Foreign Affairs Act should have consequences and asks the Government to brief the Government on how to enforce violations of the Foreign Affairs Act, for example. the extent to which offences result in criminal or administrative addendums. We believe that the terms of the prosecution should be retained for reasons of general interest and therefore oppose amending Section 47 of the Act. For the other amendments, I refer, as I have said, to Mr Marthinsen's presentation. However, I would also like to comment on more general issues raised in this case. With regard to the total number of asylum seekers and refugees coming to Norway, we have to expect annual fluctuations. When the Progress Party points to the large increase in 1999, it has, among other things, its cause in the war in Kosovo. I'll leave the discussion about it. The only fixed number we can calculate is the number of quota refugees per. years in which the majority here in the hall believes the target number should be 1500. I would like to take this opportunity to stress our commitment to the quota refugees and to the international United Nations system, also in view of the fact that perhaps these types of refugees are the most difficult. It seems a little strange to me that you haven't been able to follow up the measurement in relation to the large number of refugees who are in camps around. As I said, we must expect fluctuations in the number of asylum seekers. A fixed limit here could break our international obligations. But then we also have to have a procedural system that can adapt to fluctuations so that the processing time does not become disproportionately long, which means both unnecessary costs and difficulties for the individual. I expect the Government to actively contribute to the shortening of today's processing time, including: with background to increased appropriations by Stortinget. We have adopted changes here in the Storting, which are intended to enable labour to be recruited from outside the EEA territory, and we are in our opinion that the Government will continue to have this under ongoing review if further adjustments are needed. But I would warn against mixing this with guidelines for our refugee and asylum policy, considering that most or all asylum seekers are economic refugees. A tightening of the conditions for humanitarian residence so as to liberalise labour immigration has no natural context, so that these are all-round consensual groups. I believe that such a short cut could affect the legal certainty of those who are asylum seekers and not labour immigrants. With regard to the reference to generous schemes and signals on a liberal practice as the basis for asylum seekers coming to Norway, I believe that both the central government and the promotion of Norwegian refugee and asylum policy, in particular in the last two years, from each point of view, have provided asylum seekers with unrealistic ideas. Norwegian refugee and asylum policies are decided nationally on the basis of our international commitments. But at the same time, we can't be unaffected by the surroundings around us. And as I have said before, over time we cannot have a refugee and asylum policy that deviates significantly from our neighbouring country, not to say the rest of Europe, leads. We therefore believe that it is necessary, for example, to do so. for the group of Iraqi asylum seekers, who do not need protection, a temporary residence permit without the right to family reunification shall be granted, in line with the guidelines applicable in Denmark. My last element concerns the abuse of the asylum institute, and above all human trafficking. We will counter this and respond to it both nationally and through international cooperation. But we're going to do it in a way that sets the spotlight on the backers, and that places them in charge, not by focusing on the group of refugees and asylum seekers in a negative way in general, or on individuals who are in a difficult position and who may have been given unrealistic hopes. I expect that at a later stage we will also have the opportunity to discuss, among other things. the criteria for humanitarian stay and family reunification when the Government returns with a briefing to the Storting in the budget proposal for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16-lower.ana.ud445e164	As was said in the case-rapporteur’s speech, we, as proposers, have put forward a tightening of the foreign law so that it is possible to limit the presence of refugees in Norway and make practice more stringent. That is why several of these amendments have been tabled. I note that there is still a disagreement between the Advancement Party on the one hand and all other parties on the other, with the exception of a few paragraphs on the Right. We had hoped that the experience, which has shown that there has been a quite significant proportion of asylum seekers in Norway where more and more reports suggest that very many are, in reality, economic refugees and not refugees under the refugee convention, would lead to a strengthening and tightening up, as happens in other countries, for example. in Denmark, where a completely different practice has been implemented than in Norway. Here it's not just the wording of the paragraphs that's crucial. In fact, it is the practice of the foreign authorities, of course according to regulations and instructions of the Government. Vidar Bjørnstad claims that we – and the three former government parties – have created unrealistic hopes, because we allowed ourselves, as a political party, to fight against the embellishment of the practices of the previous government. It does mean, in reality, that Vidar Bjørnstad and the Workers' Party have the attitude that political parties should preferably not be allowed to participate in and express political views. When we deeply disagree with the Government and the majority, it is our duty as a party – a relatively significant party in Norway – to express our views without being confronted with the kind of argument that we have created false hopes. The fact that they're fakes is also wrong, because there are a lot of people who have shown that they eventually, if they're just persevering enough, get to stay in Norway even though they don't meet the criteria. If they just hold on and anchor and anchor and finally go to church asylum, eventually the majority in this room gets soft and forgets their principles, and then they finally say yes. It is this lack of consistent enforcement of Norwegian laws and regulations by the large majority that has created a legitimate hope of staying in Norway when you just come here, is persevering enough and uses all the tricks that are needed to soften the majority. Experience shows that we're right in this area. So Vidar Bjørnstad said that there had been an increase in 1999, but that it is due to Kosovo. As far as I recall, there were no Kosovo refugees in 1999, they came in 1998 and 1997, but it was Iraqis and Somalis who made up the high figure. When we ignore the great reception of Kosovo refugees, there has been an explosive development, and it continued at the beginning of the year. I have not been given the opportunity to check the development in the last two to three months. A few places the committee says they want to ask the government for an assessment and bring some work to the government, and you say you should get back to relationship. I think that is a pleasure, and it is perhaps possible to see a little hope that the naivety and the blueness of the majority will gradually become somewhat more limited. It is stated in the setting on page 3: ‘The Committee considers the family reunification maintenance obligation to be a central criterion for combating both coercive poisons and bigami and asks for an appropriate assessment.’ We've gone further. We will make demands not only for family reunion entertainment, but also for adequate housing. Very familiar have other countries such rules, and it is clear that if family reunification had been called for both entertainment and adequate housing, very, very many, perhaps the vast majority of forced marriages, arranged marriages, had not been possible. Where you have entertainment, it can be entertainment from an entire family, and so on, for example. a young Pakistani married her cousin or cousin, because at first they can live in the home of parents. Then they get full rights to assistance from the Norwegian welfare system. If it is required to be a suitable owner-occupancy for the person seeking family reunification with a spouse from another country, the forced marriages are automatically stopped where it is actually based on living at home with his or her own parents. Such a simple and straightforward rule would dramatically help the many Norwegian nationals and foreigners who have permanent, permanent residence in Norway and who are under severe pressure of forced marriage or arranged marriage. We think we have an obligation to try to help those who come into this situation, so that they escape this pressure. The amendment of the law that we've passed would have done that. Of course, we are pleased that the committee unanimously says that in terms of the maintenance obligation, one should evaluate it and get back to it, but this self-occupancy is equally important, because that is what would really prevent many of the forced marriages. We also think it is sad that the majority does not support the strengthening of humanitarian grounds. This is happening in more and more other countries, as far as I have registered – also that you should not be able to continue to operate with false identities unpunished or without any consequences. It is only when the use of false identity leads to consequences that it can end. In fact, through these amendments, we have put forward a much faster procedure. Today's proceedings may take a long time because an asylum seeker has a false identity for a long time and is exposed, he or she will find a new false identity, and it will be revealed, and then you will find another one, because this can be done when there is no consequence. That is why we have proposed that it should lead to consequences for the outcome of the examination of the application if you are not in favour of providing all the correct information at once. But we note that the majority will not be involved in any particular tightening and tightening practices. We think that's sad. It still means the possibility of significant problems in Norwegian society in the future, as integration policy is going so poorly and we still have negative consequences from this policy on refugees and asylum seekers and immigration in the overall area. Of course, we will continue our fight for a substantial change in this policy. With this I take up proposal No. 1 on behalf of the Right and Advance Party and Proposal No. 2 on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16-lower.ana.ud445e193	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16-lower.ana.ud445e196	I think it is very important if people are to have confidence in the refugee and asylum policy of the Grand Duchy, that we are always willing to adjust the policy when it turns out that there are concrete problems, while we recognise that we are part of an international society and it is difficult for Norway to have rules that are significantly different from, for example. our neighbouring countries. I think the Nordics are most concerned about helping refugees in distress. But it's very important that we do it in a way that helps those who need it most at first. There are first and foremost quota refugees, and they are the ones who meet the criteria for asylum. However, the group that has been most in growth in Norway has been the third group, the group that has been granted residence on a humanitarian basis. What we do, if we don't adjust the practice here, is put some people in line, past the quota refugees that we know are out there in the world, and that need a place to be, and past those that satisfy the criteria for asylum. Therefore, it is important to tighten the criteria for humanitarian stay. When the Yugoslav crisis arose, many who came to Norway with the hope of staying here were interviewed. What many of them said was that what they were primarily looking for was a place to be where they could get a job and take care of themselves. I think that's a need deep in most people. For this reason, I believe that many of those who come to Norway with hope of a better economic future should be given a primary opportunity to do so by coming here as work immigrants where from the first day they are self-sustaining. It is not good for the integration process in Norway that so many come and become a direct burden on public budgets, as many of them will be long. Sending a signal from the Storting that the real refugees and asylum seekers are to be accepted in the same way as the international community, but those who want to come here with hope of a better economic future must count on being self-sustaining from the first day, I think it will be right, and a signal that will also be understood by most of the population – without us acting contrary to our humanitarian responsibility. What we know is that coercion is a real problem in Norway. We know that many young women are sold, more or less, as an entrance ticket to Norwegian society. I am therefore pleased that the committee is on its way to considering the possibility of using the maintenance obligation as a family reunification requirement to counter coercive and bigami. It's actually quite new and quite central that the committee has said just that. The right-hand side proposes a paragraph that says that we want maintenance obligations and the relevant housing. According to my concepts it is to have a relevant place to live a natural part of the maintenance obligation. It is also positive that the Committee calls for a review of the definition of ‘strong human interests’, in order to have a kind of control over the fact that there has not been an embellishment in the concept of a humanitarian basis that goes beyond what the Storting wanted. The reason why the Right is in favour of some of the proposals that the Progress Party has made is that we think they are right, we think they point to concrete problems in Norwegian society. And then I think the suggestions deserve to be seriously evaluated. Both entertainment and housing are important to provide legal wording about. When the previous government said many times that the criteria for staying in Norway on a humanitarian basis were liberalised, it is important that we highlight by proposing a change to the legal text that such a decoration has not been desirable by the Right. When Vice President Vidar Bjørnstad says that you should be careful to use legal proposals for political marking, I would really say the opposite. Lover shall reflect a political view of the majority of the Stortinget. One of the facts that the Supreme Court of Carsten Smith has just underlined to the magnificence and justice, is that it is precisely by adjusting a legal text that we send a signal to the administration, to the courts, about what should be current practice. I would also like to add that it is not right that the number of refugees from Kosovo was the largest in 1999. The largest single group was clearly refugees from Northern Iraq, who do not meet the criteria for asylum. Finally, I would like to say, many people come here as a result of human smuggling. Many come here with false identity. Statistics published by the UDI suggest that most of the people who come here state false identity during periods. Then it must be possible to adjust the law a little, so that it is not worth trying to trick yourself into the country. I therefore find it disappointing that the bulk of the population cannot be on the Right and the Progress Party's proposals for this very thing. But I note that there we disagree, and choose to enjoy the small steps in the right direction that we have achieved through unanimous committee comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16-lower.ana.ud445e219	The President will ask if Kristin Krohn Devold will make suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16-lower.ana.ud445e222	Thank you for that, President! I'm dealing with what the right-hand proposal is all alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16-lower.ana.ud445e227	Then Kristin Krohn Devold has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16-lower.ana.ud445e230	In recent years, we have experienced a general humanitarianisation of Norwegian foreign legislation. This has taken various forms, partly through greater flexibility and increased discretion in specific cases, partly by changing certain requirements, such as: the requirement to be presumed by asylum, by strengthening the position of women in asylum assessments and amending the rules on family reunification, etc. There has been a real change at system level, and the Center Party has welcomed this humanization. Decisions under the Foreign Affairs Act are decisions which have a very large personal impact on the individual. Although asylum matters are in a special position, matters relating to family reunification, expulsion, etc. of fundamental personal importance for the individual human being. This requires the use of judgement and common sense on the part of the management body in such cases. The proponents of the Progress Party wish to see a general tightening of the Foreign Affairs Act. In addition, they want the central points of the regulation to take the form of law. The exercise of discretion shall be limited to the extent that it results in the granting of multiple residence applications. In my view, this illustrates a fundamentally different approach to these issues between the Progress Party and the majority of the Committee. In the case of the Centre Party, there is an indispensable supply gel in terms of policy: respect for the diversity of the individual and the necessary flexibility in dealing with individual creatures. Two things strike me in terms of the ever-recurring proposals of the Progress Party on the Foreign Law, first of all the lack of nuance between the various immigrant groups in Norway, and second the lack of ability – or willingness – to address the real challenges. The challenge for us as politicians – which the proponents of the Progress Party should also address – is first of all to get the processing time for applications for asylum or other residence permits into a sound framework. The members of the Procedural Party and the Right want a general tightening of the practice of granting residence on a humanitarian basis. However, we know that a significant proportion of human-respected humanitarian concessions have a minor cause for unresponsive waiting time for treatment. Our challenge, therefore, is to address the resource situation and administration of the asylum institution tree. Both human and economic considerations support this. In this respect, I recall the very successful nationwide project launched by the Ministry of Justice in November 1999 in order to dismantle the detentions in the police. Secondly, we need to make further efforts to find good integration measures against immigrants, such as those in prison. continue to fall outside the Norwegian labour market. Much of the key to successful integration lies in the labour market. Unemployment among non-Western immigrants is now close to 9pst. It also has an overrepresentation among low income groups of 20 pst. I record Right-wing comments on labour immigration, and ended last year's liberalisation of parts of labour migration. However, we must not let the latter go at the expense of getting nearly full employment from other immigrants in Norway. So the progress is turning the issue upside down. Our challenge is not initially a restriction on immigrants, but to ensure that they are integrated into profitable work as quickly as possible. The resistance of the proposers to the exercise of discretion in such cases affects the actual legal certainty of Norway. I would also argue that parts of the proposal balance what is acceptable without conflicting with the refugee convention to which Norway is obliged. If we have a refugee within their borders, circumstances surrounding application procedures cannot justify an irresponsible assessment of their asylum application. Otherwise, I cannot see any good enough arguments for yet another time to reduce the flexibility of such matters that affect people very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16-lower.ana.ud445e248	Not surprisingly, SV will join the majority in this case. I just need a few comments on the debate. Where I think it is important to make a distinction when discussing these issues, is in keeping refugee and asylum policy and its justification and then taking labour immigration policy separately. One of the problems now is that you mix these two things together and think that it's the same group and the same consideration that needs to be taken care of. It's not. Refugee and asylum policies have their own reasons and are justified in the need to obtain protection from an emergency situation. That's what this is about, and that's why it's a little pointless to discuss the size of the number that's coming and how this happens, because this essentially depends on the situation outside the world. Then we're going to have a regulation in Norway that deals with those who are coming, fair and in an equivalent and humanitarian way. The problem today is that we need an administration apparatus that is able to handle the amount of issues that are coming. It is located among others. under the responsibility of the Municipal Committee – UDI. We are constantly working on this, but there is no doubt that there is a good deal to be done here to avoid the long waiting periods, which, in turn, results in a humanitarian situation that the Norwegian authorities cannot ignore when assessing how the end of the matter will be. I would also like to stress that the humanitarian basis is a humanitarian basis. It's an institution that we've created just from the point of view that such situations can arise. We can discuss what it is and, of course, put political leadership for what it might be. But from that to a way of claiming that this is a knit that those who sit and handle this provision, can do almost whatever they want, I think I'm going reasonably far. It's not like that. All of us who have worked on such things know that. I also believe that some of the problem of integration – because that is what this proposal is all about – is that the integration of vision is bad and difficult. But a very important contribution to making this difficult is that, in general terms, the whole group of immigrants is referred to as almost half-criminals and scoundrels. The gateway that the Progress Party usually uses for these matters is a very poor contribution to the success of integration. You have to meet people as a group and as an individual with respect, and not least on an individual basis you have to decide on these matters both in the UDI and, where appropriate, in the legal system where it is important. I can't see what kind of political view of value would be the basis for treating these people as a group. And I feel it's behind me. So to the right post. Like SV, the right is concerned with liberalising labour immigration. There, SV and Right have also agreed. SV and Left have also had joint proposals on this in Stortinget. The view I do not share in the Right's argument on this matter is that those who should possibly be allowed to enter the country by liberalising labour immigration are necessarily the same as are now here on a humanitarian basis. I think there are two largely different groups. I also disagree very much when it is presented as if the asylum seekers who come here to the country now are in a way sneaking past the queue of quota refugees and making Norway less able to accept quota refugees. Quota refugees are defined as a number that we actually take a stand for. So we have the opportunity to say how many we want to accept, depending on the need that exists in the world. So that's where we can make maritime choices. And when the flow of refugees and asylum seekers increases, it does not always happen just when the budget is fixed or the number of quota refugees comes up for treatment. So the two sizes should be kept apart.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16-lower.ana.ud445e261	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16-lower.ana.ud445e269	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16-lower.ana.ud445e275	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Carl I. Hagen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, by Carl I. Hagen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, No. 3, from Kristin Krohn Devold on behalf of Right The Party for Progress has requested that the vote be set up in such a way that the Party for Progress may vote subsidiaryly for the Right's proposal. The President would therefore suggest that there should first be a vote on proposal No. 2, by the Progress Party, then by proposal No. 3, from the Right, then over proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Right, and finally above the option. Proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, reads:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16-lower.ana.ud445e441	Proposal No. Three, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Act on Foreign Affairs of 24 June 1988 No 64 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-16-lower.ana.ud445e466	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Act on Foreign Affairs of 24 June 1988 No 64 is amended as follows:
