ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e125	The representative, Lars Rise, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The called alternates, for Finnmark County of Inger Lise Balandin and for Troms County of Elisabeth Aspaker, have taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e141	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e146	I suggest Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e151	Asmund Kristoffersen is proposed as president. – Other proposals are not available, and Asmund Kristoffersen is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e169	At the request of the family, culture and the Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 20 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes each, and the Centre Party, the Left and the Representative Bastesen 5 minutes each. In addition, it is proposed to give rise to a sequence change of up to three lines with replies after the speeches from the main speakers for each group of lots and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up for the speaker list in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e180	I would first like to thank the Committee for constructive cooperation on a very comprehensive plan. There is agreement on large parts of the plan. In some areas, the Progress Party and, to a lesser extent, the Right Minority Comments. The big consensus doesn't mean that the plan is toothless. On the contrary, there are clear views and proposals here. It is important to prevent children and young people from entering a criminal career, and when they do, rapid and effective help and responses are needed to stop them. Therefore, it is important that the plan is put into practice with the necessary measures. It's about everyone having the right to be seen and heard and to participate in the evolution of society as the unique and valuable individuals we're all. The essence of the Committee’s opinion is that prevention is the most important thing. When children and young people experience difficulties, a coordinated aid system is needed that cooperates with those who are close to their children and young people in everyday life, i.e. parents primarily, but also school and kindergarten. The Committee has noted that crime among children and young people has increased significantly less than overall crime. In other words, the extent of childhood and juvenile delinquency is not the reason for this plan, but the fact that one child or one youth going out on a criminal track is too much, and that the crime and violence committed by the few who act in gangs, especially in Oslo, seems to be becoming more serious and serious. When signs of undesirable behaviour or problems that we know can lead to loss experiences and undesirable behaviour are discovered, whether they are in the health centre, kindergarten or school, early and coordinated intervention and action is needed. Children and young people are in the process of development, and therefore one day you do not have a day to lose for help to be inserted. A joint committee points out that boys are mainly perpetrators of criminal acts. On my own account, I would add that violence and crime are primarily a gender/man's problem. The Committee points out that this perspective is important in assessing the action to be taken. All except the Progress Party emphasises that action against childhood and juvenile delinquency must be taken on the basis of the knowledge of effective action and not on the basis of light demands for action when the media inflates the episodes that occur. It is quite striking that prevention and interventions that work are rarely hot drugs in the media. The same majority have noted that the research and evaluation carried out has shown clear links between social structures, the growing environment and crime. The fact that Norway, until a relatively short time ago, has been a country with small differences, a welfare state in which the guiding idea is that everyone should be able to be guaranteed opportunities to participate in the major social arenas is, in itself, an explanation that we have had relatively little crime to date. The Committee therefore considers that the most important prevention strategy will be to provide an inclusive society that provides all the rights and opportunities to participate with its resources and to counteract the differences in income and living conditions documented in the Equalisation Communication in the 1990s. The Committee agrees with the overall objective of ensuring good growth conditions for all children and young people. It means good kindergartens, a living, inclusive school, good leisure activities and meeting places in the community on the youth's own premises. It also means good cooperation between public authorities, children and young people, parents and non-governmental organisations and groups. A majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Parties and the SV, are occupied by the living conditions of the 50,000-70,000 children living below the poverty line. Among them are relatively many children in families with ethnic minority backgrounds. Citizens with a minority ethnic background are far more affected by unemployment than dependants with a majority background. Some children with a refugee background grow up in families where none of the parents are in work or education. In the SV's opinion, this signals exclusion and marginalisation. The same majority believe that an important prevention strategy will be to reinforce measures that lift out of poverty among children and young people living below the poverty line. For poverty does not necessarily lead to crime, but marginalisation, and exclusion from social arenas increases the risk of developing a criminal career. SV points out that poverty is still associated with shame. In a society as per-commercialized as ours, where acting, and what you do, becomes what gives identity, poverty is exclusive. There are few recreational and community venues that cost nothing. Not even primary school is free. The result is that some young people hang around shopping malls and are easily exchanged for repeaters, as in Oslo City. Therefore, we in SV believe that there are some common venues for experiences, activity and culture that can be free and accessible to all. The entire Committee believes that a comprehensive youth policy must be pursued. I am very pleased that a large majority are asking the Government to present a big message about a comprehensive youth policy. The Swedish Parliament has adopted a youth policy based on three objectives: youth should have opportunities to live independently, young people should have real opportunities for participation, and young people should be seen as a resource. I have read the Swedish message and believe it is a good starting point for the preparation of a Norwegian Storing message. Children and young people must be able to contribute and play an important role in social development, not just in the same way, but in a serious way. Children’s and youth organisations have always been important for young people’s participation and participation. A majority, all except the Advance Party, refers to the need for support schemes that capture minority organisations. Many of these organisations are not covered by BFD support schemes. Minority organisations are central to the work of multicultural youth, both to make resources visible and positive role models and to create alternative meeting places. These organisations represent the majority of those who are now seeking support from the Idea Bank, which LNU has managed. The majority believe that the Idea Bank has worked well, but only SV asks that the scheme be continued. The Committee has registered all the actions undertaken by several ministries. And that's good. However, local authorities feel that the measures are not coordinated. The challenge now is to achieve real coordination between the different levels of government and to take responsibility for agencies such as employment offices and social security offices and cooperate with the local level. The same requirement must be set at the county level. Too many children and young people fall between several chairs, and it is totally unacceptable that, for example: More children and young people with a minority ethnic background end up in child protection, while there is child and youth psychiatry from which they should be helped – as we can read about in the evening post today. The Committee considers that the good cooperation models need to be made visible. Many new measures have been launched as a pilot project using fresh means. The government says that more means are needed to strengthen and further develop this effort. The Committee stresses that children and young people at risk must be followed up by close networks of adults with a common understanding of problems — adults in the family, the community, school and the public sector. The Committee asks that the proposal of the Befring Committee on an overall service for children and young people, including: child protection, PP services and health stations are included, tested in some municipalities. The Committee stresses that the school is the main prevention area, as kindergartens are too many in pre-school age. The Committee stresses the importance of having a living and open school that builds up under the individual’s resources and mastery – which informs the student that ‘you are valuable’. The Committee stresses the importance of parents being a resource that needs to be involved. In particular, it is important to involve minority ethnic parents and parents of children with behavioural disorders. For minority ethnic parents, Norwegian is a challenge, and the Committee stresses repeatedly that Norwegian education needs to be improved and structured in such a way that it captures women. The good examples of parents getting involved are Saturday workshops and homework, and these have to get life's right and go on. The Committee stresses that a child experiencing problems needs to be assisted by a competent child protection system. The fring selection points to the same thing. I am pleased that an overall committee asks the Government to promote measures that can contribute to raising the level of competence within municipal child protection. I am also pleased that the Committee stresses the importance of helping children with war experiences and their parents. I've talked a lot about prevention, but little about what happens to those who commit serious crime. I'm referring to the fact that a large majority follow up on the main lines of the Criminal Service Notice. I also point out that an overall committee believes that the possibility of keeping children and young people who have the most serious behavioural disabilities back in an institution by coercion needs to be assessed — whether these are effective measures. The Committee supports the efforts made by the police to break up the gangs and believes that the possibility of deploying child protection personnel at police stations needs to be extended. I also refer you to the committee's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e224	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e227	It is true that the case-rapporteur describes it; there is a broad consensus on what is contained in the communication, both in terms of what measures should be taken to combat childhood and juvenile delinquency, and also in terms of the reality we experience. But in one area, the Left Party writes itself up with two special remarks, it goes on to describe a poor municipal economy. My question to the representative Valle will be: is it such that there is only an improved municipal economy that can ensure a better fight against child and youth crime, or is it also a responsibility of municipalities and county councils to give different priorities within the framework of which they already have?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e232	No, I don't think it's just an improved local economy that needs to improve conditions, but an improved local economy is a prerequisite for us to be able to speed up the measures that can improve conditions. I also point out that the Government says that more money is needed for some measures, and I believe that an improved municipal economy is part of it. However, what is most needed is coordination — coordination between departments, coordination between levels of administration and coordination where the State participates. I have seen too many times, from my own experience, that coordination does not take place, and that it is not the child or the young person who is at the centre of the measures that need to be taken. Many times I've wondered why it's so that the most difficult, those who need the most help, are those who fall between the chairs. When I had the opportunity to see this a little bit in a bird's eye view, I saw that there were heads of agencies that have repeatedly received one message, namely, you're going to keep the budget, that's the most important thing. When they were then told that what needed to be done to help the families and the kids with the greatest difficulties, you should do that, and then we could rather share on the bill afterwards, yes, then I actually saw how the shoulders fell down and the work was done. So I believe that the most important thing is coordination, coordination, coordination and early intervention. But in order for us to get a better school, in order for us to get better child protection, I believe that there must be more fresh funding – and of course, municipal politicians who give priority to that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e239	I would like to continue in the same path – it is the concern of the Socialist Left that there is a lack of municipal resources on the basis of which we might have a poor response to child and youth crime. My first question is about the fact that it may also be that there are laws and rules preventing the coordination that I signed actually supports the representative Valle in need, but that there is no need to be a lack of resources. Another thing I also want to challenge the representative, Valle, is what she was into in her main post, this with gangs, and that the problem is largely made up of individuals. Here I understand that the representative points out that virtually all our young people are very good – I agree – but there are some groups, some people and some people who create the dissatisfaction and the problem that will eventually be harmful to all young people, through the focus, among other things. in the media. But isn't SV also interested in closing away these elements that are harmful not only to themselves but also to their youth circles and to society in general? I can't see that in any area, SV wants measures aimed directly at the problem elements that the representative Valle points to, namely gangs and individuals. It might be interesting to hear whether SV, for example, is interested in looking towards the proposals of the Progress Party to create individual institutions that are just closing away the individual elements that we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e246	The representative Sandberg wondered if there were laws and regulations preventing cooperation. Very familiar, it's not. Many people point to professional secrecy as an obstacle to cooperation. But we know – we have also stated – that if the person seeking help, or the parents of the child seeking help, says it is okay that the information flows freely between those who are going to cooperate, yes, then the obligation of confidentiality is not an obstacle. An overall committee is also asking the Government to consider whether there is any need to do more about the obligation of professional secrecy. Yes, I think it needs more resources on the public arena in order for us to be able to get a better growing-up environment and do something about the measures that we see are necessary. If you look around the Commune-Norway now, there are just measures for children and young people being squandered – to kindergartens, to schools, to cultural action. All of this could mean a better growing-up environment. Therefore, something has to be done about the municipal economy. So to this with threads. I don't believe in institutions that can close away the unwanted elements. All experience shows that placing a youth in an institution without having a network to secure them when they come out does not help. We have institutions to be for those who have the greatest behavioral problems and which can be placed after coercive measures, but we also need a good cooperation between them that the young people are going to later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e255	I do not take the floor to disagree with any of the comments made by Mr Ågot Valle, the other rapporteur for the communication. On the contrary, I take the floor to commend the rapporteur for a very well done work and also a good post here in the Chamber today. I can say that the Christian People's Party is pleased with the work that the case rapporteur has done on all points in order to get to an overall position that is behind this message, which I think can be very significant in order to be able to move on precisely in the fight against crime among children and young people. We know that they live in a world that is becoming more and more complicated, and there are many losers produced. We need to find an overall instrument, an overall strategy to combat this, so that we avoid losing young people. When I'm still standing here, I want to challenge the representative, Valle, at one point – I think that's all I found in the vote – and it's in a little special note from the Socialist Left where they propose democracy development, among other things. attempts to lower the age of voting rights to 16 years in municipal and county elections. My question to the representative Valle will be if she would be so kind as to explain why she believes this is also part of an action plan against childhood and juvenile delinquency.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e262	First I have to say I was very happy to hear those words from Ola T. Loan. This has been a very comprehensive plan, which has required good cooperation in order to get clear messages – and I believe we have. This is a plan that in many ways is about the life of children being born and until they become adults, and also what kind of adult communities we create for them. That's why it's so incredibly important that we prevent many from losing, that we catch up with children and young people early when we see them developing unwanted behavior – and I'll add that it happens all too often today that it's being waited too long before an intervener and do something. So to this with the development of democracy and the age of voting rights. It is clear that it is interrelated, in the context of a comprehensive youth policy in which young people can contribute – not in the same way, but seriously – to the development of the society in which they are to grow up. For young people have experience of their reality. It's actually just those who have it, who can quite tell what kind of reality and what kind of everyday life they experience. Young people have a lot of resources. We will use those resources in many ways. Together, we have given some recipes on how they can be used, but I believe that youth must also have more to say in the development of the community, more to say in terms of developing democracy than they do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e271	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e275	Norwegian youth is mostly law-abiding and decent. The background of this big message shows that. Still, someone is developing a behavior that is in conflict with what we all want. This action plan is an attempt to describe the measures already in place and to step up further work with this group of young people. The Labour Party has had this problem high on its political agenda. It has, among other things, As a result, in 1999, the Labour Party set up its own sample to go into the depths of this problem complex. The main efforts that society can make to combat child and youth crime are to provide children and young people with safe and well-growth in all possible ways. Good growth and living conditions and a policy that ensures equal opportunities for children, irrespective of their country of residence, and regardless of their social status, are a good investment with a view to keeping children and young people away from a criminal career. I started by saying that the youth is law-abiding and decent, but just as full, it is that some young people commit criminal acts. A brief description of the situation is therefore in place. Overall crime in Norwegian society has increased from 1960 to today. This also applies to childhood and juvenile delinquency, but for this type of crime, growth has been significantly less than for the total. In the 1990s, crime among children and young people has shown a tendency to flare up, and broad efforts to prevent it may seem to have produced the desired results. It is a constant feature that the seriousness of the crimes increases with the age at which the crimes are committed. For young offenders, winning crimes and damage works constitute the main emphasis. Of the offences recorded in 1998, among young people under 15 years of age, there was a 50 pst., damage about 30 pst. and the remaining 20 pst. were more serious crimes such as violence and drug crimes. For the 15- to 17-year-olds, more than half of the crimes continue to be committed, but violence and drug crimes have now increased to about 35pst. of the registered crime. Despite the fact that we have few children's and juvenile criminals in Norway, there are some developments that we have to take note of: In the 1990s, there was an increase in reported violence among all age groups. We've had an increase in the number of people under the age of 18. In the case of drug offences, there has been an increase, particularly since 1994, in the number of cases targeted, including in all age groups. Summarized, we can say it's still the way the common criminal is a young man in town. “The young man has only grown older. All of us have recorded how the media often put the spotlight on criminal behaviour among young people with ethnic minority backgrounds. I think it is important to stress that young people with a migrant background are no more criminal than young Norwegians, if you see Norway as a whole. Looking only at Oslo, the surveys show that immigration youth is more represented in crime statistics than in youth in Norway. However, we cannot stigmatise an entire youth group on the basis of this numbering material. The gang crime we see in Oslo is undoubtedly very serious. Nor is there any doubt that the majority of these gangs are of immigrant background. However, this is primarily a major urban problem — and then needs to be addressed. Immigrant youth beyond the country and immigrants as a group should not be stigmatised for something that research shows that a small group of young men are behind. It is not easy to point out measures that are effective in relation to recrime. However, it is right to point out that efforts must be such as to prevent new recruitment and to help these young people feel that they are part of society and not on its side. Projects are now being implemented in Kristiansand, Drammen and Oslo with a view to combating recriminalism. These tests must be followed closely, and similar measures must be taken elsewhere if necessary. The Communication presented shows that a number of measures have been taken to counter and prevent childhood and juvenile delinquency. However, there seems to be still too much coordination between the various agencies and offices. For this reason, the majority of the Committee is in favour of better coordination of the provision of services, in line with, inter alia, the The Fring Committee refers to its work. In some municipalities, the majority are asking for an attempt to provide a comprehensive service for children and young people, including children and young people. child protection and PP service as well as a health centre are included. The kindergarten and school are key areas of intervention for children and young people showing risk behaviour. In kindergarten, difficulties can be detected at an early stage and action is taken quickly. I would also like to stress here the positive importance that child care can have for children with ethnic minority backgrounds, in particular with regard to the introduction into Norwegian language and culture. School is the largest common arena for children and young people. Throughout school, you have the opportunity to meet many children and their parents. If we manage to create a school that includes everyone, which gives each individual challenges in relation to the individual's needs and thus creates an open and living school, the basis is for good cooperation between students, parents and school. It is important to stress that parents have the overall responsibility for their children. But kindergarten and school can be important support players in providing young people with safe and well-growth. Good cooperation between parents and kindergarten and school is a prerequisite for the success of this work. Just good cooperation between home and school can be the most important measure to prevent undesirable behaviour. Norwegian school has, and still is, made a major effort to prevent child and youth crime. There have been successful campaigns and thus focused on, for example: bullying. These are actions that need to be continued. I would also like to show that a number of places have had great success with student mediation, a method by which students themselves resolve conflicts and problems. In this way, the individual is held responsible. Good results have been achieved here. In many communities around the country, there is good experience of close and close cooperation with the police. It should be a goal that all schools have their regular police contact. Norway has been and is a country with relatively small differences between people. We have had a welfare state where the supporting element has been that everyone should be guaranteed equal opportunities in terms of work, housing, education and health and cultural services. In my opinion, this is the main reason why Norway is a country with relatively low crime rates. Of course, you will experience – even if you take all kinds of preventive measures in kindergarten, school and leisure – that someone will fall outside and commit criminal acts. So society needs to react — and it needs to react quickly. Society cannot and must not accept crime. Crime has to be punished. To young offenders, however, it is of the utmost importance that the punishment from day one be organised in such a way as to have rehabilitation and integration — back to society — as the overall objective. In some cases, in order to protect society from new offences or because they are serious, prison sentences can not be avoided. However, all experience suggests that prison sentences alone are not a good strategy to prevent new crimes. The prison sentence must be combined with other measures, such as: education and work. Too many people would also be right to be confronted with their victims and get the opportunity to settle. Experience shows that to get young first-time criminals out of an unlucky trail, rapid response is important. Therefore, rapid investigation and rapid judicial review must be given priority to young offenders. There should be some hope that young people who have been sentenced to prison will return to society, an effective and well-functioning after-care system is needed. Completeness is important to this group. It is of little use to have pronounced judgment if there are no alternatives other than the old environment when the sentence is completed. Post-employment protection which contributes to housing and employment/training is essential for the success of rehabilitation. It's a good delivery gel that you don't have to kick whoever's down there. In few areas of life, this rule is more valid than with young offenders. These young people don't need a society that kicks after them. On the contrary, they need a society where you put your arm around them and offer help and guidance, so they can get into a path where both themselves and everyone else can enjoy what they have to contribute to the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e332	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e335	The representative Larsen opened his speech by stating that the Labour Party has had the problem high on its agenda. I must honestly admit that I am concerned, because if it is the largest party in Norway and the leading party in Norway over the decades have had this on the agenda, and we still have these problems, especially in the 1990s, it is clear that Norway's largest party and Norway's leading party have not attacked the problem and have not put the right things on the agenda. The representative Larsen spent a lot of his time reporting on the situation. We have now done that for a long, long time, and I think it is a general view in all the parties that the problem is well-lit, also in the political environment, in the media, etc. So the kind of action that the representative Larsen here now mentioned when he concluded what the situation is and has been like for ten years, I think is an obstacle to us not getting progress and not getting into action to prevent further development. My question to the representative Larsen is whether the Workers' Party might agree to look at the developments that underlie the situation we are up to today. We have had debates on this in the past. We know that today's 50 pst is born. Of all children outside marriage, one in four young people receive psychiatric care, 80 pst. by boys from divorce families have alcohol problems and never have so many young people taken their own lives. Could it simply be that this is the social pattern we see today, with the break-up of the family, which is the direct cause of the result we see?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e344	I cannot readily agree with the premise of the question raised by the representative, Mr Sandberg, because it is clear from the way the question is justified, that the representative Sandberg believes that child and youth crime is a huge problem in Norway, and that is not the case. And I think it is important that it be clarified in this debate. Child and juvenile delinquency is a marginal problem in Norway, but of course it does not mean that it is not important. And, as the rapporteur said in his statement, one child- and youth-criminal is one too many. The representative Sandberg also shows that there has been an increase, especially in the 1990s, and that is actually wrong. We have had an increase in childhood and juvenile crime from 1960 until today, but in the 1990s we have had an flare. As for the question to the representative Sandberg, who is wondering whether the Workers' Party will be involved in looking at the causes of the childhood and youth crime we have today, the answer is, of course, that we want to be part of it, but again there is something about the premises in relation to the question that I cannot fully agree with. When, for example: This is largely due to the individual's disintegration trends in society. I find it very difficult to imagine how to regulate people's marriages from this room, for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e353	The representative Larsen gave a good and thorough description of what the state is like in Norway, and we can join it. He also gave a good description of many of the measures taken and on which there is a broad consensus to further develop and enhance quality. Then he also said that it must be an objective that those who, despite preventive action, start with crime should have rehabilitation from day one. Right-wing agreement, but what concerns the Right, is that we do not seem to have laws that meet the need for a targeted rehabilitation policy for the age category that we are talking about here. The right considers, like the Children’s Ombudsman, that some children and young people actually live in an unlawful room, where the measures taken around serious, repeated crime are little regulated and little too little controlled in relation to the educational needs of young people, in terms of behavioural correction and the problem underlying criminal activity. I would like to hear whether the Labour Party believes that today's Child Protection Act and the Criminal Code meet the need for legal certainty in relation to child and youth crime both in relation to society and to the child itself, or whether the Workers' Party sees that there may be a need for legislative adaptations, possibly the preparation of a new piece of legislation to increase legal certainty about reaction patterns in relation to criminal acts committed by children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e362	There can be no doubt that good post-protection is absolutely fundamental to bringing children and young people back into useful social work, to use such an expression. Whether the law prevents it today, I'm not very sure about it. At least we have received signals related to professional secrecy that may indicate that the practice of professional secrecy in some cases is a barrier to cooperation, and that is probably an indication that something in what the representative Stolt-Nielsen asks about is correct. The majority ask the Ministry of Education to provide a key message on a comprehensive policy on children and young people. And if it turns out that there is a need for adjustments in the law – in order to get better post-protection – I assume that the department will come back to the Stortinget with suggestions on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e369	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e372	The Progress Party, like the rest of the Committee, welcomes the fact that the Government has put child and youth crime on the agenda by proposing an action plan against this social son. As usual, I had almost said, this message also contains some good, old Progress Party stuff. The problem is that the message is largely diluted, with too little offensive and creative additional solutions that provide little experience. The Progress Party believes that more focus should be placed on borderlining from parents, school, community, police and state authorities. It is also important that these agencies work together to identify common borders for children and young people in society. Parents must and should be encouraged to take more responsibility for their own children. A good way to do this is for example: through night-time projects, etc. Otherwise, it is important that parents keep in touch with each other so that they can take more care of their children, both in school and in leisure. In school, teachers also need to be more actively used. Teachers in the schoolyard should be more motivated to engage in the social work of the students to ensure that things go well. The Progress Party has pointed out in the past, and will again point out that people's culture and respect for the property of others should be set up as their own subject at school – this in order to help children and young people gain a better value base for building on. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the school should also bring down more severely on children and young people who do not follow the rules of the game that the rest of society is required to follow. Penalties, such as expulsions, penalties, etc., must therefore be applied to a greater extent. The police are the social institution to act as the last shot if both parents, school and community have failed in the attempt to raise children and young people. The Progress Party therefore sees it as very important that the police react strongly to offences of a minor nature, in order to prevent young offenders from repeating the offence. In other countries, there is a very good experience of such police reaction patterns. To show children and young people the consequences of breaking the boundaries that have been set by society, we need to have severe criminal responses to young offenders and first-time criminals to a greater extent than today — an example of this may be unconditional punishment. However, the Progress Party welcomes alternative settlements in, for example: escape-proof boarding schools based on clear disciplinary rules and sensible pedagogics, where young people can learn folk and receive normal schooling and work training that can qualify them for work, as the other parties call for. It is strange that the Committee in its position points out how important it is that prisons do not become training institutions for young people and first-time criminals, when several of the same parties who have supported the suspension have opposed the proposal of the Progress Party to allow Norwegian prison staff to search for visitors in order to control drug traffic there. By not supporting this proposal, one of them is to give its blessing to the fact that Norwegian prisons are just becoming educational institutions for young people in the field of the distribution and use of drugs. The Progress Party also considers it a little sad that the majority of the Stortinget recently restricted the police’s ability to investigate whether people have weapons. This greatly limits the police’s ability to combat criminal youth gangs. The Progress Party has launched proposals that we have also promoted in the past. We have stressed that we should adopt and get this going – to some extent – with closed institutions, and we have been misunderstood in many contexts. But I see that there are now several instances that support us in this – among other things. We are supported by Youth Against Violence and the Police. I also refer to Denmark where they are now building the second institution of this type, with very good results. But, of course, it's important that when you're done with the compensation at such an institution, you have a follow-up. Denmark has also been on the road in the form of a father’s function in relation to these juvenile criminals. It works very well. I hope Stortinget can help to look at such a solution later. Otherwise, I would like to end by promoting the proposals we have in the vote. I would also like to point out that we should have been involved in what is on pages 21 and 22 of the position regarding the school's efforts, and this is similar to Calling. Finally, I would like to signal that the Progress Party will, of course, support the Right proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e398	Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e403	When I hear the Progress Party, I often feel that we live in two different ways – both in terms of the description of the world, and not least in terms of measures that we believe are needed to change something. I spoke with my colleague Larsen who said that there is something about the premises that makes it almost difficult to ask questions. The progress party is e.g. They do not want free kindergartens in Oslo Aust, and they think that subsidies to kindergartens should initially be transferred to child welfare, which does not guarantee childcare access and thus contact with the young people who may most need such efforts. They also don't say anything about youth clubs and community meeting places in the settings. But they say, on the other hand, that they will have strong reactions in terms of prison sentences without conditions, and, the proposals for which the representative Sandberg did well, i.e. teaching people and respecting the property of another man, institutions based on clear disciplinary rules and lowering the criminal low age. In addition, as I said, there is quite a lot about this with strong reactions and punishments without conditions. I have a feeling that the Progress Party really believes very little that preventive measures work, but that only when it starts to go wrong will a hard tool be inserted. It may be that even prison sentences can be fair. That also means the working party. But there is very little to suggest that the youth learns so much positive in prison. I'm wondering what kind of research, what kind of knowledge the Progress Party is up to when they think that as much punishment as possible and as much prevention as possible is what it takes to change the stand.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e412	The difference between the representative Sandberg and the Progress Party and the representative Ausdal Starrfelt and the Workers' Party is that the Progress Party lives in the real world, while the Workers' Party and the representative Ausdal Starrfelt are avoiding reality. Because the solution to childhood and juvenile delinquency, which we all agree on, does not come through the notification. The Progress Party agrees with what is stated in this Communication, simply because we have given up the fight against the Labour Party and the majority of the Stortinget, who are constantly using all their resources on what they call prevention measures. All that is contained in the notification is repair measures. There are measures that need to be put in place to repair the damage that comes after the policy pursued. So there's been some policy over a 10-15 year period that gets negative results, and then we have to throw in a lot of resources to repair. In this case, then, child and youth crime has arisen as a result of a deliberate policy of the Workers' Party, resulting in a whole host of prevention measures. We've been creative. We have promoted creative proposals that are aimed at preventing young people from entering prison. We want young people to enter institutions that provide both school, pedagogics and child protection services — all in all — for the knowledge that the Workers' Party has gained, of course, can also be moved into those institutions. With good results, the Danes have done this, and they are building on it now. So to what I said initially, this with the reality and the non-reality. It is possible that the Workers' Party lives in a different reality also in this respect with a comprehensive youth policy, because in my position it says that the Progress Party is involved, but that the Right is not included. It is possible that we have two different positions, but I hope that the representative of Ausdal Starrfeld will at least correct that reality, unless the Workers' Party will be part of the rest of the reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e427	The representative Sandberg is here talking about too many repair measures, that the measures are too much directed towards prevention, and that we should have measures that made it worse at the root. Then I'm very surprised by the Progress Party's policy in relation to alcohol. There is a plural note on page 19, which does not include the Progress Party, which refers to the relationship between alcohol use and choice. It says one calculates that 70 pst. of all those involved in violence related to alcohol use, and that ‘in the prevention of drug use among young people, the whole community, not just the authorities, needs to engage’. When will the Progress Party wake up from the preventive work – that the alcohol policy that is being pursued should not be the ‘open tap policy’, with the longest possible opening time, to the far out of the morning quask, the related system? Because if a person really wants to prevent, one must take that challenge seriously. What do we do to bring down the alcohol consumption? In the Progress Party's comments, there's a lot that's tied up against punishment, and that it's an important piece to bring down crime. I want to challenge the Advance Party when it comes to alcohol policy. I wish we could get another answer than what we've been given before, that one is not willing to pursue a more restrictive policy than the one that is being pursued. But I hope that if they really want to avoid us just doing repairs, they will be willing to make changes even when it applies in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e436	I want to address the last one first, whether the Progress Party is very concerned about introducing criminal reactions. Yeah, we're the only party that's really concerned about it, because the rest of the Storting is just thinking about prevention and what I call repair work. To be honest, I think it's in place that one single party in the Norwegian Grand Prix is also concentrating on what is involved in criminal reactions. So, as has been said from this pulpit earlier today, it's like individual groups, singles and individuals that are responsible for large parts of crime. Then I think it's a little strange that we shouldn't be in agreement with closing out these elements, so they're 98 pst. of young people who are handsome and up-and-coming, and who behave properly, shall not suffer harm because of the individuals and groups that go around and destroy society in that way. Otherwise I also think it is a bit polite that the Christian People's Party is now on the track here in relation to punishment. I refer then to a statement in the newspaper '1' in Oslo, where there are statements from, as far as I understand, Lars Rise of the Christian People's Party that they now also want to move towards the Progress Party by going in for criminal action against the parents simply. This is a proposal which the Progress Party has advanced in the past, but which the majority in the Grand Duchy, including the Christian People's Party, has voted against. It is clear that our fight to introduce criminal reactions sooner or later will have an impact, but I'm afraid that the situation in the street, but child and juvenile delinquency considerations, has worsened several times in relation to today's situation. In the case of alcohol and alcohol: alcohol is a legal product and there is an age limit of 18 for beer and wine, and 20 for spirits. Before those dates, parents continue to be responsible for regulating whether or not they should have access to alcohol.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e447	I felt almost devoted to the wrong century when I heard the description of the Progress Party which school we should have, and this very strong emphasis on punishment, punishment, punishment, more severe punishments. It almost seems that the Progress Party has passed the fact that there is, in fact, a drop in the percentage of crime committed by children and young people compared to the overall crime picture. The right is very much in agreement with the Progress Party that we must have strict criminal sanctions against adult criminals. When we talk about childhood and juvenile delinquency, we want strict responses. But there may be a difference between punishment and reaction. Although a reaction may look like a punishment for the child at the moment, the reactions we are taking to children and young people must be directed towards rehabilitation, towards a return, towards behavioral correction, and so we do not think we can do that with the spanish tube. I call on the Progress Party to respect the fact that the prevention and interaction between children and young people and the adult apparatus around them have an effect, without the constant emphasis on punishment being so severe. Because there is a difference between punishment and reaction. It is not necessarily the same, as shown in the articles of the Progress Party. I wonder if the Progress Party really believes that preventing child and youth crime through retrial, deportation and punishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e463	I had some problems catching up with the message from the Right Representative, but I got the last question. Yeah, I actually think that if we introduce a little bit of a different reaction to the behavior of youth in school -- call it kind of reaction formally, I don't think it means anything if we call it punishment and the right calls it reaction, it's going to be exactly the same -- it's going to get positive results for the pattern we also see in the street. The representative begins by saying that the Right is also for stricter penalties. Yeah, but it's kind of in line with the polls. So, if the right is low on the polls, if they're too severe for more punishment, if they're high, they're not too severe for punishment. So it's a truth with some modifications. It turns out by voting here in the house. I know that I have received a reply, and that I should have responded to what the representative from the Right asked about. After all, when she calls for responses and penalties and sanctions from the Progress Party, it is in our proposals. They're not new, they've been with us for 15 years, and everyone understands what we want in terms of introducing other responses to crime. But I want to replicate back: what reactions is it right talking about that they want to introduce, besides what's in the message? In the Communication, there is a proposal for a whole lot of preventive measures, which we in the Progress Party today call repair. But what are the responses that the Right really want to take as a response to child and youth crime? I haven't seen anything yet. Finally, several of the replicants have challenged me in terms of crime statistics, and have stated in their speeches that in a way, it is not that the growth of juvenile crime is so great. But it depends on which statistics you're dealing with. I stand here with the Oslo police and the statistics of the Central Statistical Office, and it shows a completely different picture from what has been expressed in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e477	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e480	It is noted with satisfaction that a broad majority in the United Kingdom supports the proposal for an action plan against childhood and juvenile delinquency presented by the Bondevik Government. As far as I have been able to register, there is cross-political dissension about most of the points in the plan. The fact that, in particular, the Progress Party, and to some extent the Right, gives rise to divergent views, especially in the field of criminal policy, is not surprising. It doesn't depend on the fact that the government has a wide back coverage to go on realising the intentions contained in the Storing Message. Now, to a large extent, this action plan represents a review, and in many areas a strengthening, of actions already undertaken by the State. Thus, the plan does not primarily represent revolutionary new crime but is an attempt to do things better, more targeted, more efficient use of resources, see contexts and link the many measures more closely. The message is largely about gaining insight and knowledge about what works. The progress party criticises the message for being too offensive. However, there is nothing in the communication that prevents the Government and the public from doing more offensive work in the various areas if they know it leads. But when the offensive party believes tougher methods, lowered criminal lavalliers, more non-space boarding schools combined with education in folk culture, in short more cad values, then I am convinced that you are moving in the wrong direction. Folk and respect for other people's property is something everyone needs to learn, and no one disagrees that children and young people need to learn to relate to clear borders. But the Progress Party is making a serious simplification when they point to punishment, detention, expulsion, punishment and recitation as so-called sensible pedagogics, if I have understood them correctly in the position. It is not this child and young people who have come out crooked, primarily needed to learn to master a complicated life. As the report emphasizes, the causes of criminal acts are many and very complex. Therefore, the measures must also be numerous and complex. It concerns cross-sectoral cooperation between different departments and services nationally and locally. It is also important to consider that work has been in progress for many years to limit crime among children and young people. No one knows where we would have been today if it hadn't been the case. As the report points out, there has, after all, been no increase, but rather a decrease in the number of children and young people in the 1990s. It can tell us something about whether a long-term strategy of prevention, combined with police and justice, has had a positive or dampening effect, but there is no need to settle down on it. There is a need for enhanced multi-faceted efforts. All that can be done to improve living conditions and increase the safety of disadvantaged families with children is important. Time does not allow for any particular intervention. I just want to underline one, because not all parties end up on this, namely the parental guidance. This has also proved to be an effective measure, which is not least an important tool for immigrant parents who are insecure and unknown in a foreign culture. In the big news, the school is devoted to broad space, as one of the most important arenas for children and young people. Important development work is currently under way in schools and education, with a view to preventing segregation and problem behaviour. It's enough to mention keywords like LEV VEL, Association, inclusive school and school mediation. It's important that the school doesn't become an arena where someone has to be lost, but a place where they can experience themselves and be able to master challenges other than the destructive. One point that is usually not advanced in the debate in relation to its importance concerns alcohol and other drug abuse. In the action plan, it is estimated that 70 pst. of all violent crimes related to alcohol use. With this background, there is every reason to step up efforts to prevent drug use among children and young people. There is every reason to stress, as the report points out, that all environments must engage here, all environments in which attitudes are created and changed must be mobilised against drug use. Crime among children and young people can hardly be completely eradicated, but it can certainly be limited. It is also our responsibility as politicians to contribute to this by providing appropriate framework conditions. We want as many children and young people as possible to grow up and develop under conditions that provide them with enough ballast to avoid criminal behaviour, or to say so with the Committee's attitude: 'a child or a youth who travels on a criminal track is too much'.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e504	We have no secure data sources that can provide a full picture of criminal and violent activity among children and young people. Only the reported crime is recorded, and only the committed crime can be registered as age. The figures presented in the Communication are largely derived from self-reporting by Oslo Youth in 1996. Although a self-reporting survey may have major weaknesses, trends reflecting a picture of the situation. The study shows that 5 pst. of all young people are heavily burdened and have a wide range of problems, and this group is evenly distributed among the population, regardless of background. The study also shows that young people with a migrant background seem to be more law-abiding than young people with a Norwegian background, including young people. It is also important to ensure that the use of illicit drugs is not restricted to the illicit illicit manufacture of illicit drugs. In the case of atrocities, snuffing, nasking and other minor infringements, young people with Norwegian background are overrepresented, while young people with a migrant background are more often involved in acts of violence. Better quality and more holistic action on the prevention side will hopefully contribute to reduced criminal activity, but believing that we are able to eliminate crime among children and young people seems to be optimistic. And one of our main problems with those who are repeat criminals with serious and complex behavioral disorders is that as a society, we don't have the right tools to put in time. In this way St.meld is. No 17 a disappointment, it does not point to new instruments in relation to this group. We don't have laws that legislate the measures that may be necessary to get these kids on the right track and prevent a lifelong criminal racetrack. It puts these young people in a lavish room, pristine coincidences. Recent studies confirm what we have known for a long time, that the most resource-intensive with at least a demanding problem background, receive help through psychiatry, while the more demanding with the most complex problems are referred to child protection. And the most difficult cases, those that have decided the greatest need for multidisciplinary help from psychologists, doctors and other professionals, are placed in private institutions, with which the county officials have confirmed that they have too poor control. This problem is not mentioned in the main message. The right will repeat its proposal to lower the criminal detainee to 14 years of age, not to have more children in prison, but to put serious or repeated crime into a legal framework. Years of experience show that child protection does not address the problems associated with these children. Too many of them get so far in their criminal racetrack before they are 15, that the way forward is negatively oriented. A lowering of the criminal lavalry will require an adapted law that not only protects society from crime but also protects the criminal child from itself, from negative social networks and from arbitrary treatment by decisions taken by child protection or by county council members, which take their decisions after advice from child protection counsellors. We can't have children and young people with the heaviest problem background living in a lavish room, as the Children's Ombudsman calls it. Today's penal code is adapted to adults, so we are still seeing that young people above the criminal lavalry are also referred to child protection and child protection institutions, and child protection, it turns out, pushes the heaviest problem children away from themselves to private storage, often without the multidisciplinary skills necessary for the training and behavioural correction needed to get young people to the right. For young people with less complex problems, an early meeting with the judiciary can in itself be behaviourally correcting. It is respectful to have to meet in court and be confronted with the consequences of a criminal act. It shows that society does not accept crime. Young people must be able to be sentenced to electronic house arrest, to be adapted to community service or to be given conditional judgment under conditions. For criminal children who are even younger, child protection must be extended to include targeted detention in an institution for a shorter or longer period of time, not least to allow sufficient time to investigate the underlying causes, so that local child protection is provided with the knowledge they need to build positive networks around children exposed to crime. This is particularly necessary in cases where criminal activity is the result of pressure from older criminals. As stated in the wording, the Committee strongly agrees that efforts to prevent crime can and should be improved through the coordination of existing measures, the quality of individual interventions and efforts to improve the daily lives of marginalised children and young people. When many children and young people today live in families that have had incomes under the poverty line for a long time, it is a matter for society to pay a lot of attention. However, this situation has been addressed in depth through the averaging communication, which also addresses the income inequalities between ethnic North and immigrants. In the right we see the problems associated with this, but we don't want to focus on it in relation to criminal children and young people, because we're afraid it can help stigmatize these groups and at the same time draw attention away from more serious problems that go across ethnic and economic inequalities. I would finally like to include the Right suggestion in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e527	The representative Stolt-Nielsen has taken up the proposal she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e532	The Christian People's Party believes that one of the most important factors for a youth who experiences life being difficult to master is being seen, being able to experience that someone cares, and being allowed to build self-confidence, so that one can better master a complicated life. The representative of Stolt-Nielsen tried in a previous line here in this debate to go up some sort of border to the Progress Party by taking a distance from some of the strongest instruments proposed by the Progress Party in the vote. I get a little in doubt when I hear the representative Stolt-Nielsen, whether there is really such a big difference between the Right and the Advance Party's policy in this area. I'm very happy if they're able to distance themselves from these really tough methods that the Progress Party targets. I would like to ask the representative, Stolt-Nielsen, to explain what she means when she wants to impose electronic house arrests, for example, which – if I understand correctly – is a rather brutal instrument, and which, in my opinion, is not suitable for giving a young person the feeling of being taken care of, that someone cares about you. You are left to yourself and to an uncertainty that can only help build up under a criminal behaviour.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e539	I think that the representative Lånker sees quite different situations than I do when we talk about electronic house arrest. In the case of electronic house arrests, there is a control over where a youth is located. This allows young people, for example: to go to school, but it also gives an opportunity to hang people in if they are in a place where they shouldn't be, where they definitely shouldn't be. There is some sort of control of youth that one does not want to have in prison, because we do not believe that imprisonment itself will have a particularly positive impact. These are not very good results from international research on young people in prison, at least not on anyone who is under long-term housing. But it's just as full that there are some young people who are directly dangerous and who have to be in control. In this way, electronic control and an agreement with young people about where they are to be located at all times can be a way of adapting to a normal society, which opens up school and opens up the way for behavioral correction outside of people. At least we think that should be tried in some cases. It should not be rejected as inhumane. Isolation of a child on an island in a private child protection measure for several years seems to me to be much more inhumane, but in some cases it does. I therefore believe that we need to try out new and different instruments when we are to respond to heavily charged criminal youth, but they need to be put into a legal context. That's why we want to lower the criminal lavalier, both to secure society and to secure the young person himself from assault.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e549	It is not only the representative Lånke who remains in doubt about where the Right really stands when we discuss this area. I will never be right on the Right when child and youth crime is on the agenda. I wonder if the Right is so concerned with a populist competition with the Progress Party as to be the strictest, toughest, toughest against the criminals, that the Right loses the ability to make constructive contributions one would think that the traditional Right would otherwise have stood for. In the post, the representative of the Right acknowledges that we need to have a wide range of efforts in several areas. However, jump right off in the setting e.g. in the case of large sections of the note that we need to prevent drug use among young people, and that we need to catch those who drop out of school. The right is saying no to civil servants such as conflict prevention and violence prevention in the community and in the schools, and they won't help raising children and young people and their families out of poverty. And what does the right answer instead? What is the option when they jump out of all this? Well, it's lowering the criminal lavalier from 15 to 14 years. After all, all parties agree that young criminals must have a reaction. It must come quickly and, in some cases, it must also be forced. But why on earth should the Right drive the children into a court system designed for adults and adapted to adults? Why not listen to professionals in the system who say that children have nothing to do with this system? Why not also use non-judicial measures — including coercive measures —? It's almost as if you can start wondering if the goal is not to get children to get a better life and get out of the criminal environment, but rather that there are revenge thoughts – the punishment that revenge – that go through at the Right. I am disappointed at the picture that the Right draws of itself in connection with the serious problem we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e558	First of all, I must recommend the latter speaker to read the setting again, to see where the Right actually is and where we are not. The right is e.g. certainly include alcohol prevention measures among children and young people. When we want to create a legal framework around the criminal child, it's as much in the interests of the child as it is in the interests of society, because we believe that it's best for children to be treated on the basis of a justice that takes care of both the child and society. At the right, there is a concern about the randomness assessment that often exists in the field of child protection. We are concerned that children are placed in an institution without sufficient professional scope to meet the needs of these children, and we are concerned that these children are not being followed up enough. That's why we want a legal system around this, we want to adapt a law. As we have also pointed out, today's penal code is adapted to adults. If it is to be used in relation to children, it must be adapted. Or even better: we may need a law that lies in the grey zone between child protection and criminal law, for these children, who are part of the most serious problem, are not guaranteed their legal certainty through the measures taken today, and that problem we think it is necessary to do something about. The Children's Ombudsman also pointed out when he went out and said that the most difficult cases were living in a lawless room. And when we see that children's psychiatry pushes them away, that most of the children who are being treated in children's psychiatry are the ones who need it the least, while the majority of those who really need treatment don't get it. We have to do something about this. This is a state of law unworthy. The Member State of law shall also apply to the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e567	The representative Stolt-Nielsen and Right are probably on the same line with the Progress Party strongly concerned about the plight of young people and well – no doubt about it! Therefore, the Progress Party finds it somewhat strange that the Right, as the only party, will not share in asking the Government to present a big message about a whole youth policy, not because not also the Progress Party is sceptical about political governance, but when we first have these problems, we have to address them in some way. In Sweden, the Swedish Parliament has adopted a youth policy based on three objectives. It's: The youth's ability to live a life of independence for young people shall have real opportunities for participation and not least — young people shall be seen as a resource Why won't the Right agree to look at anything similar in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e586	In the right, we believe that resources can be better used directly to target children and young people than more and more bureaucratic investigations. The conditions listed for the purpose of the Swedish Parliament are very much reflected in our existing legislation. We have a law on children and parents that gives children in Norway great freedom of choice, which allows them to choose education and which gives them the right to be heard on important issues relating to themselves. However, if that right is to be implemented, it must be allowed in relation to other specific laws, such as: the school law. The right has always believed that the child's freedom of choice, the student's freedom of choice, should be given great importance, while we have a majority in the Stortinget who want to rule more strongly against politicians taking the elections instead of the youth. This applies not least to SV, which speaks to a large extent about democracy building and participation in local democracy, but also to such things as: will deprive young people of the right to choose their own school. We believe that it is through the design of the special laws in society that we can best facilitate the preservation of children's freedom of choice, children's visibility. And by building a good school that allows students to make the best use of their resources, we take care of the child and the young person at all. In particular, the need to be able to obtain an education without having to develop a theoretical competence. This is one of the really exclusive arenas, when the theoretically weak youth likes to be excluded from a vocational education because they don't reach study competence in mathematics. These are the realities we relate to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e597	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e600	The action plan against childhood and juvenile delinquency has been drawn up by five different departments: the Ministry of Children and Family Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Ministry of Church, Education and Research and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. It shows that this is essentially a matter of coordination and of overall thought. In particular, the plan has focused on better coordination of prevention and better follow-up of children and young people with serious behavioural problems, young offenders and criminal youth. Coordination shall cover all levels of administration and cross sectoral and professional boundaries. So we're going to have to avoid what we're still seeing, that someone falls between all of the chairs. In addition, greater emphasis shall be placed on the involvement of children and young people, and better cooperation with parents, schools and, in particular, non-governmental organisations shall be developed. Rapid and clear response to young offenders is necessary. Proposals and/or conflict advice are usually the most relevant response forms, combined with follow-up and possible treatment. Close cooperation between school, child protection and the police is required to prevent and follow-up. Actually, today we are discussing what kind of society we want and how we can best facilitate conditions to ensure good growth conditions for everyone. We are convinced – at least I am – that society is created from below, and that we must aim to create a society with space for all. Then we also have to contribute to creating equivalence in living conditions and a human vision based on the fact that everyone is equally valuable, regardless of gender, regardless of skin color, regardless of social status, regardless of sexual orientation, regardless of belief, etc., etc. I am convinced that if we manage to give children and young people self-respect, it is the best ‘vaccine’ against racism and against not having respect for the lives, health or property of others. We have to create a society where the children and the young people feel that they are being seen, that they are being heard, that they are getting involved, and that they have a self-respect at the bottom. I expect that there are 50,000 children in Norway who are poor. Being poor in Norway is, of course, quite different from being poor in poor countries, where the concept of poverty has a more dramatic content. That's why you're often hesitating to use the term here. But that's important, because it turns out that poverty gives less opportunity to participate in social activities, and less opportunities for both education and health. Getting put on the side line, marginalized, and maybe in the next round, is dramatic. It can lead to a worse life, social problems, and often crime. There are a number of evil circles and social problems that unfortunately turn out to be inheritances. So the question is, can we help break the vicious circles? Finally, at least an attempt has been made on a strategy against increasing differences in our country. Tomorrow, the staging will deal with the defrosting message. Here there is a good basis for a fairer distribution, and proposed a number of measures to meet those who need it the most and who have the least. The size has a strong obligation to follow up on what has been the basis of our welfare society, namely an equivalence in living conditions and a solid foundation. We want to be a cultural nation. We must be a cultural nation based on respect for human dignity and humanism, including in our encounter with crime, violence and unacceptable behaviour. So I'm sure the best way to deal with this is to build respect for the value of the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e613	Everyone reacts when injustice is done to someone, and it's extra bad to hear about it when children and youth are perpetrators. These are young people who are still searching for their own identity. And if you've done something wrong first, the path to a better life is often long and heavy, and there are often even more victims on the way. This is what we want to do to get something done about it through the action plan that has now been presented and addressed. The action plan is very focused on better coordination of efforts, using the opportunities that lie there, better, and, if possible, finding new approaches. But in addition – and perhaps most importantly – it is important to care, that we get a more organised care-off from the public, whether we talk about rapporteurs, health sisters, teachers, police, youth club leaders, and also from the private: voluntary organisations, parents and neighbours. It is a matter of concern to young people, that children and young people find someone outside the environment, who may be criminally burdened, who cares, and who, not least, as the representative Lahnstein said, shows them respect and self-respect. And the sooner we get in and care, the better, because the more we get to fight crime, cutting it before it turns into crime. Of course, it's better for the perpetrator, who gets a better life, it's better for potential victims who don't become victims, but it's also better for society, because it's far, far more reasonable. As regards local coordination, fortunately, some models have now been developed to be tested by local authorities. I want to draw up the municipality of Sarpsborg, my own municipality. There, the municipal administration, the police, representatives from the municipal authorities, child protection, the technical department, etc. A few years ago, he said, "What do we do with young people in Sarpsborg who have trouble?" And the exchange of experience they had about the problems was very fruitful. It led, inter alia, to: the employment of a policeman to coordinate this work. Today, they have regular meetings where they share experiences and address both specific issues and situations. And in Sarpsborg, there have been no problems with professional secrecy in this context. I think it's an obligation that's flexible and where today's legislation can also come up with favourable arrangements. But of course, nothing is better than making changes that make it never question whether the obligation of confidentiality stands in the way. The Sarpsborg police have school contacts at all schools, and they are visible in the community. They therefore catch up very much and make sure to channel it into this coordination committee, so that there will be no police case out of trouble. They alert schools, different agencies and child protection, as needed. And through this work, there has been a clear need for local — very local — youth clubs and a central all-activity building, and that is something that has been established indirectly as a result of this work. But when serious things happen anyway, it's important to have a quick reaction, and they've also done that in Sarpsborg. If a youth does something on a Wednesday night, the sentence may be there next Monday, because the city court has set aside every two Monday mornings — it's blank — where you put in matters where a quick decision is important, and that's not least when there are youth and first-time criminals inside the picture. By creating more efficiency in the system through the judicial system and the procedures at the police station, we have a lot to pick up. But not all things, fortunately, come into court. The conflict council is also widely used, but very different places in the country. I think the committee is very cautious in its position when they say that this system is ‘working well’. I would say that it is very successful, in addition to all the expectations we had at the time the arrangement was established. There will be agreements in most of the cases, they will be complied with in most of the cases, and not least studies show that both the perpetrator and the victim are very satisfied with the arrangement after the agreement has been concluded. This has to be used more, and I am glad that everyone agrees. We see the parallel to student mediation, where we now have a pilot project going on in some schools. Otherwise, in relation to coercive measures, I just want to say that child protection may have had one too narrow definition of what is best for the child. Here I also think there might be a lot to pick up, perhaps even without changing the law, but by changing the practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e626	With regard to this matter, the Left majority follows on from the points of view of the Committee. That being said, I would like to make some comments on the matter based on what is my main political perspective and my background of experience, namely Oslo. There is no doubt that in this city we find too many young people – of course they are a minority of all the youth involved, both among Norwegian youth and immigrant youth – who end up in criminal gangs, and who can in practice be led back to the fact that the home – father and mother – cannot be a father and mother as far as they want to be, that the school cannot be what they want, that child protection cannot be as good a child protection as they should be, and that the police cannot be as good as they want to be. We know, as the committee has stressed, what is the positive and correct answer, we know that. It's e.g. so that when teachers in a class see, they shall have enough surplus to report from, to cooperate with parents, to cooperate with child protection and police. We know that this is the ideal model, and I can say, with the Oslo background I have, that in very many cases this just works. Teachers in Oslo School do wonders in preventing child and youth crime in good cooperation with child protection and local police. But then we also have to be honest enough to look at the situations where things actually go wrong, and statistics and dry numbers say that by criminals under 20 years in Oslo, 340 in the number, have about. 270, I think, ethnic minority background. And you can't use that statistics to generalise and say that this is everybody, but you can't use it to devalue -- all these cases are serious in themselves. If you go into these situations, I think it's right to have a searchlight on some of the things that the committee has been looking at. Firstly, the Committee mentions the obligation of professional secrecy. I follow the majority of the committee, but with one important reservation, that the best examples of practicing sensible exemptions, based on the law, from the obligation of professional secrecy, and where it is well practised, are the broadcast so that it becomes known across the whole country – because there are also places in Oslo where this is well practised, and there are places where the obligation of professional secrecy in the absence of professional competence is used to protect professionals instead of protecting those concerned. But if you can broadcast the good examples, at least you'll get a big step forward. I also agree with the majority on the issue of coercive measures, that as this exists, it is at least very important that local child protection and county councillors play on the same team. I know from my Oslo background that local school, child protection and police can agree, but then you get to the county, and then it stops. So this is an important relationship to go into. And I also agree with the majority that you have to look at whether the coercive homes you have are good enough, and whether the offers are good enough in case you have to go in at an earlier time. This is the constructive answer to any demand to lower the criminal paramedic, from which the Left takes a sharp distance. Then it's necessary to develop the rug that's part of the Oslo rug, that in many of these situations where immigrant youth comes out on the criminal track, we can easily say that they lack role models. They lack role models at home, because in many of these cases it is a mother who is ‘speakless’, i.e. she knows her native language, but she does not master Norwegian, and in some cases it is a misunderstood family member that she should not learn Norwegian either. Then it has to be challenged, and then it has to be said that in Norway it is that we want people to have a fair chance of getting along. Many do excellent work here, there is a good lookout, and the best people also offer babysitting, so that the mothers have a chance to participate. But you have to have the light on this. You have to tell all the immigrant leaders, to all the religious leaders, that we take it for granted that when there are women coming from outside and getting married in Norway according to the family reunification rules we have, it's a moral duty, of course, to master the language in order to be a good mother. You don't have to put a mother in such a situation that she actually becomes dependent not only on the child as an interpreter in child protection matters, which often happens in a growing-up phase, but also that the child is otherwise linguistically an interpreter. This has to be discussed clearly and directly. It is also very important for all immigrant communities to create role images, and it is a challenge for the school to bring in more general teachers with a minority background. Because in many of the situations where it intersects, we might have come out better if, in addition to the many magnificent teachers who were there, there had also been a general teacher with a minority background as a role picture. These are the roles we need to strengthen. That's the interaction the committee describes under the abbreviation KRAED and SLT, we need to strengthen, but I'm trying to put this Oslo dimension on it. This is the alternative to the horrors of how bad it is, but we must not minimize when something is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e644	Let me first say that I think the representative, Mr Tömrös, had a much better approach to this debate than the Labour Party's chief spokesman, and I fully agree with what she said when it came to rapid courts and conflict councils. A few other politicians in this debate, including: represented by the representative of Ausdal Starrfelt in a reply to the Progress Party, arguing as if all politicians are doing to improve their society, is about preventing childhood and youth crime. For example, lack of willingness to grant money to the police is apologies for spending money in budgets to build more kindergartens. Such an argument, which we often hear from the Workers' Party in election campaigns, only helps to misplace and prevent us from finding the right solutions. The prevention of crime among young people must be targeted at those young people at risk who show signs of behaviour which, if it is allowed to continue, will lead these young people to the slope. The main defect in the decision of the family committee is that it does not sufficiently involve the purely criminal policy instruments that are necessary to stop young people who are entering a criminal everyday life and who can make a significant contribution to preventing and preventing them from ending up as ordinary criminals. Occasionally, it is also necessary to take action against people who are significantly under the criminal penal code, but often it is also necessary to take measures which are coercive for young offenders. For approx. Ten years ago, the Stortinget decided to lay down most state special schools for children and adolescents with behavioural problems. These schools were important aids for chess-driven youth. Children who had already stolen from their pockets to their fellow students in the 9-10s, who bullied other children or scolded the school to snort or drink beer, could be taken out of ordinary school and offered accommodation at a school boarding school, where they received adapted education so that they no longer felt like school losers, and where they were handled by specialised educators who set limits on their behavior. Not all children who received such an offer were rescued from a future criminal racetrack, but many were saved. At the same time, other children avoided their bullying and were not destroyed, and the students who remained in ordinary school were given much better education. I am convinced that the absence of these special schools has led to increased crime and prevents us from helping children who could have been helped. Some children, both above and below the criminal valvaldeler, are today hard criminals. For children and young people who are above the criminal valvaldeler, it does not benefit with silk gloves: conditional judges or community services. It is in their own interest that society sets clear boundaries and punishes unacceptable behaviour. When these youths commit crime, it is often in the form of gross thefts, burglaries, threats or violence, often violence against peers. Prison in their own youth institutions is the only sensible solution for young people who commit this type of serious crime. The alternatives mean that they don't really understand, and then we do these young people a bear service. It's like putting out a red runner that leads straight into a criminal world. At the end of his post, the main spokesman of the working party tried to minimize the problems. He expressed that juvenile delinquency was a small problem in scope, but of course important to solve. I think that all of us who are criminal politicians and sit on the Justice Committee see the reality differently. This is primarily a relatively significant problem in Oslo, also to an extent. My conclusion is that crime among children and young people can only be reduced by an interaction between effective prevention measures aimed at children at risk, criminal responses when offences have been committed, and the most effective instruments from a police force that should, to a greater extent than at present, prevent crime through the presence in public space.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e663	It's actually respect for human dignity. It's about when we talk about crime. So simple, yet so terriblely difficult, it can be in human relations. The action plan talks about seeing and caring when our children and young people have problems and no longer deal with everyday life. In order to have a positive effect, we need to take care of the whole human being, and at the same time see the important pieces of society puzzles that need to be in place to work well. Winning crimes, violence, harm and drug crime are the most common crimes among children and young people. Number of ranes has session. There has been a lot of attention around this topic, everyone knows about the kids. Criminal youth is part of life. We have to deal with this fact, and that many of these numbers actually consist of children and young people with refugee or immigrant backgrounds. If we don't deal with reality, we can't take the necessary and effective action against the problems we see in our society. It is a fact that many children and young people are plagued by other children. We, society, cannot accept that. The action plan we are discussing today is a good one. The most important part of the plan is the strong emphasis on cross-border and multidisciplinary cooperation. It doesn't make any sense that everyone is sitting on their little tue and pussling with theirs, here we have to make a joint effort to get rid of childhood and juvenile delinquency. Good cooperation between the Child Welfare Service and the police is important to engage in responses to children and young people. Conflict advice has proved to be a good tool if used correctly. The time factor is essential. Young people must experience a rapid response to their unwanted behaviour. Should such a reaction not occur, the youth does not find any reason to change behaviour. The Ministry of Justice has set up two working groups to monitor the location of the bottleneck in the criminal proceedings chain and propose measures to shorten the time taken. This working group is now finishing work. The term of office is set to 23 June 2000. Traditional police work in the form of intervention against criminal acts, arrests, investigations and criminal sanctions are important instruments against young people over the criminal lavalry. In the case of criminal youths, targeted work is particularly important which troubles the gangs, divides them, and limits the room for action of the gangs. Our goal must be to get young people out of the unfortunate environment in which they are struggling, and into more constructive and healthy environments. The action plan mentions several good instruments against criminal youth, such as: The talk of anxiety, a structured tool for conversations with young people, and put in place risk behaviour in relation to crime. The anxiety conversation has been developed at the Manglerud Police Station, and appears to be a good tool that can change young people's risk behaviour. A pilot project on youth contracts shall be established. It involves an agreement between a young offender, with the consent of his superior, on the one hand, and the police and municipal authorities on the other. In the contract, the young person undertakes to carry out specified activities against the waiver of further prosecution by the judicial authorities. Conflict advice, as mentioned earlier, is also a good tool. It can be used both in criminal matters and in civil matters, and is an alternative to an ordinary criminal law response where the criminal framework does not go beyond conditional judgment. Both parties must consent before mediation can be implemented. Learning conflict resolution is a good step, both in primary and secondary schools. It's a lesson that's good for school mediation situations, but it's also a good tool for many of the everyday life situations. Many parents should also learn conflict resolution, because they should be role models. In the prison system, we meet a build-up of mistreated dyslexics. Studies show that approximately 35 pst. have a severe degree of dyslexia, and in addition others come with a read and write disability, for other reasons. Competence in school and the help system is essential for proper diagnosis and treatment. Special education is of the good, but it requires proper diagnosis, proper tools and a top qualified teacher in the subject area concerned. [[The President clubs.]] Therefore, project Calls are so important in order to gain the desired level of competence from PP services and school leaders...
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e686	These are probably important things, but the time was up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e690	I have a friend who is a carpenter, and who sometimes has chores in kindergartens. There he feels that kids come away and take him on. He experiences how little boys stick to him and try to imitate him. In their daily lives there are only adult women: at home, in kindergarten, in the community and in the health centre. I am therefore extremely pleased that the Committee attaches so much importance to the selection of care professionals, so that we can have role models. In the autumn of 1998, I headed a work on children and young people in connection with the Oslo Labour Party programme. We went out in the field, and among other things. We visited Stovner Police Station, which, in addition to the Majorstua Police Station and others, makes a formidable effort precisely with difficulty. What made the strongest impression was a video that was recorded during an excursion, where some young, burdened boys were taken to ride and stand on waterskis. We saw kids, who were totally starved in adult contact and physical contact, taking on the big, strong policemen and sitting on their trap. In a book of poems and stories for youth and from youth, gathered by Inger Seim and edited by Arne O. Holm, a boy of twelve years writes about his best friend among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘I think toughness comes because my best friends have experiences while adults.’ It is an important political task to prevent and combat crime among children and young people as early as possible. It demands a high level of child and youth policy that ensures safe growth and meaningful schooling. Children who commit criminal acts must face clear boundaries and a quick response that involves criminal punishment and that the offender understands that this is what is happening. Rapid reaction does not just mean punishment by law. It may involve everything from parental intervention, the use of conflict advice, forced labour training and child protection measures to traditional criminal action. The community must react to criminal acts. So -- to do the right grips, we need to know what the world looks like. For example, let's do this. prevention of juvenile delinquency in major cities, we need to know something about the structural developments that create violence. We also have to figure out why we have problems making children from some ethnic environments functional in our society, and then we have to put the tools up. Young offenders differ from other young people in the fact that they often have difficulties in adapting to school and/or working life, a high level of drug consumption, or that they are seeking risk and stress. Many of them already emerge from childhood from behavioural problems such as tardiness, concentration problems and aggressiveness. A Swedish survey shows that 70-90 pst. of all crimes committed by persons who have been committed before the age of 12. Thus, violence can be combated before it occurs by taking action against disadvantaged children. I agree with the Committee when it emphasises both the need for cooperation between different public authorities across etat and administrative boundaries and the need for local action. Then I agree that children and young people must be given responsibility and show trust. Cheating often becomes a way to claim if children feel that society doesn't respect them. The basis for understanding what is right and what is wrong lies in social belonging and the corresponding fear of social condemnation of doing something wrong. For those who have not experienced social affiliation, violence can become a way of upliftment, power and recognition. Important measures are educational projects after school, role models, leisure activities, apprenticeships and work training, while children learn to limit and respect laws, regulations and norms. In order to bring youth crime to life, neither simple solutions nor populist outbursts are helpful. We have to care and take the youth seriously. Experience has shown that the young police are serious, and cooperation between the city, child protection, school and police functions well, for example. in Oslo, but the prevention work needs to be strengthened. In the end, I just want to mention one thing. The Oslo police experience that child protection is more concerned with professional secrecy than with information obligations, and they have also said this to us who have been out looking at their work. This creates problems for real interdisciplinaryism. I noticed that the committee is asking for an assessment of this, and I think it is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e742	Let it be said that prevention is very good in Norway. However, this does not prevent us today from experiencing some serious and repeated crimes committed by young people and children down to the age of 10. Although child and juvenile delinquency shows statistically a smaller increase than crime in general, this must never be a sleep cushion. The case rapporteur said that one criminal child is too much. As a leader of the Crime Prevention Council, I have been able to follow for years. the efforts of schools and municipalities towards children and young people. At the same time, I and the Council have also witnessed that society does not have the power to set clear boundaries and be clear enough on the reaction side when crime has occurred. The Crime Prevention Council has been challenged both by the National Attorney and recently by the Children’s Ombudsman to engage more strongly in finding adequate responses to criminal children and young people, because it is so important to have a first reaction to stop what could be the beginning of a criminal racetrack. In the autumn of 1999, the Council also received a specific call from the then Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum for proposals for criminal responses for younger offenders where prison is either not a good alternative or where the offenders are under the criminal detainee. Today, too many children and young people who commit illegal acts feel that they must not be responsible for this, and that is very unfortunate. The police do not always have appropriate means of response, and for younger children, child protection does not seem to be able to cope with the development of children involved in some serious crimes. The question is, what does society do? The Crime Prevention Council has submitted several proposals for responses to young offenders in the St. reported process. No 17, but it looks like we've made a little bit of progress. The Council shall have, inter alia: called for the extension of the use of conflict advice. At the same time, I record that the current Minister of Justice, Hanne Harlem, recently pointed out the need for reactions and other specific measures against criminals aged 12-18. In meeting with the Crime Prevention Council last week, the Children's Ombudsman said so strongly that the criminal children are entitled to a reaction, that some are able to set limits, and that the big community has a duty to intervene to prevent these kids from becoming victims of grey zones, and that they end up as throwing balls in the system without anyone following them up. St. Report. No 17 is an important document for what it says, but at the same time is a reminder to call for what is not in the message. On a number of occasions, the right has expressed concern that the youngest criminals encounter too little reactions on the part of the big society. The right has therefore taken the initiative to update legislation in order to be able to deal with an increasing severity of childhood and juvenile delinquency. It is now one year since the Stortinget asked the Government to present an overall plan for action and measures to combat criminal acts among children and youth. The order from Stortinget was twofold: reactions and preventive measures. In this way, this message from the Government is only a partial response to the task. For the exam we know how it had gone – it had hardly lasted. The right therefore believes that the message is currently only on one leg, which in its length is known to be quite unstable. I would therefore like to challenge specifically and ask the Minister for Children and Family Affairs if she agrees with the Minister for Justice that there is a need for new responses to 12-18-year-olds. Furthermore, I would like to ask her when the government might or might come back to Stortinget with such a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e768	One child who falls outside and gets into trouble is one too much in our society. The debate on child and youth crime is coming and going, and it went particularly high after we got a series of children's and gang fights in Oslo, which caused the issue to come up again on the political agenda. The action plan is the result of this. ‘Action Plan against Child and Youth Crime’ provides a comprehensive presentation of how the Government will strengthen and further develop efforts to prevent and combat criminal acts among children and young people. If we are to make a real effort, there is a need for better coordination and coordination of work, both at local and state level. Overall work and good interaction between departments and services that are local in relation to children and young people is an overall and comprehensive theme throughout the plan. It is important to stress that there is no dramatic development in childhood and juvenile delinquency. However, the problem itself is very serious, and it is important to take preventive measures to combat the childhood and juvenile crime we see. Furthermore, it is necessary to put in place measures to provide clear information to children and young people who commit criminal acts that such actions cannot be accepted. We can't be satisfied with a statistic as a surface out. Unfortunately, we see trends in Oslo that there are strong criminal gang environments, where we also have to recognise that some immigrant groups are more strongly represented than others. As Mr. Ågot Valle also said in his speech, it is important to stress that the ones we are talking about here, to a large extent, are young boys. The gender perspective becomes easily invisible, and then we lose a dimension in the debate. A clear gender perspective reveals the need for good male role models, be they in the family, kindergarten, child protection, school or leisure. Here we have a big challenge. This was Marit Nybakk inside his post in a good way. This is a plan that will be under continuous development as we gain experience from work. There are five departments that are behind the plan, which are to be implemented over a period of five years. I am pleased with the cooperation that is established between the departments of the plan. The work shall be followed up by the State Secretary-General’s Committee on Children’s and Youth, which shall prioritise efforts and assess actions and efforts during the planning period. If we are to get the necessary investment, it is essential that the work is given proper priority in the municipalities, and we will therefore focus on having a good dialogue with local authorities on the implementation of the plan. The plan contains 40 operational and new areas of action and actions within six main areas: comprehensive prevention work in school efforts aimed at leisure and the community follow-up of children and young people with serious behavioural problems follow-up of young offenders and criminal juveniles knowledge development and research As the representative Anne Enger Lahnstein said, this is about coordination and overall thinking, and it's about giving children self-respect. But I also believe that as parents, we need to take zoning more seriously, without being afraid of becoming strict as parents. I cannot today highlight the individual actions, but I would like to stress the importance of allocating sufficient resources to implement the plan. As far as prevention is concerned, I would like, among other things: pointing out the need for us to make a stronger effort to combat bullying in school. I would also like to underline the importance of increasing efforts towards children and young people with serious behavioural problems. The Ministry of Children and Family Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health have already started a work here, among others. through the new approaches to the treatment of behaviourally impaired children and adolescents, PMT and MST, which will be very important to follow-up. Furthermore, I would like to highlight the importance of strengthening the follow-up of young offenders and criminal youth. This requires a broad effort and a good interaction between, for example: police and child protection. I would also like to add a few comments to the comments from the Progress Party on PMT and MST processing. No information on Norwegian citizens will be provided to other countries. The exchange of information through guidance is confidential and all client information is anonymous and with the written qualified consent of the parties concerned. Of course, all concerned are also subject to professional secrecy. I have taken note of the Committee's views, and these will be assessed in the further work on following up the plan. As far as child protection is concerned, I have noticed that the Committee makes several proposals and recommendations, and we will follow up these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e813	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e816	I noticed that the Council of State said that there will be a need here for increased funds for some measures, and then I promise that at least she will receive SV's support in order to get those funds. Then she said that she noticed the proposals that the Committee has made regarding child protection measures. This applies in particular to two proposals. One is to test coordination measures in some experimental municipalities — coordination between child protection, health and PPT. The second is a proposal that we in SV have been dealing with for a very, very long time, namely the development of child protection competences. Marit Nybakk said that a child protection person who is more concerned with the obligation of professional secrecy than with the obligation of information, and when we see a large ‘tourover’ in child protection, there is evidence that the competence is not good enough there. The Befring committee has also pointed out the same thing. I would nevertheless like to challenge the Council of State to say a little more about how she intends to follow up on this, as well as how she intends to follow up the youth message, which we have now also asked for. There are many people who point to the importance of post-protection, and that's what the committee says very much about. Post-mortem protection in relation to one who comes with his plastic bag out of a prison also requires an up-to-date criminal justice in freedom. I never forget a visit I had in Bergen State Prison and the meeting with the director there, who said quite clearly that now there is criminal custody in freedom its turn to get a proper follow-up and a proper reinforcement. And I would like to encourage the Council of State to whisper to its Co-Council that here there is a need not only for a significant strengthening, but for a doubling of criminal custody in their free resources, as the director of the Bergen State Prison said.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e825	First, I would like to tell Mr. Ågot Valle that the Government is very pleased that there is at least one party that, no matter what matter what matter we discuss, has more money. It may therefore be convenient to rely on SV in some contexts. It is clear that if we are to be able to prevent, dampen and stop criminal behaviour among children and young people in the future, we need to act broadly. Then, of course, it must be right to invest in more knowledge-building and to give skills to those who work in institutions and who work with children and young people. And as I said in my post, I think it's important that we get action in everything from kindergarten and school to leisure activities, and of course parents also play an important role in how they support and follow up their children. I think it's important that we're an inclusive society. It may be the most important preventive strategy on the part of the state. It is a heavy responsibility on all of us to be able to do so. I can also assure both the Stortinget and the representative, Ågot Valle, that the Minister of Justice and I agree on how we should follow up this youth group which, for some reason, falls outside and commits criminal acts. The Minister of Justice and I have also set up a sample to try to find responses to this youth group, and we will present that to the Stortinge in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e840	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e845	It is an important action plan that Stortinget is dealing with today. Increasing child and youth crime must be seen in the context of social development as a whole. The present action plan is comprehensive, concrete and, not least, free of simple and populist solutions. In terms of crime and violence, there are rarely simple answers, unfortunately. I believe that home is the most important crime-preventing arena and school is the most important public arena to prevent crime. All relevant research shows that children and young people who feel like losers or fall outside the school system are at increased risk of a criminal career. There has been widespread involvement in the matter, but there is no concealment that there is a fundamental disagreement between the Labour Party and the Progress Party in Criminal Policy. Our goal must be to bring youth with problems on the right cold, not to a lifelong, criminal racetrack. Prison can be a necessary punishment, including for young people, but very few are able to get something positive out of being in prison. On the contrary, the way back is made shorter for some. The very best way to combat crime, in the view of the Labour Party, is to place high emphasis on prevention. That in some parties there is often a great deal of distance between theory and practice is a well-known case. The party of progress writes in its comments: ‘These members will point in particular to the need to ensure that children of immigrant parents master Norwegian languages in a satisfactory way when they begin primary school. Lack of language skills leads to problems in following instruction. This, in turn, may lead to a lack of interest in school work at an early age, poor school outcomes and difficulties in getting good jobs after finishing education, which in turn may help young people to sink into school and come into contact with negative settings.’ This is not the correct description of reality. Most young people with different ethnic backgrounds are law-abiding, but those are sadly exceptions. That may be a well-defined theoretical point on the part of the Progress Party, but the Progress Party disagrees with itself when the theory comes to practice. I'll show you, for example. to the position of the Progress Party during the examination of the budget, where the Progress Party, together with the Right, was moving towards the extension of the free-of-charge short-term nursery scheme to all 5-year-olds in Old Oslo. The fact that the Progress Party is voting against positive proposals that they in theory agree with is interesting to register.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e865	Recurrent crime, which is especially related to Oslo, and the dramatic settlement between competing gangs, actually makes one ask questions about what kind of youth we're dealing with. The poor attitude of the left, especially, leads to stagnation in the fight against the crime of violence among children and young people. There is no lack of public intervention today, but there are so many different agencies involved in the work, often without one knowing what the other is doing, that a typical juvenile criminal can have issues going on in the school establishment, child protection, the dissection and the police at the same time. There is a lack of transparency to put pressure on the fight against the development of violence among young people. The problem may also be that he can do something, for example, in the Oslo Center, but because he is living in another district, the routines fail. Several key agencies say that today there is a lack of transparency in order to be able to clear up and take proper action against crime. In addition, the country’s political authorities lack action, which some youths know to take advantage of. It is of little use to adopt an action plan which does not affect some measures against childhood and juvenile delinquency. As a consequence, there should be rapid and noticeable responses to crime both at school, through child protection, under police, by courts and in criminal proceedings. It may take many months after an episode has happened, before the perpetrator gets any reaction, and then the signal effect goes away. And the signal effect is important, because there are still indications that many young people are indifferent to things you do, and they know and have learned that they can usually escape. Experience in child protection shows that a large proportion of young criminals do not consciously address the issue of guilt when it comes to the wrong they have done. Instead, they're just concerned with talking about the way they're taken, and the treatment they get from the seat of order. They'd like to accuse the police of hard-handed treatment. In many ways, they turn the case upside down, and get an understanding of it in certain adult circles, which includes politicians of different categories. That's the other thing that gets blamed, which we've also heard in this room today. The society that does not provide leisure services, participants who provoke, police or weights who act brutally, is much of the reason and explanation. It is the police who are to blame that the young boy who killed a baby mother after driving in the wrong lane with a stolen car claimed. Unfortunately, part of the media helps to consolidate such a distorted image of reality. If one is to have the hope of halting a trend towards more serious juvenile delinquency, the concept of zero-tolerance must be introduced at an early stage. Those who are taken for nudity, violence, ransack and car thefts must get a quick and cash response, so that they perceive where the responsibility lies. In this context, the Progress Party wants to have proportionate penalties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e874	The need for an action plan against childhood and juvenile delinquency in Norway was – and is – great. The Progress Party is therefore pleased that this communication has arrived, even though it has come late when looking at the years of development which the Progress Party has recorded at least. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the reason for the increase in child and youth crime is the government’s earlier lack of willingness to take action that makes children and young people more responsible for their own actions. The Progress Party considers that the need to limit children and young people is greater than ever before, and considers that, in view of this, the Government must coordinate the proposals so that they do not become too effluent, but more concrete and not least effective. In contrast to most other parties, the Progress Party believes that strict penalties in many cases are necessary to combat the criminal youth gangs. The Progress Party therefore considers that unconditional imprisonment must be used more against this group of criminals and has proposed that the Government should also assess the criminal detainee. There is also a need to respond more strongly to the first-time criminal charges. The Progress Party also considers it particularly important that the police be given the resources necessary to address the fight against child and youth crime, and that more attention should be paid to the fact that the school is the most important venue for reaching children and young people. This must be exploited more actively, but at the same time we must not forget that the primary responsibility lies with the parents. The Progress Party sees it as very important that the youth communities are more responsible for the actions carried out by the environment itself. Such accountability of these environments may help to allow forces within themselves to begin to separate themselves from the destructive forces. This may, for example: is done by steering more public funds away from unlucky youth environments and rather reward those who act in a positive way. At the same time, we must not forget that young people should and must be motivated to take responsibility for their leisure time to a greater extent than today. The Progress Party is pleased with most of the measures proposed by the Government. However, I do see the need for more coordinated and, not least offensive measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e892	It's been said a lot of winged words about today's theme. We have seen and believed as never before, but there is research, and it provides very clear guidance for actions that can work. A further evaluation of interventions and projects in use in Norway is now available and has been carried out over time. There has been a lot of work, and there has been a lot of funding in relation to children and young people, both in terms of police, child protection, kindergartens, the community and school. Unfortunately, the evaluation of all measures does not give the character of more than one independent measure, the Olweus programme against bullying. All of the other projects have had considerable varying effects. Old knowledge of prevention as a good assignment over time, a uniform assignment, cooperation between home and school, for example, provides good results. Why is this so difficult in a society like Norway? In the United States too, a reduction in the role of parents as instructors of their own children has been observed, and now this lack of parental responsibility gives a great deal of expression. The Progress Party has repeatedly pointed out that public responsibility must be taken seriously. In addition to home, school is an important crime prevention institution. It has a positive effect where teams are being built to work on strategies to actively address situations that are developing in an unfortunate direction. It is positive to establish and disseminate standards of behaviour — in other words, good, old-fashioned education through fixed rules, for example against bullying. It is important to learn mastering stress, problem solving, self-control and emotional understanding. All of this can be learned at home at mother and father in cooperation with school, kindergarten and other families. These things are what, according to all research, can and will reduce crime and unwanted behaviour.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e903	I had really not intended to take the word several times, but the representative Shahbaz Tariq's posts provoked me to protest. The Progress Party shall have requested that representatives from the Workers' Party interpret our comments. It is good that, with our comments, we contribute to the fact that the representatives of the Workers' Party have something to deal with in their posts and scripts. But the interpretation of that I would have asked myself. To try one more time against the Labour Party and the representative Shahbaz Tariq: the comments and the proposals we have put in here are not the only ones in the future. This is a report from a teacher on the school day of March 1988. There is no conscious scientist here who says that there is no evidence of special education. Here researchers say that juvenile delinquency and the language of parents are two different things. Here's a police chief who wants to coerce criminal children. Here, criminal statistics from the Oslo Police and Statistical Central Bureau say that young people with a foreign cultural background have a much greater share of crime in Oslo. Here's a newspaper, which I've referred to earlier today, by Rise from the Christian People's Party, who wants to punish parents when children commit crime. Here's a look from Drammen that tells us about the problem that the Progress Party has been pointing to all along. And here's a newspaper headline from scientists that tells us that everything is out of control, and that the methods of the Progress Party should be emphasized. Today, a report from the KUF entitled ‘Evaluation of programmes and actions to reduce problem behaviour and develop social skills’ was published. Unfortunately, we have not taken this with us during the treatment. It says on page 16 and the measures taken in Denmark, which is the background to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Progress Party: ‘The first project started in 1999 to meet the scientific requirements. It has the name «New start – integration of marginalised young people». That's what the Progress Party is trying to get hold of. I understand that we are not going anywhere when there are underlying reasons to vote against the proposals of the Progress Party, as I understand the representative Shahbaz Tariq and the Workers' Party. But I have great faith that it will not take long before the Workers' Party and the rest of the Stortinget also see the seriousness of the fact that there is a small proportion of young people who have come out on the wrong road, and that we must take special action to get back on the track, so that we do not cut all the young people over a comb, which is now being done by the majority of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e917	What I asked the Progress Party about in my post was: When they say that there is a need to invest in Norwegian child training, what is the reason why they did not vote in favour during the budgetary procedure? That's what I was asking. When the representative Sandberg refers to so many newspaper posts, I would like to remind you that it is a well-known case that the Progress Party uses the media much more than others.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e927	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3550]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e941	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3551]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e955	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated by 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e962	In the course of the management of Document No, the Committee shall: The 8th proposal from the Leader of the Progress Party, Carl I. Hagen and Jan Simonsen, found that the measures put in place in this country would give us poorer measures in relation to the deployment of groundless asylum seekers. The party is eager to propose measures to refugees and asylum seekers, but it may be appropriate to ensure the quality of some of the proposals put forward here in Stortinget. Introducing Danish conditions will mean that it will take longer to send out a clearly groundless asylum seeker after the Progress Party's proposal than is the practice today. In the event of unfounded applications for asylum, the Directorate for Foreign Affairs may send the applicant out of the country by finalising the application, without waiting for the handling of complaints. In Denmark, the Refugee Council may appeal the decision, and asylum seekers cannot be sent out until complaints are dealt with – according to the Progress Party’s policy, a far worse proposal than today’s Norwegian legislation. However, it has not been said that we cannot be better off in some areas, because the Committee shares the concerns of the proposers about the growing crime of asylum seekers. We see it in particular before violence and profit crime. We'll see about that. increase the choice of asylum recipients and increase in simple shop and shoplifting. We see that parts of it are organized, we see that more people come back even though they are already expelled as groundless asylum seekers. These contribute to creating unrest and fear in our asylum recipients. Therefore, it is important to be able to handle these applications quickly and efficiently, as the Foreign Affairs Directorate suggests from 1 June this year. Today we have no leftovers after the efforts made in conjunction with the police and the UDI in this area. We do not want a development where elected and threatened are daily in our asylum recipients. For this reason, it is important that the UDI and the responsible persons at each asylum recipient have clear rules on what is allowed and what requirements are set for each asylum seeker. We want those who work in asylum recipients and those who come to seek asylum to feel safe in our asylum recipients. It is important that asylum-seekers can provide security for all parties. As I said, those who do not comply with the requirements for suspension may be absent before the complaint is dealt with. Today's legislation provides for and is used to stop those who do not have reason to seek asylum with us. The Committee therefore rejects the introduction of a 'quick paragraph' in the Foreign Law, as described in the proposal of the Progress Party. The background is that today we have a good enough home for quick handling in the foreign law § 15 first paragraph. In addition, the Progress Party proposes to have the necessary access to or allow for the foreign authorities to hold separate asylum seekers in receptions with strong restrictions on freedom of movement or full custody of the asylum recipient until the application is completed. For these, create a separate source of reception. The Committee considers that applicants for asylum who are seconded to a place of reception in a municipality under the first paragraph of Section 59 of the Foreign Regulations are entitled to stay where the applications are processed. It is important for asylum seekers to have confidence between those added and asylum seekers. Those who come to our country have lost confidence in the society they left, and trust must be restored. They will have access to their own everyday life, and not least they will need help to win back their former social roles. In addition, it is important to stress that when they stay in our country, they will be involved and make a positive contribution to society. This latter must be done in relation to the ability, education and opportunities that exist. Equally, it must be emphasised that everyone who has applied for support from us has been subject to Norwegian law and law. Where criminal acts or threats are pursued, they shall be reported to the Norwegian police. There is no doubt that asylum seekers who are criminals create great unrest and uncertainty in reception. Criminal activity quickly creates unlucky effects even outside the reception. Establishment and operation are difficult, and contact between reception and the community is harmful. In such cases, the impression is also often made that everyone is a criminal at reception, even though a few are guilty of criminal offences. It is therefore important that such relationships be notified to the police immediately and that the police give priority to these. The majority in the Committee rejected both of the proposals made by the Progress Party in Document No. 8, with the reason I've come here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e985	Last summer, the undersigned ordered the introduction of a system for asylum seekers to wait in the host camp until the applications were completed and the Norwegian authorities were able to have a full overview of the background of the applicants. My prerequisite was that no one should wait in the reception camp for more than three months, and that the conditions were arranged for well-being. Shortly after this statement, the current Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said to the Newspaper that the Progress Party had taken the order to block refugees from behind the barbed wire, even though in that interview with VG that Stoltenberg referred to, neither had mentioned fences nor barbed wire, and even if the proposal only concerned asylum seekers and refugees were not mentioned in a single word. Jens Stoltenberg thus spoke falsely, he knew that he spoke falsely and he did so with full consideration. It tells most of all about a total lack of morality and honesty in the top management of the Workers' Party, a lack of honesty that we have also seen in many other contexts, now last through Martin Kolberg's statements on Fridtjof Frank Gundersen's statement on the warmth of a collective tent that was distorted to be a racist attack on the Samir. We have seen it in the debate on the Freedom Party in Austria, and I myself have been exposed to lying rumors about my privacy from central labour party politicians. It is regrettable that such a party governs the country. We're going to have hope that our lifetime will be short. The proposal that Carl I. Hagen and I signed up to now is a proposal with the same intentions that I expressed last year. It is a very sensible proposal, probably the only one that can eliminate the abuse of the asylum system by criminal foreigners, free foreign tourists, possible international terrorists and illegal immigrants. Thanks to the total freedom of movement available to all asylum seekers today when they come to Norway, anyone who would not normally receive a visa to Norway may come here, come out here to be refugees, apply for asylum, and thus have both a temporary work permit, an opportunity to commit crime and to disappear from receptions and remain forever as illegal immigrants somewhere in Europe. That many take advantage of this opportunity, we know positively. It is enough to note that asylum seekers in Norway are getting away from democratic countries, people who obviously need to know that they have no opportunity to gain refugee status, but who can use the time in an asylum recipient either to save money or to commit theft and burglary. The proposal of the Progress Party is not a form of imprisonment or punishment. It is only about organising the reception of asylum seekers to Norway in such a way as to prevent the misuse of the asylum system by the categories of people I have mentioned here. Of course, it is a very insignificant burden for the majority of asylum seekers who do not have dishonest intentions – except that most of them pretend to be refugees without being so – to have to wait for a maximum of three months in a larger camp area with all possible service functions before being deployed in Norwegian municipalities as refugees, or sent home. They should be enthusiastic about such a temporary disadvantage when they know that the intention is to prevent the black sheep of asylum seekers from destroying the reputation of all by misusing the asylum system. Therefore, the resistance of the majority to this proposal is incomprehensible and deeply regrettable, because the result is that it will still be easy for criminals or people who intend to get away in our country to carry out their intentions. With a strong limitation of freedom of movement until they are sent home or given refugee status in Norway and are outsourced, it will of course be much more difficult and therefore much less attractive to travel to Norway. This proposal will therefore solve the problems of the misuse of the asylum system, but unfortunately in Norway we have a large majority which is not very solution-oriented. Finally, I would like to address the motion put forward by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e1000	Jan Simonsen has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e1003	I would like to grant the Advance Party credit for having them in their Document No. Eight proposals on crime among asylum seekers have addressed an important and real problem. However, the proposals contained in Document No are not. The 8 proposal, of such a nature that the Right finds reason to support them. It is important not to treat asylum seekers as a group of criminals, but to act quickly on criminal acts. In this case, practice has not been as good as it should be, because especially when we talk about asylum recipients where families live closely together, it is important to respond to violent acts, unacceptable actions, by taking these people away from family life to the other asylum seekers. The exchange of letters between the Committee and the Ministry has provided information that Norway has a stronger law to implement the rapid deployment of clearly groundless asylum seekers than is the case in Denmark. This makes the first part of the proposal of the Progress Party superfluous, and a joint committee stresses that the possibility of taking rapid decisions when the applications are manifestly unfounded is to be used and the procedure is to be reduced. Secondly, it is very important that there should be house rules for good people on the individual reception of asylum and that it should be very strict if they are not respected. Therefore, a unanimous committee also states that the rules made by the UDI for the enforcement of consequences for unacceptable behaviour on individual asylum recipients must be reviewed periodically as necessary. If this is the case, as we may have reason to believe, there is an increasing problem with violent and very active criminal individuals inside some of the asylum recipients, it may also speak for a faster and more consistent enforcement of the law we have. These persons must be taken out and transferred to the judiciary or to the health services if that is where they belong. We point out that it has proved to be a general problem to send some asylum seekers out of the country in cases where their application is manifestly unfounded. This therefore calls for a general review of the means we can put in place in these cases. On that basis, on behalf of the Right, I would like to raise proposal No. 3, which is distributed in the hall, where we ask the Government at the beginning of the harvest session to come up with a separate case about how we handle people who are going to be sent home, but where the home country represents a problem in being able to accept them. I would also like to take this opportunity to refer to a debate in Stortinget on 18 May last year relating to the so-called Quetta and Laos cases. Here was a collective Justiscomite crystal clear that the conditions for the amnesty given by the Council of State Aure were to be present, and we also asked for a full review of how these matters were handled by the Council of State, back to the Stortinget. I would like to ask the Council of State in its statement later today to confirm to the Committee that we will have such a full review, so that the press release that we received on Friday, which deals with a single case, can allow for comments from the Stortings side, and that the review will also apply to the other matters that fall within the same category, and that it can be done by a full committee examination of whether the premises of Stortinget here are complied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e1018	Kristin Krohn Devold has taken up the suggestion to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e1021	The centre party is clearly of the opinion that we cannot accept the recent developments with increasing crime among asylum seekers, especially in the area of crime against violence and profit. These developments contribute strongly to the weakening of the Asylum Institute, to the setting up of legal asylum seekers and to the raising of the fear of alien peoples. We see that there is a need for different instruments to control this development, and not least to speed up the process. Up to now, there has been a significant problem that the length of the procedure has been too long in asylum cases. There is no reason not to deal quickly with groundless asylum applications. This applies to those cases where it is obvious that the applicant does not fulfil the conditions for protection. As I have said, the Central Party is of the opinion that asylum seekers who do not have a basis for staying in Norway, and in particular those who also commit criminal acts, should have as short a period of residence in the country as possible. In relation to the current proposals by Jan Simonsen and Carl I. Hagen, we are in the Central Party of the opinion that there are today sufficient possibilities in the legislation to implement effective and rapid treatment of manifestly groundless applications, and we are very sceptical about the creation of specific prison-like reception units for groups of asylum seekers. The Judicial Committee is aware that the National Advocate and the UDI individually have carried out a screening of the extent to which persons who have been detained commit criminal offences. Both studies give the general picture that there is uncertainty about the extent, but that in general there does not appear to be a large scale. Nevertheless, it is obvious that crime during periods can be a significant problem for reception and community. Often it is associated with changes in the composition of residents. Profitability, particularly from shops, but also internally from receptions, and from burglaries in houses, cabins and cars are reported separately. Drug crime seems to be a small problem. There have also been very serious incidents of violence, threats, fire strikes and killings. In the current situation, two things in particular are worth noting. First, there seems to be an overrepresentation of criminal offences among lonely men with long reception stays behind them. Secondly, it may appear that people from Eastern Europe are overrepresented among those who commit criminal offences and that some of them are coming to the country to practice the crime of profit. With regard to the treatment of asylum applications today, the police shall inform the UDI following the prosecution instructions when an asylum seeker is intended for a criminal offence. The police also inform before they are sighted, e.g. that there has been a notification for criminal offences and that investigations have been carried out or that there is concern in the community because of crime. Furthermore, the receipts shall also notify the UDI of criminal offences. When such a notification is received in the UDI, the asylum case is prioritised by a rapid follow-up at all stages of the procedure. In the case of asylum seekers from Russia and Eastern Europe, there is a separate overview of applicants where the UDI is notified of crime. This way, the time spent on each case is checked. The processing time may vary in these cases, for example: due to the fact that notifications of crime can be made at different stages of the proceedings. In cases where these applications are considered to be manifestly unfounded, the duration of treatment in the directorate is now one to three weeks. UDI assumes responsibility for interviewing asylum seekers from 1 July 2000. Procedures have been put in place to make it possible to take decisions two to three weeks on application in all cases where no new information needs to be obtained or checked. Compared to last year, this could mean a significantly faster procedure. In 1999, it was up to six months before the police questioned asylum seekers, including those who were given priority. In addition to this conversion of case preparation, the UDI now assesses procedures to ensure a rapid handling of cases where the application is manifestly unfounded. This may be done by not reviewing all stages of the preparatory procedure in the group of applicants from countries where, in experience, there are often manifestly unfounded applications and applicants who have previously been refused asylum in Norway or other countries. Furthermore, it is still natural to give priority to applicants who may be linked to reports of crime. In sum, these measures demonstrate that there are currently sufficient regulatory possibilities to implement effective and rapid treatment of manifestly groundless applications, and therefore there is no need for specific prison-like reception facilities for groups of asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e1047	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e1050	I would like to raise the matter that the Committee's chairman, Kristin Krohn Devold, also raised in his speech, namely the debate on 18 May last year after the then Justice Minister Odd Einar Dørum had given conditional amnesty to what was referred to as people from Quetta and Laos districts. In the debate, Mrs Astrid Marie Nistad, spokeswoman of the Labour Party, said among others:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings are illegal and subject to criminal liability under the Foreign Law § 47. There must be no doubt about this. The committee, including us from the Labour Party, is occupied with the general preventive concerns in such cases, nets because they are so extensive, so complicated and so difficult to investigate. The Committee therefore emphasises the need to accept an ethical, humane or practical cork of practice in which illegal behaviour in relation to Norwegian authorities is preferable to abstinence and subsequent citizenship in Norway.’.» She also made it clear that she agreed with the proposers, among others. I, that in that case, there was a breach of the Foreign Affairs Act. It was stressed in the debate that the conditional amnesty granted with the deadline was on. In the case of the Gholam family, the most publicly mentioned of these persons, they were given a four-week period by letter of 22 March 1999 to provide a national passport as proof of their identity. As far as I can see, the deadline is slightly longer. But the deadline was to be extended by more than one year – after a hard debate in which a total increase said that you would no longer have it so that it would pay to falsify, pay to lie, pay to come with completely wrong information and try to trick the Norwegian authorities all around – I refuse to believe that. Therefore, it is totally unacceptable when the Minister of Justice sent out a press release on Friday that this family – which we thought was sent for the longest time after the debate last year, together with the others – will now receive permanent residence permits and citizenship in Norway, because they have now delivered what is called a ‘emergency passport’ – not a normal national passport, but a ‘emergency passport’. When it is also said that other Quetta and Laos people are still in Norway, there is only one reaction that these people must have to face Norwegian authorities, namely, the lack of action. A Minister of Justice who does this, we cannot accept, and I allow myself to address the proposal that I have named proposal No. 2, which is filed in Stortinget's office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e1062	The President reminds us that the time for this morning's meeting is immediately running out, but the President considers it appropriate that we close this matter now, and it does not appear that there are any high-sounding protests against it. The President has also come to the conclusion that Carl I. Hagen has made a proposal that is, in its nature, a mistrust proposal, and expects us to take voting on roll call at the end of the debate, i.e. in connection with this matter, while the rest of the proposals relating to this matter are normally taken up at the end of the conciliation proceedings. – There have been no protests against it either.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e1068	I find reason to comment on some aspects of the treatment of the so-called Gholam case. The Gholam family was notified in advance of withdrawals and expulsions in October 1995. Gholam Hussain had been in Norway for five years, while the spouse and children had been in the country for two years and had a valid residence permit for about 1 1⁄2 years. UDI withdrew its authorisation in January 1996 and took a decision on expulsion at the same time. This occurred as a result of UDI and Kripos starting work to investigate in more detail whether a number of Afghan asylum seekers in Norway were Pakistani citizens from the city of Quetta, Pakistan. The expulsion decisions were maintained by the Ministry of Justice in October 1996, the request for conversion was rejected in January 1997, and the decision of the Ministry was also tried twice by the courts. The Gholam family was repatriated by the Norwegian police to Pakistan in May 1997 following a clear signal from Pakistan's immigration authorities. However, the family was rejected at the airport in Karachi, Pakistan. The family was later allowed to return to Pakistan in May 1998 without doing so. On 17 December 1998, Minister of Justice Aud-Inger Aure announced that the persons covered by the so-called Quetta and Laos projects, including the Gholam family, could be accommodated in Norway according to specific guidelines. The conditions of breast-feeding included requirements for individuals to demonstrate their Pakistani identity and nationality by providing genuine passports of nationality. If they did so, it was promised that a new initial residence permit would be granted that could form the basis for the residence permit. A period of four weeks was set for the presentation of passports, and added that the deadline could be extended if a satisfactory explanation was provided that it took longer to obtain the passport. The consequence of not meeting the conditions was that the persons concerned would have to return. In March 1999, the first letters to lawyers representing the persons concerned dealt with the closer understanding of breast-feeding. There has subsequently been regular contact between the lawyer representing almost all persons and the department. During the period, there has also been close cooperation between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on contact with the Pakistani authorities via the Pakistani Embassy in Oslo and our own embassy in Islamabad. The Pakistani authorities have confirmed the Pakistani nationality of the Gholam family through several notes to the Norwegian authorities and issued travel documents, so-called emergency passports. The Ministry of Justice did not consider that there were grounds for considering the confirmation given in the issue of travel documents and the exchange of notes, other than in the case of passports of nationality. Such an exchange of notes must be regarded as at least as reassuring as confirmation of their nationality as the issue of passports. In addition, it was not possible, in practice, to issue the documents now issued within the original time limit set by Minister of Justice Aure, so that the extension would apply. In the view of the Ministry, the Gholam family must now be said to have fulfilled the conditions attached to breast-feeding.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e1081	The President may consider it appropriate for the Minister of Justice to complete his reasoning, even if it goes beyond the three minutes set aside. – The hall is nodded.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e1084	I'm gonna be okay, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e1089	Not so fast that we don't understand what the council says!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e1092	No – it was well on the border now maybe! The obligations of former Minister of Justice, Aure, I have found it appropriate to follow up on the fact that the Gholam family has now been granted a residence permit, and that is the obligation I believe must be with the authorities to comply with the promises made earlier, even though they have been given by a previous government. This case illustrates a number of practical problems that limit the freedom of action of the Norwegian authorities in the field of foreigners. Although it is found under Norwegian legislation that foreign citizens do not have the right to stay in Norway, this does not mean that they are always able to return these persons to their respective country of origin. This is regrettable, but just as fully part of the difficult reality that surrounds us. These are problems that Norway has in common with other western countries, and which are constantly working to find solutions in relation to individual countries and areas. Otherwise, of course, I will follow up the comment of the majority of the Justice Committee in the inner East. S. No 172 for 1998-99 to inform the Storting in an appropriate manner when cases are closed. And this I hope that you can brief the Storting about the session start to the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e1103	The representative of Carl I. Hagen, on behalf of the Progress Party, has submitted a motion of censure to the Minister of Justice on the basis of the fact that the Ministry has now granted a final residence permit to the Gholam family. This case does not concern this family in particular, it concerns important principles. In 1998, the Ministry of Justice gave amnesty to a number of non-residents who had entered Norway illegally through what was called the Quetta and Lao projects. These were projects in which the Foreign Affairs Directorate and Kripos found that a number of people had been given residence in Norway on faulty premises. They came from Pakistan and Thailand, but they went out to come from Afghanistan and Laos. In 1998, the Progress Party presented a Document No. 8-proposal asking the Government to reverse its decision on conditional amnesty for non-residents covered by these two projects. The proposal was rejected by Stortinget, but a unanimous justice minister made very clear messages to the ministry. The committee said unanimously that it had noticed that in these cases we are facing a systematic crime that has led both the Kripos and the Foreign Affairs Directorate to have had to use considerable resources, both financially and in their personnel, to reveal the truth. The Committee stressed that illegal immigration is illegal and criminal offences, and stressed the need to accept neither ethical nor practical practices in which unlawful behaviour against the Norwegian authorities favours residence and subsequent citizenship in Norway. The Committee expressed scepticism for the use of amnesty as a general instrument and warned against a practice in which dishonest and unfair behaviour provides a residence permit. However, when the majority of the Judicial Committee voted against the proposal of the Advancement Party, it was because it was considered that the decision in these cases was within the responsibility of the Department. In that case, the Department, by its Chief Justice Minister, must also take responsibility. There is no doubt that the Gholam family is a Pakistani citizen and that they have infiltrated Norway. The Minister of Justice now rewards dishonest and dishonest conduct with a residence permit — precisely the one that the Judicial Committee unanimously warned against. The Minister of Justice has started his career trying to prevent the police college students from getting a job in the police, and to grant a residence permit for Pakistani citizens, on the grounds that it has now been proved in a reassuring way that they lied about their background. It's really a start that qualifies for a quick finish.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e1114	As our rapporteur had to concentrate on the Committee's position, I find it appropriate to give the Workers' Party's views on the proposal put forward by the representative Hagen. Despite illegalities vis-à-vis Norwegian authorities, inter alia: the declaration of false identity, which was criticised by the Labour Party and where the representative Hagen has given some comprehensive quotations, announced in December 1998 to the Bondevik Government that the persons covered by the so-called Quetta and Laos projects could be accommodated in Norway under certain conditions, in particular that the Norwegian authorities know the identity and nationality of the persons concerned. Nevertheless, during the examination of the proposals of the Progress Party on the conversion of amnesty last spring, a majority, with the exception of the Progress Party, recognised that the conditional amnesty decision had been taken within what must be assumed to be the Ministry's area of competence. The Judicial Committee clarified that the consequence of non-compliance is that the persons concerned will not be covered by breast-feeding and that they will then have to return to their home Member State. We know that contacts with the Pakistani authorities have been difficult and have contributed to the long period of proceedings last summer. The working party assumes that the conditions for amnesty are met as to the Gholam family. On this basis, the Workers' Party takes note of the assessments of the Minister of Justice and the decision of the Ministry in this case. We assume, as the Minister of Justice also stated, that the Stortinget will be properly informed about the finalisation of the Quetta and Lao cases. Against this background, of course, we will vote against Mr Hagen's proposal. However, it is a general problem to prevent the transport of persons who are not allowed to stay in Norway or who are to be expelled or expelled because of conditions in the country of origin or destination. In this context, we would therefore like to think it makes sense to review this issue, and we would also like to vote in favour of the proposal from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e1125	When the Christian People's Party agreed with the majority's position, I did not see the need to take the floor after the case was properly reviewed by the President. However, I now wish to speak on the Hagen proposal. The Gholam family has been discussing many times, including: Int. S. No 172 for 1998-99 on the conversion of the conditional amnesty period for non-residents affected by the so-called Quetta and Laos projects. A unanimous judge then said the following: ‘The Committee... has noted that in these cases we are faced with a systematic crime in relation to Norwegian foreign authorities and that both the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and KRIPOS, through the so-called Quetta project, have had to carry out a major investigation work with, among others. additional interrogations, language tests, seizure of comprehensive evidence and the collection and review of visa applications in Norway and Pakistan.’;» And on the other hand, ‘The Committee will refer to the significant resources, both human and financial, that have been allocated to this investigation.’ The Committee stressed that illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings are illegal and subject to criminal liability under Section 47 of the Foreign Affairs Act. The Committee stresses that it is not necessary to accept, for ethical or practical reasons, any practice whereby unlawful behaviour against the Norwegian authorities gives preference to obtaining residence and subsequent citizenship in Norway. The Committee also expressed scepticism for the use of amnesty as a general instrument and warned against a practice in which dishonest and unfair behaviour provides a residence permit. In the same case, it was also shown that the Ministry had made it conditional on the Norwegian authorities knowing the appropriate nationality and identity of the persons concerned, and that only genuine and valid passports of Pakistan were accepted. A deadline was also set for this to be resolved. The consequences of non-compliance would be that the persons concerned were not covered by the breast-feeding period and that they would have to return to their country of origin. The current Minister of Justice, Aure, stated that she granted an amnesty of ‘under extreme doubt’. This case has been a repair shop for a long time. The deadlines that have been set for the family have obviously expired without any action being taken. So when they finally got their documents sorted out, the Minister of Justice has granted a residence permit. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the deadlines set for bringing the facts into a case are being observed and respected, so it is also unfortunate that there has been such a long time since the breast-feeding was granted and the deadlines set for the documentation were available. However, the Christian People's Party does not believe that there is any reason to support a motion of censure against the Minister of Justice. Now it's time, but I just want to signal that we support the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e1148	Only a few brief comments from me as case spokesman. I would like to strongly reject the assertions made by Jan Simonsen in his speech that the Labour Party, our Prime Minister and the leaders of the party were not to believe in refugee policy. I would like to point out that former Prime Minister Thorbjørn Jagland and others. said here in a debate that we should have a humane refugee policy. But that's not the same thing as having a refugee policy without rules. We need rules that are possible to handle and enforce. It's important to us in the Working Party. I would like to comment a little bit more when it comes to this very fact that the Progress Party wants special asylum receptions, which could be seen as prison. It will provide a bad starting point for those who want to stop, in the further integration process. We don't want closed institutions, regulated by a special law, for people who haven't done anything wrong. Today, the global conventions on human rights also apply to our country, and it is important to take into account asylum and refugee policy as well. Hagen commented a little on the post I held on 18th May last year, and he quoted from it – in a bit of a bad new Norse – but he did not take the end of the post, where I said: ‘The working party and the rest of the majority of the Committee have not agreed that the decision should be converted. The majority of the Committee’s comments state that one considers that this Decision’ — in Gholam-saka — ‘yet has been done within the scope of what must be considered to be the Ministry and Government’s area of authority’. And I still mean that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e1164	I would like to begin by saying that I am pleased with the feedback given by the Minister of Justice, namely that we will get a full account of the Quetta and Laos cases at the start of the session. We need that, and the committee has asked for that. I would like to remind you that it was a rather harsh, critical justice that stood together on 18 May last, where we said that we were skeptical of this use of amnesty and would warn against the practice that had been followed here, and where we said that those who could not present genuine and valid passports of nationality within the deadline had to return to their country of origin. It was the premises given by the committee. But this matter deserves a proper and full review so that we are asked all the questions we have, and get all the answers it is possible to give. Therefore, it is too early to conclude in one direction or another today. I would also like to take into account that this problem, after all, did not start with the Minister of Justice. I have a little feeling that we are now in the process of fixing the tray for blacksmiths. It was former councillor Aure who started the debate we're in, and then it's important that we have the whole thing with us when we go in and draw the conclusions, and so we get the full opportunity to do that for the autumn. I am also pleased that those who have spoken have expressed support for the Right's proposal to also get a separate case on what we do when people are going home, but the home country does not accept them – because there is obviously part of the problem complex in this case. We then have the opportunity in October for both a full review of the Quetta and Laos cases and a full review of what we're doing where it's possible that someone should send people home, so that we can get a proper and comprehensive answer to this question. On that basis, I do not find it natural to support the proposals of the Progress Party as has been made today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e1175	First to Astrid Marie Nistad, who protested against Jan Simonsen's claims that the Prime Minister had not spoken crediblely earlier. In this context, I would like to mention that last Saturday Jens Stoltenberg said on television that his government would continue to work to renovate the healthcare system. The results are, we read in the newspapers, that 30 employees at the Church Hospital, perhaps 200 at the Regional Hospital in Tromsø, the rehabilitation department covering North Norway, in Tromsø, are to be laid down, and the government goes in to cut the purchase of hospital equipment by nearly 700 million. kr. How this relates to a claim to rust up the health care system, goes beyond my mind. So credibility will Prime Minister Stoltenberg still have problems with it. So I thought it was interesting to hear some of the comments. As Kristin Krohn Devold said, on 18 May last year it was a harsh justice that said that you would not reward those who lie, falsify, act dishonestly and commit crimes. And that's exactly what you do -- that's exactly what you do! She also said that there were deadlines set in the contingent amnesty. Could that period have been of 12 months' duration? During this time, there has been more than enough opportunity, based on the condition of a deadline, to provide for expulsion decisions. The deadline cannot be said to have been met. I refuse to believe that you first give a period in writing of four weeks and then extend it by more than one year! So it's even within what the Justice Committee members said in the debate on 18 May last year, full opportunity to point out that the deadline was broken – if you want to cover up the fact that at the time you were opposed to a big deal of change in the decision. I note that the majority in this Chamber protests for all the world, but is on the move. I note that the Minister of Justice owes partly to the previous government, and presents it as if she had no choice, other than to follow up the former Minister of Justice. She did. And I actually thought that those who are in favour of a change of government, at least occasionally have in mind that it should be to change some of the policies and the line that the government they are throwing stands for – to make changes. I note that the Minister of Justice did not seize the opportunity here to change the genius policy of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e1185	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox There will then be a call to vote on proposal No. 2, from Carl I. Hagen. [[See page 3551]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e1195	During the debate on substance No. Three proposals have been put forward. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 2, by Carl I. Hagen on behalf of the Advancement Party, already being addressed to voting, as this is to be regarded as a motion of censure. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The other proposals for case No. 3 will normally be voted on at the end of the meeting today. We are voting on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Grand Duchy regrets that Minister of Justice Hanne Harlem has granted the Gholam family residence permit in Norway.’ It's voteroed by name-prop. Those who vote in favour of the proposal answer yes. Those who vote against the proposal answer no.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-13.ana.ud508e1232	The morning meeting will now be cancelled, and a new meeting will be scheduled at 9 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
