ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e227	The President allows himself to wish everyone good morning! The representative Jørn L. Stang will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e232	On behalf of Vidar Kleppe, Terje Knudsen, Steinar Bastesen, Torbjørn Andersen and myself, I propose a nationwide weather radar network.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e237	The representative of Øystein Hedstrom will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e240	On behalf of Kenneth Svendsen, Ulf Erik Knudsen and myself, I have been delighted to make a proposal to reduce the formwork laid on the business of the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e245	The representative, Lars Sponheim, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e248	In this fabled company, I will be presented with a proposal on behalf of Einar Steensnæs, Johan J. Jakobsen and myself on greater transparency and influence in the decision-making processes of EEA work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e253	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 15 until today's map has been processed. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e269	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3860]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e283	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3-8 is treated as a whole. [[Fotation, see page 3860]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e344	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 3 hours and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 75 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 25 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, Left and the Representative Steinar Bastisen 10 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of lines of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers of each political group and from parliamentary leaders, and five lines, with replies from the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e355	It's now about three months since we had a government change. That is why there is now another government that is proposing a revision of the budget, other than the government that was set when the budget was adopted. At the same time, those who stood behind the one who was, and those who now have the government, have jointly voted in full favour of the budget on which it is based. So we've seen a common starting point like this. There are many things that have changed since the budget was adopted. And quite soon after our government entered the government offices, we realized that there were a lot of uncovered bills there. The biggest bills concerned the increase in the pay of the people's money for disability and sick pay. That was the cost of our international involvement in Kosovo, and that was not least the lag we have in relation to the hospital's ability to do a real job for the population. A total of DKK 3.5 billion was to be covered into the revised national budget. That is why there was a need for major changes in the revision this time, although I fully agree with Mr Bratteli once said that revised should only be the implementation message, i.e. the adjustments necessary to achieve the policy for which it was a majority at the beginning of the year. So I agree, to the extent that I agree with the Advancement Party, which finds that it would be appealing, that there should not be any major changes in the budget throughout the year if it is not imperative, although I think it might be striking that they have to repeat that statement 75 times in the vote. With the background I mentioned here, it was natural for us to ask the centre parties if they were willing to enter into negotiations in order to find an overall solution to continue what we had agreed on, especially given that the centre parties indicated that we had to keep the framework of the budget that had been set up and that what had to be covered had to be covered within those limits. It was therefore disappointing that there was no willingness on the part of the centre to find such negotiated solutions. As a result, what is called sluggish driving was revised. And that's, of course, the most common way of dealing with the revision -- it's at least been the last few years, and there's no unknown practice. The outcome of the treatment here in the United Kingdom has shown that we have got through what was the starting point for revision, namely to put in place that Norway is still to contribute internationally in Kosovo. We have been targeted for increased payments to the public without reducing services to the citizens of Norway. We'll pay the bill. And we haven't least had a raise for the hospital sector compared to the one we had six months ago. In addition, there have been a good deal of changes in the Storting, changes with real incidence. And not least, I think it's good that we've managed to go even further than that lifting the government had all made up for the hospital economy, i.e. a further boost there. We have again received some funds in the transport sector, we have received grants for employment by seafarers, various things in the budget of the Ministry of Industry, the Ministry of Environment and other departments, which in total make there also positive changes after the treatment in the Storting. First of all, it's positive because it's been real priorities, because we've done what we're now betting on, instead of doing other things, not just doing other things. When the Prime Minister had his declaration of accession, he said that Norway was the country of opportunity. And that's it. This includes, inter alia: because of the outcome of everyone taking social responsibility through the solidarity option. Money policy should be the basis for our very export-oriented business to have the opportunity to have stable framework conditions by knowing what they get paid for what they produce when they sell it out. Fortunately, in the revised national budget, there is no proposal to change the course in that area either. It's stuck. Wages and salaries policy must ensure that we are able to maintain full employment without strong price and cost increases, and we who are responsible for fiscal policy must ensure that we give demand incentives so that the activity fits to give people full employment and to get good services from the community. That is why we have also achieved unique results. We've got full employment. There has been real wage growth, but not with such large nominal additions, and we've got more in the public sector that can help sick and nurturing and give an equal offer to the entire population. It's positive. So what might be negative and a little bit threatening about this line right over here is, for example, if we were to go into what the centre parties have proposed about a tax return for those who have the most of them. It surprises me that the centre parties, along with the right side, are going into a decision with a decree to the Government. It is also disappointing that our budget partners are now moving in to cut labour market measures. So just a few days after we've been discussing supersampling in the Storting, one of the best ways to smooth out, to get people out of work, is to suggest cutting off the center parties. I don't think it's completely hanging out. In total, the solidarity option is under some pressure. And then I'm going to refer to Trygve Bratteli, which should have said once in a while that now it's about not losing your head, we can get used to it! And I feel like that is the situation we're in right now, that it's saying a little bit in relation to whether we're going to be able to continue the possibilities that are now so clear today because of the good results we have. The most common question I get a day is, why can't we use more oil money? I keep getting rid of that question – at party meetings, at home, no matter where I am. We've tried to just put oil money on the top of the budget. Following the policy of raising the centre parties last time they were in opposition, there was a release in the autumn of 1998. And it was common people, it was municipalities and it was the business community in Norway that paid the bill at immediate interest rates. We've just tried that scheme. But we can spend more money in hospitals – of course, if we're able, as we do in this setting, we can spend more money on hospitals instead of other things, and not just brush them up on top. Then we get results without getting a price increase. That's the line we have to follow when we know that we have major challenges ahead of us in adopted reforms that are going to cost more and more, but are going to be carried out, in the care of the elderly, in the health sector, etc., when we know that social security costs are going to increase in the future, and when we know that we have a lot of work to do for business, because we're going to have a business to pay our pensions when we become pensioners. The sum total is the great promise that we've already decided for, or have to do anyway. Then it's important that we keep the order of the economy that we now have, in order to make this happen in such a way that we don't again lose the opportunity because of uncontrolled price and cost growth. It's an old expression that says it's going to be strong back to carry good times. Now we have good times, and now we have unique opportunities to follow up good welfare policy issues, good business development in Norway – if we have the back to prioritizing and putting one thing ahead of the other, and show the necessary traditional Norwegian precision that allows us to get a real and stable improvement. Then we need a robust economy that can withstand fluctuations in the oil price, because the fluctuations are going to come. We have to have the economy that can withstand those fluctuations. We have to thank you for the good times. And I'm going to say that the revised budget we're now dealing with is a positive contribution to that. I also address our proposals in these cases, including where the Workers' Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e389	Day Terje Andersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e394	The committee leader, Andersen, began by referring to the great aftermath that he thought lay after the previous government. He mentioned that this was an amount of approx. $3.5 billion, and that it was absolutely essential that you now cover this to preserve the tightness of the economy. At the same time, this little cut-off said that we found it necessary to repeat 75 times in the setting that there is actually a budget audit we're doing. It is because this is not a budgetary audit by the Government, but an attempt at countless rematches, an attempt to propose cuts in countless areas far beyond the definition of the revised Daag Terje Andersen. But in and out of it. For example, in an economy of over 500 billion dollars, these ‘modes’ amounting to DKK 3.5 billion could be used. have recovered through the increased tax revenue received by the country in the same period as those expenditures have incurred. That's $5.5 billion. But the money later the government that has not come in, or is not to be used, or is not to be taken into account in this containment logic. I think it might be interesting to hear the committee leader's explanation as to why everything else that has happened in the economy during this period should be taken into account and covered regardless of whether it affects the Norwegian economy or not. Here, too, there is money that has been used in a way that cannot be defined as a pure growth or an increase in activity in the economy. But that we've got 5.5 extra tax billions in, so we're going to pretend that's not there, and we're going to make life more sour and more difficult for the families of children, for business, and for a number of others that are affected by the petty cuts proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e404	It was basically well thought when I pointed out that it was right as the Progress Party said that revision should be an implementation message. It is possible she was a little surprised, that that's why I got the line back in the way that I now did. In the case of rematches, I believe that it is directly wrong. The point is that we believe that the DKK 3.5 billion is net expenditure increase, because we're actually talking about NOK 5.5 billion. I talked about the net amount that was left after, for example. increased returns and other increases in income that have come, and we believe from experience that has been done before, as late as 1998, that it is important that we stick to the framework that we have said is sound. That is why there are no rematches in the budget. There are some necessary cuts that lie there to get to this containment. It's actually how I was revised that day, said that we're going to put great emphasis on keeping the order that the government has set up, but we're willing to discuss every single cut in relation to other alternative cuts. Then it's not about political rematches, it's about some necessary containment needs that we've set ourselves completely open to discuss alternatives to. So it's a paradox, or a little funny, that Anders Lange's old party now actually has a higher consumption than SV in revised. It is a bit of a performance of a party that is skeptical to the public sector, in budgetary terms, to manage to get so high that they make SV appear to be relatively moderate. That's good work. But that does not mean that we would have a responsible financial arrangement if the Advance Party had presented it, would have been close to being adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e416	I noticed that the leader of the financial committee said that there was no willingness in the centre party to negotiate. You might want to ask yourself if it was the intention of the Workers' Party to extend – it depends on how you view it. What both the financial committee leader and many others from the Labour Party – the government party – say is that there are many unpaid bills. It was repeated over and over again and has been since the Workers' Party entered the government offices. Then is my question to the representative Andersen: Does the representative of Andersen believe that any workers' party government would have been far enough prepared to have budgeted all these extra costs if they had submitted a budget for the year 2000? If they have other sources to get material from than we have, it would be interesting for Stortinget to know that the Labour Party would have added all these additions already in the fall. Then the representative, Andersen, says that he is pleased that we can go here in Stortinget even further when it comes to investments in the hospital sector, than the government could do. Then I want to remind the representative that what the government did was cut off in the hospital sector, and that even in parallel with the fact that the prime minister was in Bergen and promised that in two years' time, all the problems in the hospital sector would be solved. I then ask Andersen if he feels that there is a parallel between the cuts that were really low from the Workers' Party's side, and the cleanup that will take place within two years. We know that there are major challenges in the hospital sector, and I think it's ambitious goals the Prime Minister has said he will meet. Andersen also says that the centre party and the right hand part of the budget come up with tax proposals in the middle of the year. The representative knows that these proposals should not be valid for the current year. But what the Labour Party is doing is that in the middle of the year they put extra burdens on business compared to the sick pay period. What is the prediction in that way of working?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e429	I'm going to be careful to get into it as Answerstad Haugland now called the negotiations, which we probably agreed were conversations, based on the centre's desire for conceptual use. I am definitely not going to get into the conversations we had, because almost all we really agreed on was that we should not report anything particularly from those conversations. But when it is suggested that there was no will in us to stretch, it is relatively far from the reality we experienced that negotiated. We already went much further than what was the starting point for the ordinary budget negotiations. Then I say no numbers, no details, but it shows who has shown willingness to negotiate. Even though I've said that we've run out of time, there's a concept of a changing majority in revision. But I have to say that for long periods of time I had a much greater sense of pursuing, that I kind of rode down to the center with the checkbook to try to find common insights on some good wishes. In the end, we succeeded so that we could finish this sport exercise with slumbers. In the case of unpaid bills, we use the term ‘unpaid bills’ on bills that lie there and are not paid. It has not been said that those bills would not have been there with other governments. With regard to the hospital economy, there was something the previous government should have known when they provided their budget. The size charged it, and one should come back to it in revised form. As far as Kosovo is concerned, it was also budgeted for six months. It's one way to do it, and it did so far the size. But there we knew that there was extra charge. In terms of popular security, it is simply the estimates that have been too low, and we cannot criticise the previous government for that. I also clarified that the tax proposal was supposed to work from next year, so I think that part of the line was simply a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e446	It is almost painful to intervene in this good-blinking between the centre and the Workers' Party, also called the persecution ride – I understand – in all friendship. I perceived the new chairman’s speech as perhaps more directed to his own party – for example. to the Oslo Working Society – than to this Assembly. I guess that's an expression that the Labour Party's problems at the moment are more to explain to their own party what they're doing than to others. We can, for example: Take up today’s chairman of the Newspaper – also known as Arbeiderbladet, at least in the old days – who points out that now the Minister of Finance and Prime Minister can no longer ‘place himself’ – as it is called – ‘on the sideline of the monetary policy debate’. They must now explain ‘LO and other confused observers the monetary policy objectives’. I do not know whether the chairman of the Financial Committee, from the same party, can contribute to informing the ‘confounded observers’ of monetary policy. I also want to hit a quote from the current Prime Minister, and it's no longer back than 11 May this year, where the Prime Minister gets questions from the Treasury about what to do if you have to tighten up the economy. The journalist questions whether to do so through fiscal or monetary policy. The Prime Minister said: ‘I believe it is fiscal policy and that it is only fiscal policy that can do so over time because of the competitive sector’.» Then my second specific question is to the Chair of the Financial Committee: why do you do the opposite? That's what's actually happening right now. Intensification is taking place today through interest rate increases. It hits those with the highest debt, the freshest debt, but it doesn't hit those who have money on the book — to put it that way. Is it a conscious social strategy for injustice? Or is it a rash of other things, which I can't quite explain?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e462	When it comes to explaining things to ‘confounded observers’, as the representative Foss called it, I sometimes have some doubts as to whether some people – then I don’t think of the environments that Foss mentioned, but some debaters in the debate on monetary policy in Norway – are really so ‘ confused observers’. I think some of them are observers who want to confuse, and some people just want a different system than the solidarity option we've stood for, and for which there's been a wide coverage in Stortinget. The quotes from the Prime Minister were good. I touched exactly the same thing in my post when it was about monetary policy and the signals that are revised on it – that is, no new signals in that area. But it's clear that someone means something else. Of course, there are people on the extreme right-wing wing, for example, which gives a smooth shaver in how unemployment develops. The overall objective of the solidarity option is to maintain a high level of employment and to be able to do so without inflationary pressures. It's hard. But when high employment is the overall goal, we have to try to get at things like that. It's clear that someone would rather let the hop, pure flow and let the time off be what it will be. But it's something other than what we stand for, really. Then it can hardly surprise anyone that Foss believes that we are tightening up too little in the revised version. Had we tightened another billion, Foss probably would have thought that we were tightening in too little. But I have found – and I have to admit with some satisfaction – that the Governor Gedrem actually pointed out that the financial policy had done his job in this round. That seems to me to be an important declaration of trust. He's not exactly known as any irresponsible ramp, the same Doorway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e471	Carl I. Hagen has asked for a few words to clarify a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e475	In its reply to the reply from Siv Jensen, the chairman of the Committee said that the $3.5 billion they want to cover is a net figure, i.e. a net decrease in the budget balance. There must be an obvious misunderstanding. See Table 1.3 on page 7 of St.prp. No 61 that gross increases are 5.2 billion kroner. Less increased interest income and increased share dividends will be net NOK 3,544 billion in the cost increase. On page 9 it appears that the tax revenue for mainland Norway has increased by NOK 5.6 billion. The net figure is a strengthening of the government budget surplus of NOK 2 billion. It's not a net, as the chairman of the committee said. On the contrary, taking the tax and tax increases, there will be a net profit improvement of NOK 2 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e480	Day Terje Andersen for the misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e483	I'm not sure if it really was a misunderstanding. The first thing the representative Hagen now referred to was exactly what I said. So I'm a little bit unsure of what was the misunderstanding in it. That was the net amount I talked about. So I've used a lot of other lines to say that I don't think it's good that we're getting a lot more money than into the economy. That's what we would do if we were to make additional adjustments to the tax revenue and put it on top. But the net containment demand was what I mentioned as NOK 3.5 billion, and so far the representative Hagen's review was a confirmation of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e490	Then the cord shift is finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e493	The purpose of the revised budget is to adjust the adopted government and national budget in relation to changes in the financial framework conditions or in specific needs for changes in appropriations that have occurred since the adoption of the ordinary budget. This has been the case with the Progress Party, which in turn will mean that in some areas we will actually vote against proposals that we would otherwise have been in favour of or promoted by ourselves in ordinary budgetary procedure. The basis for such a revised approach is, of course, the State budget from this autumn. It is necessary that the frameworks laid down by the Storting should apply as far as possible during a financial year at a time. It has a lot to do with predictability, and it has to do with all those who are going to deal with the decisions of the Stortinge, so that they can also budget and plan for one year at a time. When the Government presented its revised budget, it had to be considered to be an approximate new budgetary procedure, which, in my opinion, is contrary to the budget reform of the Grand Duchy and which in addition gives the Finance Committee unnecessary extra work, especially when it is only justified by the Government that they need money for other purposes, or that it is a part of the general tightening exercise of the Government. But what kind of exercise is that? You cut hospital equipment, in road appropriations, leave out the job of the police high school students, whooping in defense, whooping in the hospital transfers, will tighten up the construction of hospitals – and this is done in the middle of the year, with no good reason. And as if that's not enough, the government on top of it manages in its customary argument for the need for rigor to make heads for crown-coverings that don't hang on. This means that the Government does not have the ability to adapt fiscal policies to the actual situation. Both the Government and several key policymakers have stressed that the most important thing is rigour. But that's wrong. The most important aspect of the budget is the alignment of fiscal policies with different parts of the economy. But long-term thinking and overall grip are getting less and less space for knifeing about small money. Then you can sometimes feel a little dedicated to the time as a municipal politician, where you were sitting and dealing with proposals for budget changes on a few hundred thousand here and a few hundred thousand there. So that's what we're doing within a state budget of over 500 billion dollars. But there is not so much drama in this revised budget, and that is probably also why the major headlines have been missing or the turbulence in the political environment is not present. Also, the revised budget should not be the occasion for political rematching. But the government has also tried more. In a way, you have to accept that the fights you take during the autumn budgetary procedure, some of them you win, and some of them you lose. And then you get to accept it for a year, and then take the new fights again when the next budget is going to be dealt with. We have focused on responsible and balanced management of the audited, and we have given priority to making some progress towards next year's government budget. But we have also taken responsibility for following up decisions and majority remarks from the budget procedure in the autumn, over which the government elegantly jumped. And the first is about the situation for the police. In the fall it was a very central theme, and it was promised that all the newly graduated high school police students would get a job. Then comes the revised budget, and then you forgot to add the 60 million needed. kr for this to be taken into account. There is now a majority in spite of the government. And some of us have actually tried to straighten out the defense framework, but that's not the majority of us. Nor can we accept what is adopted tonight, a proposed cut of 760 million. kr in hospital investments. That money is to be used to cover this so-called unpaid bill in Kosovo and a number of other things. For $760 million. There could have been quite a lot of hospital equipment purchased, but it will not be done by the political majority, despite the fact that it has only advantages for Norway. We're treated more patients, which, once again, means we're getting sick pay down and getting more people to work. And that must be good. So yesterday, in a debate in Stortinget, the Social Minister said that it was just as good that we cut, because the money would not be spent – and referred to the municipalities as having poor finances. Why has the government not taken the consequences of it by ensuring that the county actually can afford to buy hospital equipment? It didn't matter. There is also every reason to be tired of the unfurnished fiscal debate that arises as a result of increased expenditure in one area being covered in crowns in another area, regardless of how that crown works in the Norwegian economy. So the budgetary balance and so-called tightness have become more important to the majority and government than the real challenges and problems that are directly ahead of us in several areas of society. And it has been illustrated by the Government in a very good way when it believes that it can use unhelpful money to balance the domestic economy without having consequences for tightness and budgetary balance. A krone used for investments works differently in the economy than a krone used for operations. A krone used abroad seems completely different from a krone used in the domestic economy. But the economic debate in Norway is marked by the total absence of the ability to discuss how the money works differently in the economy. The finance minister has even said that the priorities we take in the government, but when you in the Stortinget are going to start working on this, it's not that careful, because the chalk line is set. So just keep prioritizing, you, and fighting about the political things without taking into account how it works on the economy. It's no wonder that we get a front-end economic debate, which also has the consequence that we don't give priority to the things we really need to prioritise. So a little bit about monetary policy. We have just received a new interest rate increase from the Bank of Norway. At my discretion, it is also the responsibility of the Government, because the Government has had every opportunity to prevent this increase in interest rates by operating a much more active and nuanced fiscal policy, which it has chosen not to do. In February, when the governor held his year, he said that the tax and tax pressure in Norway was now so high that it would in turn have consequences for the settlement of wages because a large settlement would be required. And then the governor drew as a logical consequence that if you didn't do anything with the vicious circle, the interest would go up. The government was completely passive throughout the payroll system and chose not to make any attempt to reduce tax and tax pressure to compensate for this, so interest was increased. What is the problem of Norwegian monetary policy today is that the mandate for monetary policy is very unclear. It's particularly good to see through LO's somewhat confused approach to what's now happening. The LO still believes that monetary policy is governed as directed under the previous governor, keeping the objective of a stable krone price higher than the objective of keeping low inflation in Norway. The central bank manager has repeatedly said that it is now the domestic economic situation that stands at the head of monetary policy rather than the development of the exchange rate. After all, we have had a change in monetary policy. But it has not taken the government inwards by informing the Storting in an appropriate way that we have now received a change, and they have at least not taken the consequences by changing the mandate of the Bank of Norway and changing the currency regulation, so that it becomes clear to everyone who is going to deal with this, and then the consequence is that we are paying a risk premium for an unclear mandate through higher interest rates. I believe that the economist and Prime Minister Stoltenberg should see that such an unclear mandate actually has the confusing consequences as it does, and contribute to clearing it up by clarifying the mandate of the Bank of Norway. Finally, let me inform you that the Progress Party will vote in favour of proposal No. 27, relating to cap. 463, which is a minority proposal from the Centre linked to the Data Protection Authority. Things have happened since we gave the setting that makes us think it necessary to join that proposal. I would also like to address all the minority proposals of the Progress Party on which we stand either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e529	Siv Jensen has addressed the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e534	The representative Siv Jensen and the Progress Party may seem logical, but I wonder if it hangs together sometimes, if it hangs on. In the Financial Newspaper yesterday, there is a relatively large notice that the auction wind around the UMTS auctions on the continent may now have turned around: ‘Tele Denmark withdraws from the auction in Germany and France cancels the entire auction.’;» There is reason to believe that France has taken the EU seriously in its objections to the auction procedure. The EU believes that the auction loses the players so much that it will be very negative on terms with customers, i.e. consumers, in these countries. The natural question for the representative Siv Jensen must then be: In the setting for the award of mobile concessions that Stortinget dealt with yesterday, the Progress Party was concerned about the additional cost of a concession fee of between 100 and 200 million. kr would lead to consumers. But so it is that the same Progress Party in today's adjustment to revised balances or covers that these telecommunications companies will be auctioning out with an unfathomable 10 billion kroner. Who but the consumers is responsible for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e546	You can't believe, whether you're auctioning off these licenses or you're charging them, that at last there won't be anyone who'll have to pay for it. I think that's something simple. Then you refer to the Financial Newspaper yesterday. I would like to refer to the Financial Newspaper today where this is again a topic, and where it is said: ‘It is clear that European authorities have learned from the British auction how valuable the UMTS licences are for companies.’; It says something about this being a hot debate in most other countries, just not here. Then I have a question back to the Workers' Party. If in this situation, for example, we have five pieces that are interested in participating in this, but where one of them is willing to pay more than the others, how does the Workers' Party intend to solve it? I have to remind you that this is kind of a shortcoming that it is up to the authorities to put the framework conditions in order to work. It's true that we've calculated with significantly greater revenues than the other parties in terms of UMTS auctions, but according to these precious budgetary indicators that all of the batches relate to and that they fold on their chests, and that show who in the class is the best person to be tight, we're the ones that come out tighter in the class -- despite that it's not right. We've long recognized that we spend more money than the others. But according to the budgetary indicator used by all the parties and used to define the tightness of the budget, we are strict. There is some evidence that the budgetary indicator is no longer a suitable instrument for assessing the impact of the grips we are doing on the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e560	The Christian People's Party is busy giving business good conditions for development and growth. That's why I think of the common position with the Progress Party on these areas as positive, among other things. that we are united in rejecting the Workers' Party Government's proposals to remove the reimbursement scheme for seafarers and the extra cost that the Government would impose on business by increasing the employer's liability for sick pay. This is good. The representative, Siv Jensen, was also very busy in his statement that the audit of the budget should focus on adjustments in the current budget, which I may be agreed on. But there must be the possibility of making the changes that are necessary from the developments that have occurred, and then I want to ask the Progress Party whether they have been entirely consistent in recommending decisions in this matter, for example. by including an income of DKK 10 billion in the event of a mobile phone rights auction, to which the representative Mr Kaldhol was now entitled. I want to ask the representative Siv Jensen: on what basis has the Progress Party arrived at that number, and are there only adjustments? What impact will such a decision have on business, on consumers? I am interested in getting an answer to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e567	This entire budget audit can be summarised in the position table here. I don't think it's ever been that thick. Here's a proposal for a cut of 900,000 kroner, of 1 million dollars. NOK 2,5 million. However, all the proposals made by the Government at least have not come because we have a difficult economic situation in this nation. They're here because you're wrong to try to represent it as if we have a deposit need of $3.5 billion, which we don't have. We've got an extra $5.5 billion in tax revenue that's been kept out, and if they had been taken in line with all the other things that the government thinks are absolutely necessary, we would have had a surplus since the budget was adopted. It's like we're in a dramatic situation, and we have to cut and make things harder for most people, to keep this tight. That's not right! With regard to this question of UMTS auctions and amounts, we have received a response from the Ministry of Transport to this, where, among other things, we have. have shown you the round you had in the United Kingdom. It would not be unreasonable to assume that that amount is very close to what we could obtain in Norway by conducting such auctions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e574	The representative Siv Jensen here today repeats what she said to the evening post on Thursday: ‘Minister of State Jens Stoltenberg blames Norway’s Bank for increasing its interest rate again. Stoltenberg was warned by the Governor of the Central Bank as early as February that the settlement of wages could lead to an increase in interest rates.» I assume that the representative Jensen is aiming for is that when the wage settlement was more expensive than planned, Stoltenberg should have compensated for a fiscal tightening, in order to avoid the central bank manager Gedrem setting up the interest rate vigorously. Jensen doesn't like the increased interest rate. The only way to avoid it for the wage-earnings framework is neither Jens Stoltenberg nor Stortinget decide that it would have been known to reduce the public expenditure growth. As the representative Jensen warned against a startling economic debate, I think we can quickly agree that tax cuts are good and good, but at least this does not lead to any lower temperature in the Norwegian economy. But what is the Progress Party doing in its revised budget? The expenditure growth in the budget would have increased by almost 1 percentage point with the arrangement of the Progress Party, more than with any other party's arrangement, and even by almost twice the increase in the growth of the public expenditure proposed by the SV. The main trend in the budget of the Progress Party seems to be to go against spending cuts, support expenditure increases and propose own expenditure increases in addition. Then I understand that the budget indicator is rejected by the Stortinget, which works well. But it's going to be a high price to pay for the Advance Party's policy. With the revised budget of the Progress Party, we would go from a neutral budget to a much more expansive one, and there is also keeping out hospital investment. My question to the representative Jensen is therefore: if she thinks that there is a higher interest rate as a result of Jens, how much higher interest does she think it will be as a result of Jensen?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e589	Yes, that test hasn't been put on the Norwegian community yet, so it's a little hard to imagine. Firstly, through my reasoning, I try to demonstrate that the budgetary indicator does not work as planned. But if the budgetary indicator is as excellent as the representative Burnde says, we must get that credit at the same time because we are the best in the class. It doesn't matter what the representative Burnde says when he first says that we increase the expenses the most and do a lot of work that the representative Burnde seems to be completely headstrong, and that in the next moment we come out as a best man in the class. It shows how useless the whole budget indicator is. So to this with the underlying expenditure growth. It comes as a natural consequence of us revising the budget and not engaging in political change. When the Progress Party makes its alternative government budget in the fall, we have a negative underlying expenditure increase because we have the ability to cut significantly in the public expenditure that we feel is unnecessary for the state to operate. So to this with increased interest rates. It's not about whether I like the interest rate going up or not. This is about the interaction between monetary policy and fiscal policy. But now let it also be said that it is not certain that the most correct and best thing for the Norwegian economy now will be to continue to pursue a contractual fiscal policy. Perhaps we should start to pursue an expansive fiscal policy, precisely because we are now seeing signs of a sharp increase in unemployment. I think that's more surprising. The latest forecasts indicate 90 000 unemployed. The last time we were at that level, there were big banners at Youngstorget, where the Workers' Party went to the frontal attack on the policy that was being pursued, and would do what they could to get the unemployment down. Now they're sitting quietly watching, and I think that's much more disturbing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e600	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e603	The Centre Party has been given too much in this revised budget. I am therefore tempted to write about something that the Minister of Finance opened up in a budget debate when he was the head of the Finance Committee a few years ago. Then he said that he was pleased that there were several main features of the government's proposal. I would like to say it this way: I am pleased that the Labour Party, the Right Party and the Progress Party, together, separately, secures the plurality of the main lines of the Centre Party's proposals relating to the revision of the national budget. Because it's absolutely true that the committee leader said that it was the Labour Party that came running after, among other things. the centre party's cut-off proposals for a good impact on new priorities. I have noticed that there are changes to something over 1,500 million. kr on both the expenditure side and the income side. Center forms a part of the multiple of almost all these changes. That's just the multiple to move 2 million. kr under the Ministry of the Environment we are not in. But in order to correct that, we are going to vote in favour of the proposal here today. So, not least in order to find better alternatives to the government's own proposals for containment, the center party has been implemented. The budget we are adopting today is a responsible budget. The opposition has acted responsibly this year, taking co-responsibility to ensure recovery for increased expenditure, yes, large expenditure. I can't say I experienced the opposition last year as constructive. This budget provides a good basis for good development in the Norwegian economy. The budget is at least as tight as one could expect. Therefore, there should also be no basis for debtting fiscal policies in order not to contribute to a stable development of the Norwegian economy. However, if the budget framework is responsible, there is a lot we would like to see changed. The most disappointing thing about the Government's proposal to the revised national budget was the reduction of nearly half a billion in the funds for aid purposes. This was a disappointing suggestion. After the Prime Minister, in an innumerable number of interviews before and after he became Prime Minister, placed great emphasis on how concerned he was with international solidarity, it was also a rather surprising proposal. So far, the only government has found room within the aid framework, a promise of means to the WHO's vaccine campaign, and they also got it from a proper government, according to the boss. Of course, the growth of all children in the world is a very good purpose. But I'm asking myself if not exactly this campaign could have gotten the necessary funds from private donors. We'll see, for example. Bill Gates is a major contributor to this campaign. The Bondevik government had to go because the majority of the population would impose an environmental policy on the government that we could not take responsibility for. The government of Stoltenberg has followed this up in its draft revised budget. Contrary to the Labour Party, when Stortinget manages the Energy Communication, it reduces the effort on energy savings and new renewable energy sources. This investment should be increased. After all, the working party agreed that 5 billion will be set aside in ten years to invest in renewable energy sources. The revised national budget is a bad start, and unfortunately the Right and the Advance Party are involved. But within the environment, there are also things that you can enjoy, not in the government's own suggestions, but in the majority that have been put in place. The government would invest less in liming. It would have affected the effort in many waters and streams. We've prevented that from happening. The government would also reduce efforts for Local Agenda 21 and the drive for the development of local climate action plans. We've got the government party to fix this. The government's draft budget was an attack on Norwegian business. The proposal to extend the sick pay period would impose additional costs on industry of about 300 million. kr. In addition, it would cost the municipalities 100 million in extra expenses in the middle of the year. Norwegian businesses need stable and long-term framework conditions. Our competitive edge is not lit with uncertainty about such matters. The government's proposal came only months before the Sandman selection to submit its report on the sickness scheme. I think the work in this selection is likely to be non-changed just before the interview. I also think it would have been more difficult to find good compromises if we just before the selection were to finish their work, adding extra costs to one of the social partners, i.e. the employers, while the workers were fully shielded. I am pleased that the majority in Stortinget has arranged for us to continue recruiting Norwegian seafarers for Norwegian boats. The Centre Party is associated with the Right Party and the Progress Party and rejects the proposal to cut out the reimbursement scheme for seafarers. Within parts of the same industry, they also have reason to rejoice that the majority reject the proposal for an increase in CO2 tax on domestic maritime freight and supply. For the supply bill, increasing the CO2 charge could lead to a choice of going to a port in other countries where one would carry out bunkers and other purchases. For the coastal cargo fleet, an increase in the CO2 charge would make freight by sea less competitive. At the same time, when we lower the diesel tax, it would shift the competitive relationship between road transport and maritime transport in the wrong direction. We want to facilitate the transport of goods from car to boat, not the other way around. Sjukehusa's economic situation has been the subject of several debates, most recently in Stortinget Tuesday. There's no doubt that hospitals need a lift. But it is also necessary in hospitals to look at the organisation and use of resources. I am pleased that, by decision on Tuesday and today together, the hospital secures 520 million more for operation in the current year. It'll come along well. The Ministry has by letter to the Committee assures us that it is possible to reduce the fees for hospital equipment this year, because it is technically planned for the next payment to the county in March 2001. We have focused on this and expect the Government to return with enough resources in the 2001 budget. Otherwise, I also find reason to ask why they answered the committee's question about the investment in hospital equipment, was so different from the Christian People's Party asked the question in the initial phase of the committee's work on the Workers' Party's question some time later, in the final phase. I want to draw up some of the other points that we have secured in this budget. The research policy that was pursued together in the past has led to major problems for many of those who attended school at the time. So I'm glad we've got multiples to create a common fund of 75 million. Many foreign students have experienced a worsening of their economic situation after a change in the price of the Norwegian krona in relation to the currency of the country in which they study. I'm also glad that we've got multiples to fix this. I am also pleased that we have received funds that can secure foreign students from North Norway scholarships to travel abroad. Before the transport sector, there are many measures that need more resources. So I'm glad that we've got a multiple of 120 million. kr for important actions. Not least, it is important for the Christian People's Party to ensure that the ferry supply in the districts is not weakened. The increase in licenses for operation and maintenance is therefore very happy. I'm also pleased that we have found room to put back some of the government's proposed cuts on fixed decks on highways. We've also got multiple counts against most of the government's cuts in transfers to the families of children. There will be no shortening of the period of cash support. There will also be no abbreviation for the infant plug-in. Unfortunately, the Right plural succeeds in reducing the period of child welfare by one month. The central parties’ proposals for the revised national budget are a clear priority for important purposes. We're strengthening the hospital sector. We protect business by rejecting an increase in sick pay and reducing the government's cuts in SND. We protect our children's families against reduced transfers. We are going against much, and all the most difficult, proposals for cutting aid. We're increasing the environmental investment in relation to the government's proposal. As you can see, the central party's proposals are a continuation of the central government's political profile. I'm taking up all the suggestions from the center party and where the center party is proposal makers together with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e645	Selected City of Reply Haugland has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e650	I think that after the representative Svarstad Haugland and others left the government offices, at least for a while it was such that we could see that there was some mutual understanding between us and those who had left the government offices, about what are the real political and economic challenges. It has, among other things, the need to find broad, coherent solutions, for example, through the emergence of both Answerstad Haugland and other former members of the government. in the future of the population, because there are important issues of distribution policy. Now it's enough that in the last few days' discussion about the equalization message, the municipal arrangement and so on, we may have had a bit of an impression that the most expansive period of the previous government has obviously been since it went off. There are beginning to get promises far beyond those of the previous government itself found proper earlier, but now let it lie in this round. I'd rather ask Answerstad Haugland about the distributive effects of the few differences that are actually between us and the central parties in the revised national budget. For example, we know that many new compatriots have adaptation difficulties in the labour market, they are often said to be the weakest in society, at least the weakest in terms of entering the labour market. How can it be justified that those who have the most difficulty in the labour market are now to be affected by the fact that the centre parties will actually cut off labour market measures only a few days after we have discussed soothsaying? On the same basis, how can Svarstad Haugland defend that at the same time as the next year, $2.5 billion in tax bills is promised to those who have the most of them? Is this good policy for distribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e657	There are several things one could address in the representative Andersen's question to me. I will try to answer at least the two questions that I felt were most important. The first went on with the Equalisation message in relation to labour market measures. Then I want to remind the representative that in the fall we increased that post quite a lot. What we're seeing is that it's not exactly unemployment that is the big challenge in Norwegian society today, and it would be enough with resources left in the labour market to be able to help those who are the toughest in terms of unemployment, after the cuts that we proposed. We see from the forecasts that are coming, that the increase in unemployment that some predicted last year has been much less than predicted. We also know that in many areas there is indeed pressure on the labour market to get more workers, and we are talking about getting more immigrants to the country because we need a workforce. So that proposal I don't feel that hard to defend from a smoothing point of view either. So to these 2.5 billion in tax bills as the representative says we've proposed next year. First of all, it's tax-free in the business world to secure jobs, so maybe we can use less government money to get people out of work. Secondly, I see that the industrial policy selection of the Workers' Party spends SEK 1.5 billion on the proposal to remove the wealth tax on working capital. We know that the Ministry of Finance has a tendency to calculate ‘worst case’ if there's something they're not some of what they're asking about, and what we're seeing from Opseth and some other workers' party people is that they're proposing the same thing that we've suggested. I'm not always the same in what Opseth suggests, but this time I agree with him.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e664	The Progress Party has long argued that the use of money works differently in the economy, for example. money spent abroad on hospital equipment, new cars for police, etc. seems different from the money spent in Norway. This has been largely rejected by the other parties, including the Christian People's Party. Now many prominent economists have gone into the press and supported the view of the Progress Party, and in a recent debate in the Stortinget on fuel taxes, the Minister of Finance actually let the cat out of the bag. He said that the reason is really afraid of change in public budgetary procedures – i.e. fear that the Storting will focus too much on certain items rather than others. To put it that way with the terminology of the slim industry: we get yes-money and no-money in the budgetary procedure. When the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Vidar Ovesen, in an article in Today's Business, says almost a word for word the same, then a questioner can ask who came first, the chicken or the egg, or who controls who. The question is: how does the representative of Svarstad Haugland react to such a total lack of confidence in Storting's ability to give priority to different expenditures by the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance? After this information, will the Christian People's Party be more willing to look at the disparate use of money in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e669	It's interesting to get such a question from a representative from the Progress Party, because the way they're most used to balancing the budget is to take off the money that really goes out of the country, the ones that go to help. And it's not just $0.5 billion they use to balance the aid budget with, but very often $1.5. In the revised national budget this year, they have not done so, but I will not be very surprised if such a balancing will come when the Progress Party will present its alternative budget at the budget procedure of the Autumn. So to the question. I will not comment on the statement from the Ministry of Finance, which I believe the Minister of Finance may be allowed to make. But the Document No. The 8th proposal, which the Progress Party is promoting, went into an own foreign budget that could then give very vehement priorities in relation to our total budget and in a way would highlight all that we could have produced abroad as positive. It could have gone over again, for example. Norwegian jobs, which might produce the same. But we would have another impact on the Norwegian economy if we did this. However, I am not unknown about the budget routines and the weighing. We know that in the Ministry of Finance there is a weighting in relation to foreign and domestic priorities. We're not doing the same thing when we're working on budgets here in Stortinget, and from the Christian People's Party side, we're not unwilling to go in and look at the details in relation to this. But I want to remind the Progress Party that one of the really good posts – if one wants to spend money without having a big impact on the Norwegian economy – is to give the money to those who need them much more than any of us, the poorest in the developing world.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e678	I was especially pleased to hear that the leader of the Christian People's Party now said that they were happy to strengthen the hospital sector, because it is no more than a few months since their own Health Minister, Dagfinn Højbräten, actually thought that it was not necessary, and that is, of course, his budget we are now reviewing. We're all concerned that we should increase the treatment capacity, so that we can treat more patients. But even though we get more and more doctors and spend more money, we see that the cows are growing. Therefore, the Right for a long time has pointed out that with the money for hospitals, it must also follow changes in organisation and funding. We need to have a national responsibility for hospitals, combined with a great deal of local freedom for hospital management to operate hospitals as they see it most sensible. And then we have to get this right to treatment soon, so that patients are treated within a medically sound deadline. I therefore think it was very positive that we could read in the evening post, last week it was well that Bondevik opened up that the Christian People's Party will now look at the county municipality in the same way as the Right and Advance Party – that it has become an unnecessary level of administration. So I want to ask Walterd Reply City Haugland if we can now hope that the Right Party and the Advance Party will at least follow the Christian People's Party and the Left in getting rid of the County Municipality, so that we actually get to spend less money on bureaucracy and more money on direct patient treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e687	I want to distance myself from the fact that former Minister of Health Dagfinn Høybräten said that there was no need for more money in the hospital sector. It was actually he who reduced the selection, which was broadly composed, to look at the overall economic situation in the health sector. It then came to an actual cost of more than $2 billion. What we would possibly put in our revised budget will be a secret because we didn't get it presented, but it's obvious that the hospital sector is one of the areas that we had prioritised in our revised budget. And I'm glad we got something in addition to what was adopted on Tuesday, and I get something in today's decision that is being made. So over to the discussion of the county council and the play of Bondevik. It's actually quite a long time since we in the Christian People's Party said we could imagine looking at the different levels of government. Now this is going to be a pretty long discussion in our party, and we're going to have program processing and a national meeting for spring that will take the final position as to whether we want to shut down the county council. I'm not going to advance it, because I also know that there is a lot of resistance in our organisation, but at the same time I feel that there are more and more people who are more positive about it than it was a few years ago. What is an important argument in that discussion is at least what we can do to strengthen the local authorities' situation. And if there are funds left after such a closure, it's a little late for the hospital sector, because it's going to clean up Stoltenberg in two years. But I don't know where to go the funds that any of them might save on it. There are a lot of areas in the social sector that need extra funds, I think we're all painfully aware of that. The problem today is that we have a huge increase in the private economy and not so much increase in the public sector. There I would also like to have a discussion with the Right about how we can better manage our resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e696	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e700	The last speaker came to say that what the previous government had intended to put forward is secret, but it's obvious that you can live a long time on these secrets. And if I can put it this way, I have to say that the Bondevik government was probably the best at the proposals it never made, but as it later said it had intended to make progress. But that's how it can often be in life. This debate has also evolved into a debate if we cannot change the rules of the game a little while we are in progress. I think that lack of a team that participates in the EM in football could think of it, or possibly replace the judge – it could be linemen or others. Now it is enough that budgetary indicators are to be used wisely, and it is quite right that there is no clear answer, one budgetary indicator that gives the absolutely complete answer. Yes, it is even possible to use the indicators in a purely parochial way. One of them is, for example, to measure the rigour by increasing the long-term operating costs and financing them with a one-off income, but it is really to push the problems ahead. That's what the Progress Party does. The one-time income of NOK 10 billion has been found by waking up, putting your finger in the air and thinking about a number, and they've reached the exact amount of NOK 10 billion. It's a gross number for the first, because there's a cost of it, that's a cost that's the part of the UMTS network that can't be built on a commercial basis, but I'll leave that to me. The main thing is that this is not an expression of a real tightness in the budget, so the right has not used the tightness as an indicator and truth response in the past. But we've pointed out that the important thing about a budget is how it works in the economy also in the longer term, that's what's called the underlying expenditure growth, it's a relatively objective way of measuring actual expenditure. Then you can measure the expenditure in relation to the growth of the economy, and then it is that if the expenditure of the government budget is growing more strongly than the growth of the economy, the public sector is gradually increasing, and then the private sector becomes smaller. Of course, you can discuss whether or not the cake can also be increased. Nevertheless, it is becoming smaller in the private sector whose public sector is also increasing within this growing cake. So you could say that this is a budget that is just an audit. Yes, it is. But it is now time for a revision of a budget to take account of developments in the economy. The State budget was written last autumn, relatively early in the autumn. At that time, the forecasts for growth in the economy were that the GDP of mainland Norway would grow below the percentage. In fact, indicators — these are the macroeconomic indicators, which the Progress Party believes in this respect in the main — have adjusted so that the growth of the domestic economy has become more than twice as high as foreseen. The growth in price increases is more than foreseen, the growth in wages is increasing more than foreseen. In short, the temperature of the economy has increased, the labour shortage has increased. It is not illegal, and it is even a requirement for both the staging and the government to take these matters into account when adjusting the budget. Therefore, it is not an adjustment of the budget just to put on the autopilot and late that nothing has happened, then you can get a abdominal landing. You should not have excessive faith in fine governance of the economy in the middle of a year, but you are allowed to look around and adjust what is possible to adjust. Not everything is possible to adjust, but quite a lot is. Nor is it the case that our budgetary system is such that there is no political opinion in the budget. In fact, the Progress Party has now come to the conclusion that they are the party that is the main source of public expenditure growth in the revision of the budget. It doesn't sound like it fills political expectations, to say the least, and it's not a technique that requires us to do it this way, that is to say, a system that would force parties that are too low public expenditure to become followers of the highest public expenditure. It'll be a pretty stupid system. Of course it's not like that. This is an expression of political laxity, nothing but it. Then you can be in doubt when you hear the representative Siv Jensen – I guess it was a misunderstanding – talk about a more expansive economic policy to meet what she calls a massive increase in unemployment. The last part of the reasoning reminds me a little bit of what some economists in the LO have said on regular occasions, but I was perhaps a little surprised that this violent growth in the budget was going to give rise to the fact that the public sector is growing. These are good reasons, for example: to the next year to see if growth in the economy of competitive business cannot be stimulated, it is obvious. However, raising the issue of a strong expansionary budgetary policy in the public sector may not be particularly suitable today in the economy. Already last fall, the Right was in the middle of a little of the same warning that the budget that was then adopted was too expansive. I guess we've got a pretty good deal right about that. The budget set aside last autumn was based on a relatively creative calendar budgeting. Both the center and the Workers' Party saw that there were uncovered bills. They pushed the bills in front of them. Everyone knew that the Kosovo forces were not going out in July, but the budget seemed to be going out in July. There are no budgetary indicators that force you to do something like that, it's just creative budgeting. For example, when you have: pushes the implementation of tax reductions until 1 December, then there is creative budgeting, and there is nothing in the system that forces you to do so. It's an expression of political distress or laxity. In other words, when both the centre and the working party last autumn pushed the problems ahead, the clearing job was now suspended in the revised national budget. What could possibly be expected from this common danger to the budget – one has changed the side of the table correctly, the government has become opposition, and the opposition has become government, but in any case they are – is that one had learned from the mistakes of last year, namely to push the problems ahead. You haven't. This time you also push the problems still ahead. A budget of 764 million. SEK in the budget for hospital equipment – i.e. investments – will be cut by 760 million. So we're going to have $4 million left over. kr. This is not an expression of wanting to invest less in hospital equipment. No, but it'll be done later. In other words, you push the problems in front of you. When you cut the defenses by 500 million. kr, everyone – at least almost everyone – assures that it is not an expression of a deliberate reduction in defence, but you also push the problems in front of you in this way. When you don't make a debt cancellation in relation to the actual losses in the Loan Fund for students this year, you do it next year. This simply means one thing: the problems for those who are going to make the budget next year have become bigger. There's going to be billions of fresh money to make it jump next year. I guess there's no comfort for those with government power. The only strategic thing I can see in it is those with opposition responsibility for this, in other words center. Some people have probably suggested that there is some kind of revenge in this. I'll let that lie. It's the press that suggests such malicious thoughts. We have sought from the Right to find a budget that actually reduces the pressure in the economy somewhat, but not violently. That's not all you can do when revising a budget, but our budget ensures a slightly better balance, somewhat lower growth in underlying expenditure than both the majority and the centre do. As I said, it is not the whole world to do in a budget, but the important thing is in many ways the budgetary signals about the policy that comes. That is why I want to draw attention to the longer-term grips, what we called structural policy, and what under the government of Harlem Brundtland was called measures to improve the functioning of the economy. I want to sum up the grips, the structural policy, in five points. Firstly, to carry out a systematic simplification of our entire administrative system. Now it's time to stop looking at the levels of government, but do something about it. Here are some interesting signals, not least from the centre, at the latest in the last row from the representative Svarstad Haugland. There is money to be recovered by abolishing the county council, delegating more to the primary municipality and letting hospitals be directly managed by the state. We don't need much to manage, we need more for service directly to the users. By implementing at administrative level a mandatory bidding round and clearly distinguishing the role of government as a producer and ordering it, there is also a means to collect funds from a large public sector in Norway. Economists consistently point to — and here economists fully agree — that one of the areas in which Norway is currently lagging behind is in total economic productivity. We cannot allow that in a situation where the pressure in the economy is as strong as it is. Secondly, we need to increase labour supply. In its report, the OECD points out very clearly that the labour shortage is the largest pressure factor in the Norwegian economy. If you don't do anything about it, you get the answer: you get interest increases, which have an unfair distribution effect. We need to increase both productivity and access to labour, we need fewer regulation, less bureaucracy and better opportunities for labour immigration, and we need to be willing to look at some of the schemes that relate to support for unemployment. Thirdly, the state ownership of business needs to be professionalised and reduced. Today, what is associated with state ownership is far too much a sleeping cushion. Here the public can get more out of the money by professional management and by privatisation. Fourthly, we do not get away with the need to change tax and tax systems either. We have an too high level in some areas. In the long term, if we are to be able to increase growth when the oil sector is reduced, it must be more attractive for both Norwegian and foreign companies to set up businesses in Norway. It is today a huge tax dynamic across Europe. EU countries are striving to cut taxes and taxes in order to attract new businesses. We cannot participate fully in this, but we cannot close our eyes because it affects Norway quite directly and effectively. Fifthly, everyone who has been in government is concerned with one main problem, namely the automatic increase in the expenditure of the population. I recorded that Prime Minister Bondevik was not talking about this while he was prime minister. When he became the opposition leader, he arranged for a broad settlement to do something about this. It would have been a worthwhile play for a prime minister. Right do something with that. When we do something about it, we get criticism of Bondevik. We've done something about, and not just looked at, sick pay. No later than today, we received figures that clearly demonstrate the need to do something about disability. When we can experience studies that show that 56 pst. Of those who are unsatisfied, not feeling bad — in fact, they think they can do something — then there is something about the legislation and the offer of reintroduction that obviously calls for political action. You can read a lot of interesting things in the budget. In today's debate and in a previous debate, it has been focused on why we can't spend more money, when we have so much. I would like to refer, especially the press, to page 43 of the message. This budget paper says that the state's commitments in the form of already earned pension, i.e. entitlements, were NOK 2 633 billion per year. 1999: The year. It's more than twice the entire Norwegian gross domestic product. At the end of this year — the same intersection, 1999 — the petroleum fund was NOK 220 billion, not even a tenth of the country’s commitments. Those who say that there is an abundance of money do not see that there is a large deficit in this pension account. The Minister of Finance has calculated the deficit. If we were to keep the budget according to the same rules as for a municipality in terms of provisions for future pensions, the deficit would be calculated at the lower of NOK 30 billion. In the budget, there are estimates that indicate that if the budget were to be carried out in what we call a generational balance sheet, with provisions for those who are to pay future pension liabilities, the budget should have been a place between 5 and 20 billion kr tighter than it is today. In other words, it is possible to view the budget as something more than just a short-term cyclical regulator — look at the long-term effects of the budget, generational justice, and do something about the long-term measures. It's urgent to start that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e754	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e757	Right-wing contributions to the cushioning of the poor and rich in this country in the debate on the Equalisation Communication, which we dealt with in the Storting a few days ago, were tax reliefs. If we gave more tax relief, it would seem daunting. The Labour Party is not as strong in the belief as the Right that tax relief is the political grips that are needed to achieve a better cushioning. In fact, the Workers’ Party also believes that it is possible to smooth out the tax system, but then the relief must come to those who serve at least and own little. That's not what the Right believes. And that's the opposite of this Right goes in for, when they want to lower the property tax by $2.5 billion to next year. Right will, as you know, keep a tight budget. In other words, the tax reliefs shall be covered. Therefore, it is interesting to ask the representative Foss: who is going to pay the income loss of DKK 2.5 billion? Are these the same groups as those proposed by the Right in the revised budget this year? I'll give you some examples. Is it the employees who have to pay, and only get 50 pst. in wages and salaries, the first days they are ill, and then 90 pst.? Is that the aid to the poorest to be cut down on? Or is it the labour market seat and measures, which get more into the job vacancies and reduces the number of new unemployees? Is that the educational support for the lonely? Are there technical aids for disabled persons? What is it? All these measures provide more labour – as requested by the representative Foss.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e768	I'm not sure if the learning process for the Workers' Party in the opposition has been long enough. This is, of course, a line that from old days, for a number of actions the representative asks whether it should be cut, has actually also been cut off by the Government. Something has to be done to make the budget tighter. If you are not willing to take some big and long-term grip, which I spent half of my post sketching – before the line was written – you have to do with the short-term ones, but I recommend doing something with the long-term grips. It seems more socially fair and easier to predict the effect than just taking the short-term ones. Then to the second. If you don't do anything over the budget, it's not like nothing's happening. The representative can then give his greeting to his constituents and tell them the following: This government will not cut the budget. Instead, you will have to pay more for your mortgage. And that's very fair, the representative should tell, because it hits those who have the highest loan, and it doesn't hit those who have a lot of money on the book. You might want to talk about taxes on wealth, but it's really a far more skew distribution you're talking about here, if you just let the tightening happen through the interest rate. I believe that perhaps the LO and the Labour Party should debate whether this is a right policy. Finally, the property tax. We have made a proposal that the tax on wealth should generally be reduced evenly in order to be eliminated. I agree with the representative that only to do something about the property tax for those who put money in commercial capital, and to do nothing about the property tax for them such as. Putting money on a book, in the bank, it's not socially fair, that's why it's not the Right View either. The right view is that the property tax should be escalated, regardless of whether the pensioner places his money into AMS funds, into funds of other types, or puts money on books, into banks.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e777	The President does not remember that Per-Kristian Foss has taken up the proposals that he has made, among other things. now referred to. It might have been okay if it was done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e780	Thank you for this timely reminder, President! I am addressing the proposals where the Right is the proposer – alone or as the largest party among others.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e787	Per-Kristian Foss has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e790	It is possible that the representative Foss spent half his time talking about Right Policy. The other half he used to talk about the Progress Party and me. In this respect, I am used to Mr. Foss" is a cynical, demeaning and knowledgeable way of acting, so I'm not going to let it go into my mind a lot. One of the conditions that Mr. Foss was not affected, but which he took up in the context of the exchange of lines with the committee's chairman, Dag Terje Andersen, was Norwegian monetary policy, in which he wanted the Workers' Party to clarify its view of Norwegian monetary policy, because, in Foss' view, there were some confused observers in the market who did not fully understand what Norwegian monetary policy was now going on. I agree. But what I then wonder about is what the Right believes about today's Norwegian monetary policy, because there have been suggestions in Stortinget, among others. by the Progress Party, to clarify the mandate of the Bank of Norway, to change the mandate of the Bank of Norway, and to do something about the independence of the Bank of Norway, and I do not remember that it received the support of the Right. Then there is another issue that is central to the debate, and that is the appointment of the Governing Council, which is now politically appointed by the various political parties, and not necessarily composed of professional actors who may be better suited to assessing the needs of the Norwegian economy. So I would like to hear what the Right now thinks about Norwegian monetary policy, whether the mandate is clear enough or whether there is actually a need for the political authorities to change their mandate, clarify and clarify monetary policy, so that there are no longer any confused observers in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e799	It's not easy with the Progress Party. In the past, we were accused of never taking the Advancement Party seriously. Now we take the Progress Party seriously – we have actually done so for quite a long time – and talk about their policies and perhaps wonder that a party to a strong reduction in taxes and public expenditure has become a party to a strong increase in public expenditure. It's possible that it's cynical, but it's at least taking the party seriously. And the fact that taking the party seriously is perceived as a shikano East, I think I have many ways of thinking and a certain reflection, if not from this pulpit. As far as monetary policy is concerned, our view of it is expressed in several national budgets. We've seen that there's been a change. To use the diplomatic expression of the Statistical Central Bureau: the focus of monetary policy has shifted somewhat. It's a focus shift that we're satisfied with. It's actually a large number that has expressed it, and with changing governments, it's also a broad majority that we're satisfied with that focus change. That LO hasn't got it with us, we're referred to as an internal problem in the work movement. I tried to challenge the party to maybe use this pulpit to explain it a little bit better. So far, this has not led to any great enthusiasm. In fact, the representative, Andersen, was so late that he said that when someone says they don't understand Norwegian monetary policy, it's probably more a statement that they disagree with monetary policy. It is possible that it was aimed at LO – I should not have said that. So I do not see the great need for a new regulation. However, if the Government feels that practice has now changed, and that the regulation should be adjusted to practice, we are open to receiving proposals for it through the national budget for the autumn. I've expressed a number of times to the newspapers, at the latest today, that I'm very open to a change in the way we appoint the board of directors, with a greater emphasis on professional independence and the transparency that will result from it – a somewhat modified British model.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e808	There is broad cross-political concern about the strong increase in the payment of sick pay and disability pension. This was among other things: the background to the Sandman selection, which, in interaction with business partners, will consider possible measures to reverse these developments. The Christian People's Party believes in such a procedure, because we are overestimated that the best solutions are usually found in a constructive interaction between different actors and with different approaches. This is one of the reasons why we consider the Government's proposal to increase the employer's period as a provocation, including against the Sandman Committee's work. Right is concerned about better business conditions, and I'm going to believe that the Right considers it more important to achieve concrete results than flag strong positions that might help to achieve good solutions. I am therefore somewhat surprised at the right's suggestion to introduce the property of sick money online during this period. And without commenting on the realities of the Right's proposal, I have the following questions: doesn't Right see that this proposal can work negatively on the process that is going on between the parties in the business community through the Sandman selection, and in such a way can indirectly contribute to the failure to achieve good solutions? It is well that concrete, good solutions mean more to Right than strong party political markings, for, as the representative Foss said in his post, it may be useful to adjust after looking around. Not everything is possible to adjust, but it is possible to adjust, said Foss. Wouldn't it be useful if one had adjusted a little in this situation, to thus contribute positively to a good result of the Sandman selection's work?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e819	Well, it's important to look around, but at the same time it's important that you don't make it such a strong view of life that you stay there and stare! There will be no political act of sitting and looking at things; someone has to go ahead and do something. The Christian People's Party has stated on several occasions that they will "look at" the wealth tax. In this connection, Jan Petersen has used an expression that I think is very striking, namely that the wealth tax must soon be Norway's most fortunate tax. There will be no political action to sit and look at the wealth tax, someone has to do something about it and go ahead, like the replicator called it, flag – so go ahead and do something about it. Now the Christian People's Party comes after. After they have left the government, they have started trading. The same applies to the county council, which was up in a previous line change. Someone has to do something about it. The right has talked about it for a long time. Now the Christian People's Party says yes, that's interesting -- maybe we should start looking at it. They're out of government position, but they're still out of government position. The sickness pay scheme — well, there are several ways to reduce expenditure. We've pointed out someone, we're open to any other proposal. Yes, when we have actually embraced the Christian People's Party program where there are positive things about the sickness pay scheme, we are told that we are hasty! But is it that political programs are written to do something about it after you had the power to do something about it? I haven't perceived it this way, but it's obviously become a new kind of value, too. I want to send it to the Value Commission for evaluation, without having a very strong hope for quick, unambiguous answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e836	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e839	I have to admit that when I heard the change of lines between Per-Kristian Foss and Ingebrigt Sørfonn, it almost seemed as if the logic of the proposals depended on whether you are in government or not – in this way there is a lot of evidence that it has been a long time since the Right has presented sensible proposals in this Chamber. At the centre, it has been important to make clear priorities in relation to the revised national budget, which we are dealing with today. I am pleased that it has been possible to have a majority for increased health bets, with 520 million. kr. I am pleased that it has been possible to get a majority against turning increased costs into businesses and municipalities through an increase in the employer's period, as proposed by the Government. I am also pleased that there is a majority against the removal of the subsidy scheme for employment of seafarers, with a total of 110 million. kr. We would like to discuss the scheme for the subsidy scheme for employment of seafarers, whether it should be used to a greater extent for recruitment rather than as a purely wage subsidy. But this scheme is important for recruitment. And when we see today's business today that the yard industry is going better than in a long time, this is due, among other things. that we have a strong maritime nourishment with Norwegian seafarers on board who are also an important part of the competence of the rest of the maritime industries, including in the yard industry. Without being able to get a recruit, without being able to take care of the many young people who have now chosen to take up education in this area that we are talking about here, the yard industry will not be able to have the development that you are lucky to see again in the future. I am also pleased that there is a majority against some of the cuts that had been put into the transport sector, with a total of 120 million. kr. Unfortunately, on the other hand, there is no majority in the Committee to increase the appropriations — or rather reverse the cuts — for innovation in economic development. I am thinking first and foremost of the cuts in the appropriations for the SND, which, in my opinion, are disastrously hard on SND, in the middle of a year when there are no appropriations left and more or less can come into a situation without meaningful work in the second half of the year, and therefore are not able to make the offensive investment in innovation that is absolutely necessary. It is also regrettable that there is no majority in favour of increasing the regional effort and that the centre has also not received a majority in favour of the proposal for an increase in free resources for municipalities. Like the representative, Valgerd Replystad Haugland, I have to say that I think it is alarming that it is the poorest of us in the world who have to pay for the budget balance here at home. For us, it has been important to adopt a revised national budget ensuring employment, ensuring a good interest rate development and ensuring competitive conditions for business. But even though these matters are important, we must never forget that we also have a responsibility to ensure a fair distribution and to ensure that everyone has the basics to offer to the public, no matter where one has to live, and what we adopted yesterday in connection with the municipal economics proposition is thus a step in the wrong direction. Several representatives made themselves spokesmen yesterday in order to ensure that it had to redistribute from the districts to the growth municipalities in order to avoid privatisation in the growth municipalities. It is important to avoid privatisation in the growth municipalities, I fully agree, and I am one of the spokespersons of a strong public sector, but it is immoral to have the district councils pay the price as hard as it is now charged by the majority of the municipal committee in the position adopted yesterday. We have now had strong growth in the Norwegian economy for several years. In particular, we have seen strong growth in private consumption and in private investment. In view of the total activity of the Norwegian economy, we have had an ever tighter state money consumption. The result of this is that a 12-year-old who does not have a mobile phone or who does not have the most modern data at home, is not able to afford clothes and pencils at the same time, and is not at all able to think about investing in modern computer equipment. Schools lack even the most basic in maintenance. Too many schools do. The school guards have problems filling their working day with something meaningful, simply because the municipalities lack money to buy paints, planks and nails, so that the working day can be filled with meaningful work tasks and one can take care of the necessary maintenance. We heard the news this morning that Haukeland Hospital will save 35 million. kr and cancel 30 doctors – 30 doctors who are going to be shut down right into the private health system. That means 1,000 fewer treated patients at Haukeland Hospital. Is this a development that we're served with? And how long can we call for a strong public sector if developments continue in that direction too in the future? The Minister of Finance has an article on page 3 of Dagbladet today, where he says that the Government will ‘assess to dampen the growth of private consumption in order to provide room for increased growth in common consumption’. It's not enough to evaluate this. It is necessary to act in the national budget presented in the autumn. If the Workers' Party wants to, it is a majority in the Stortinget to introduce tax on dividends – not a mere double taxation, but a model in which taxation is divided between taxation on companies and taxation on the part of shareholders. I think it's a sensible development. It is appropriate to provide for a slightly higher capital tax in total. But such sharing of taxation will stimulate corporate savings, will stimulate saving in innovation and economic development, and that is what we need to ensure our future well-being. At the same time, you will be taxed when you take dividends from the company and use the return on south-east travel or to build a cottage in the million class, while saving in industry is stimulated. I expect the government to take a boost for such redistribution from those who have the most, to those who have the least, and to choose a profile that stimulates savings where we need to save, and also stimulates less private consumption. I imagine what will be the line of this: the Centre gives millions of tax dollars to those who have the most, through proposals for exemptions from property taxes on working capital. This is a sensible proposal, and it's very little about giving tax relief to the rich on the west side of Oslo, with which I see the SV's representative has argued, but it's giving tax relief to the founders of Sunnmøre, who plough the profits back into their own business, who invest in safe and long-term jobs rather than taking dividends and spending money on other things. In fact, the tax on wealth is an unfair form of taxation in relation to business activities, precisely because one actually has to increase the profits from the enterprise in order to pay taxes on wealth. For the vast majority of those engaged in economic activity, the wealth is not invested in money, but in machinery and buildings – the most tools needed to make the enterprise work and make money. This is necessary both to ensure the safety of workers' jobs and to ensure healthy development in the business world. I should have liked to have seen that there had already been a majority today to combine exemptions from property taxes on working capital with the introduction of taxes on dividends, but I note that the majority does not exist. Only the Central Party and SV want to introduce tax on dividends today. I hope that this autumn we will see more hits follow. So a little bit about the budgetary balance, the discussion about underlying expenditure growth and the debate about pressures in the economy. This is an important part of the debate, but we also need to use common sense here. We've got there today that it's more important if a budget creates pressure in the economy and increased activity than if it meets the basic needs of most people. And we see that there's an increasing creativity in the way you argue. The example of the crown is the Prime Minister's press release on an additional 1 billion kroner for municipalities to cover the provision of holiday money by municipalities this year. The press release says that this is a forced provision, so it does not increase activity in the economy. This is with respect to report pure svada! The municipalities get one billion more to use. Municipalities must make a compulsory provision regardless of whether they receive this billion extra or not. So the municipalities get an extra $1 billion to spend this year. It is better to admit that it is not possible to cut 1 billion kroner on the municipalities. It is better to recognise that it is neither possible nor reasonable to do this than to use the type of fictional arguments, to argue that the rigour is maintained when it really does not. For all we achieve is that we undermine confidence as politicians, and we undermine confidence in the way we use the budget. Finally, the Labour Party also reiterates today the argument about unpaid bills. I wish you could end with the hesitant use of the term. The central party asked the finance minister if we could get an overview of what the unpaid bills meant. We had to remind the answer to get it. And in that answer, it says that there is a particular increase in the cost of sick pay, and it is especially the cost of birth money that increases more than that of the population's calculation group when the budget was presented last autumn. We are among those who have called about the sickness pay scheme. I assume that the Workers' Party appreciates it has been done, and that the increase in expenditure resulting from it could not be foreseen when the budget was presented last autumn. I would have liked to say a little about the expenses to Kosovo, but I get to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e877	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e880	The former municipal minister obviously does much more for the municipalities outside the government offices than within, and there is reason to claim that the members of the centre parties have never been as active as after they left the government offices. They now have the money they didn't have, and it's worth a study in itself, I think. The centre party and its leader probably have fine motives for not wanting to have a budget agreement with the Workers' Party or follow up the agreement they have concluded, but why we might see more clearly for the autumn. The centre party would like to appear to be a trusted partner, but signed budget agreements are no longer valid, when one looks at what the centre party is looking at, among other things. will be removed, e.g. action places and resources in the labour market, which means 340 jobs away, while making it difficult to get more people to work, as is well known by the representative, Enoxsen. And it's not just for the individual we need to get more in work, but because there's simply a shortage of labour in a number of sectors, and many of the unemployed need qualification to move on. Or in another way: the centre party allows the long-term unemployed, social welfare recipients and immigrants to join in and pay for the expenditure side of the budget has grown. In my opinion, this is in sharp contrast to what the Centre Party has entered into, among other things. for the treatment of the equalisation message. Therefore, I would like to hear from the leader of the centre party, Enoksen, why they now seem to have a lot of money to equal and different, while they leave the weakest ones with and pay the bill, and especially when the representative, Enoksen, just finished saying that we are concerned with fair distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e891	In view of the debate that took place here at 04 a.m. this night, where it was said by the Central Party that we would later have to ask for a hearing of the agreements concluded with the Workers' Party, I must say that I find it alarming that the representatives of the Workers' Party are at all taking the opportunity to talk about the breach of the agreement. I am thinking, of course, of the agricultural settlement and what happened on 9 May, where an agreement was reached here in this room between the Centre and the Workers' Party on the development of agricultural policy in the future, an agreement that the Workers' Party skillfully departed from a few weeks later. To answer some of the questions asked by the representative Brørby, it is definitely not that we have more money to spend in the opposition than in the position. The Centre has presented a balanced proposal for the revised national budget. The vast majority of the cut proposals that have been adopted now have a budget of 8 million. kr tighter than that presented by the Government are proposals submitted from the centre. Most of the proposals have been given a majority, and then it's not possible to come and talk about that we have so much more money to spend. I agree with the representative Per-Kristian Foss, who said in a previous post that it's easier to tell what kind of suggestions you'd want to promote than actually to promote them. But I would like to point out that as a municipal minister, I have said repeatedly: the situation for municipalities in 1999 and 2000 is going to be extremely difficult, and there is a need for a significant increase in transfers to municipalities in 2001. I also numerically fixed it while I was sitting as a municipal minister, before it was possible to present the municipal economic proposition because of the government change. I said as a municipal minister that it was necessary to increase the transfers by at least NOK 5 billion. We've stood firm, even in opposition, that it's the necessary amount to increase the transfers by. It's probably also a little bit at least made in relation to the huge deficit that we now see being built up every single year in the municipal sector. But that's what we were able to do while we were in government, and that's what we've also been holding onto in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e907	The representative, Mr Enoxsen, made his statement. the situation of local authorities. The centre party presents itself in different contexts, such as the district party, saying that they want larger transfers to the municipalities, and especially to the district municipalities. Today, it is largely the district municipalities that receive the largest transfers per year. the population. In fact, the difference in income between municipalities varies from one municipality to another. NOK 20 000 per year. population up to approx. 100 000 p.a. The population, and then we talk about the income. Then we have not taken into account the fact that there are different employer charges in the municipalities, and that also means large sums for the municipalities. It is not difficult to see the problems of the relocation municipalities, but the specific problems of the relocation municipalities are significantly less addressed. These are mostly municipalities with low incomes per year. the population and who are not compensated for the relocation until more than one year later, because the number of inhabitants per year. The transfers shall be based on 1 January of the previous year. In addition, these municipalities very often have problems with the County Environmental Protection Department and the Ministry of Environmental Protection in connection with the organisation of new housing. Is the Centre Party at all concerned with the special problems of these municipalities? Does the Central Party believe that these press communities should be able to offer services as well as the rest of the country's municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e920	The answer to the question of whether we are concerned with the municipalities of growth is yes, and I can, to some extent, repeat what I said from this pulpit just one year ago, when I was the municipal minister and talked about the arrangement on the municipal economic proposition for 2001, as several of the representatives in the Chamber asked questions at the time. I'm still stuck with it. In our opinion and in my opinion, it is not possible to liquidate the loss compensation received by the relocation municipalities and small municipalities as a result of the Rattsø investigation, without having dramatic consequences for these types of municipalities. The majority have now decided to do so. At the same time, I also said that it is necessary to do something about the income system in order to be more able to meet the specific challenges facing the growth municipalities. What the government and the majority of the population have done now is that within scarce limits, priority has been given to small municipalities to the municipalities of growth. So the small municipalities have paid the price because they are not willing to spend enough money on the municipal sector, so that they can give growth municipalities a boost, without having to pay the expense of the very smallest municipalities. It's stuck on our side. It is necessary to provide for both types of municipalities. And when we talk about large income differences between different types of municipalities, we should not forget that it has its background, of course, that the operation of different types of municipalities also has very different costs, and it does not have as much connection with the size of the municipality as it has to geography. We have municipalities that consist of ten-twelve islands where people live, and where for the sake of the children who are going to school, it is necessary to have schools in all of these islands where there are people. This requires a balancing system with regard to income that allows the same offer to be made independently of geography, regardless of residence patterns and irrespective of where in the country of residence. It would probably be enough to remember the situation in Finnmark in winter, where you had huge costs of snow clearing, and the situation in South Africa where you have barely seen snow in several years, to realize that here there is a certain difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e929	The contributions of the representative, Odd Roger Enoksen, were in many ways quite illustrative, because he chooses to use half of his speaking time to prepare the basis for a reply he assumed. I can calm down, sir. The Enoch with the following: Yes, it comes. The reason for this is simply the following: the central government has been in charge of budgets for a year and a half and has submitted proposals to the Stortinget, but has not made proposals for changes in the wealth tax. And the reason for that, of course, is obvious: Gudmund Restad so that spending 2.5 billion kroner mainly on those who have the most, cannot necessarily be defended by the center government. In today's edition of Today's Business, the two well-known SVs Ole Gäms-Onstad and Terje Hansen warn against debt to the rich, saying that removing the tax on business assets is completely meaningless and helps largely only those who already have the most. Some tractor, some massey Ferguson, comes into this, of course. I suppose that's why the Central Party so wholeheartedly now supports the proposal. But my question doesn't matter. Even though the Center Party now has a rhetoric about wanting to eliminate differences and cancel out differences, now leave it alone. My point is, how in the world are you going to cover $2.5 billion? That's my question to Odd Roger Enoksen. Yesterday we discussed municipal economics. What we are discussing today, the revised national budget, is also municipal economy. It's the economy of the community, or the Society Norway, that the Center Party at some point liked to call the welfare state we have. Here you have to give NOK 2.5 billion to Norway's richest people. And it has to be covered in. Odd Roger Enoksen must also be there and cover up. And does he really think that if you had $2.5 billion in your hand, it's in the municipalities that it has to be cut so that we can give more tax relief to those like the two famous SVs Gems-Onstad and Hansen, called Norway's richest. This is not a matter of concern. And my challenge is: if you're going to take the difference message and the Central Party's attitude there seriously, if you're going to take seriously what's in the municipal economy proposition, the Central Party really has only one thing to do today, and that's to say, "Sorry, we failed, we shouldn't have been on that proposal, we shouldn't oblige the Government to give the richest in Norway a tax relief of $2.50 billion."
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e938	The estimate of DKK 2.5 billion is based on completely erroneous assumptions. The likely amount is between 1 and 1.5 billion kroner if you apply the tax exemption on working capital according to the model that I want, which is the model that you have chosen in Sweden. For example, it excludes: listed shares and excludes some other assets in the enterprises which it is simply not possible to exempt from taxes on wealth if one is to be able to obtain a delimitation between what can be calculated as private assets of a company and what is real working capital or economic wealth. So the amount is much lower. The Ministry of Finance's response to the Finance Committee is based on completely different assumptions from those underlying a model of exemption for working capital. But this will give us plenty of opportunity to come back to. As I said in my main post, I should have liked to have seen that we could already have combined the grip of exempting working capital from property taxes by introducing taxes on dividends. In fact, it would have contributed to increased value creation, it would have helped to build up more capital in business, and it would have actually also helped to increase the income of the country by introducing tax on dividends on shares. It would have been a fair distribution. At the same time, it would have stimulated innovation and economic development. So it's also that it's not just about covering expenses. Exemption from taxes on wealth is also expenditure on the acquisition of income. I am absolutely convinced that it is these types of businesses that we will need more in the future. It's innovation companies, it's the founders of the West, that have built up large parts of the well-being we have today, and we want to stimulate us to save on food rather than build a cottage in a municipality – building a cabin to 25 million. kr, you buy boats to tens of millions, not to say hundreds of millions, it's a meaningless use of money. That's not where we're going to spend the money – they're going to be used to save food.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e947	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e951	The treatment of the revised national budget — the first national budget in the new century — can best be summed up with abuse of opportunities. The government's promise to the Norwegian people at the time of accession was to use the possibilities. Norway is the society of opportunity, said the Prime Minister. But unfortunately there is no trace of this in the budget, or to say as the representative Rune Kristiansen in the VG the last day: ‘It is difficult to find an Ap profile on the revised national budget and the proposal for a local economy.’ And he went on to say that the main profile of the Workers' Party is 'budget balance' and 'coverage', and continued: ‘These two words go like a red thread through all the government makes it visible to people. It's impossible to explain to people that we live in a country with so much money, and then we act as if we're managing a bankruptcy dwelling." And in that way it was quite precise and well said. The most important abuse of the possibility, from the point of view of the SV, is this: Norway has never been richer than this year, we are going to spend a minimum of SEK 150 billion on the oil fund, and no generation before us has had the same opportunity, the economic freedom, as our generation. And no country around us has the same opportunity to tackle important welfare tasks that our nation has. The state floats over milk and honey, while we let the municipalities go on water and bread. And there are neither economic nor political reasons why it should be so. I assume that most of my co-representatives are constantly asking why we cannot spend more money in hospitals, schools and other important welfare tasks. And I also assume that most people have been guilty of an answer, as the committee's chairman explained earlier in an article. Now there is no goal for SV to spend as much money as possible, and neither do we. We have a very sober budget. But it's a goal to spend the money properly, and it's a goal that we're going to redistribute. The SV's alternative state budget has shown that it is possible to redeploy, and has shown that it is possible to extend the welfare state further — not to downgrade it, which unfortunately will be the result of this budget. We have shown that it is possible to bet on kindergartens, we have shown that it is possible to bet on culture, we have shown that it is possible to bet on further building hospitals and health, we have shown that it is possible to bet on environmental measures, and in particular we have shown that it is possible to bet on children and young people, bet in schools, rather than bet on building frigates, taking money from u-help or, for that matter, cash support. The SV budget is primarily a budget for children and young people, a budget to prove that there is room for action, even within a tight financial framework. What is sad is that today a budget will be adopted which is almost entirely unpolitical and without political priority – without wishing and wanting anything at all. In short, the revised national budget is largely administrative, and this should not be important budgetary negotiations. What the country needs is political will, and what the country needs is political direction. And what has perhaps become the most parochial with the budget is that it has been overwhelmingly budgetary indicators and balance sheet. The result is that you push the bill in front of you and call it the budget balance. Let me just take a couple of funny examples of how the finance committee can act in this regard: the government loan fund has lost 176 million. kr on loans that cannot be redeemed. This money was actually supposed to be written off this year. The money is lost, but we choose to write it off for next year. They are thus included as a plus in the budget balance sheet. No other person may budget in such a way. This is just kind of money and customs, but it's supposed to be responsible. We're going to spend 431 million dollars. extra on refugees in Norway, instead of spending money on u-help. We shall do so, as it is said, for ‘to dampen the pressure’ in the Norwegian economy. So we're going to dampen the pressure and temperature of the Norwegian economy by taking money from the developing world and using it in Norway, instead of using them where they obviously didn't lead to pressure tendencies. And the most serious example is, of course, that we're depreciating NOK 6.7 billion to Gardermobanen with a pen stroke, because they don't have an impact in this year's budget. None other than the Storting can act in this way, and the result is therefore also relatively comical. So that means that the budgetary balance in this sense, as an economic expression, has no meaning. But one of the most tragic things about the budget is the fact that a majority proposal was made to reduce the wealth tax, which I have had in several previous articles. It shows that the Stortinget has not taken seriously the strike we had in the private sector against greed culture, or, for that matter, what was debated in the Stortinget two days ago, the anti-dithering message. That means it's just the oral cavity. When you come to the actual decisions, the Storting does not have the courage to go in the right direction, but gives the opposite tax relief to those who have ample history. I would like to bring up the SV's proposal, which has been referred to in the vote, and also mention the proposal by Karin Andersen, on behalf of SV, which was not taken up during the debate last night.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e987	The President would point out that the word 'customs' is not a parliamentary term. The representative of Øystein Djupedal has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e994	It is true, as the representative, Mr Djupedal, says, that they have managed to show a redistribution within a relatively responsible framework. I'll take credit for that. But at the same time, the representative talks about our country moving across with milk and honey, and a writing also in the setting that actually there is room for a much bigger bet if a channelling bet against the areas that don't lead to pressure in the Norwegian economy. I then understand that SV is in many ways in line with the Progress Party, that we should operate with a two-part budgeting. My question will then be: what will be the framework within which we operate in the budget? Of course, it would be possible to point to individual items that have a limited impact on the pressure in the Norwegian economy. But it is too easy to use this as an argument for a general increase in the vows, either of the municipalities, on which the representative was in, or for assistance, because it is such that the state does not control the purchase, cork in the municipalities or in other enterprises. Does it not see that, in that case, such a budgetary system would be quite meaningless and, at the same time, would largely lead to bureaucracy and increase administrative costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1003	Yes, I agree with the representative Rudihagen, and therefore SV has not supported a foreign budget. At the same time, however, money spent abroad has a different effect from money used in Norway. Let me just take one example to show that there is room in the Norwegian economy, which nobody really takes into account: in just one year, investment in the oil sector has fallen by nearly NOK 30 billion. From being at a level of over 70 billion dollars, the forecast is now that we're going to be 40 billion dollars. These are investments included in the State budget, partly because the State has a significant share of these investments through both SøE and Statoil. We have noticed that fall of NOK 30 billion because there has been a lower activity in the workshop industry. But it is therefore possible for an economy like the Norwegian one to suddenly lose an investment volume of SEK 30 billion in one year, although of course it is disturbing the yard. In such a situation, it is clear that it is fully possible for Norwegian society to say that we want to bet on children and young people, that we want to expand our education system, that we want to have secondary schools that shine, instead of those we unfortunately have today. And that's this room of action SV wants and wants, because it can't be that it's «economics» in all contexts that will control social development. If we want to prioritize high school, it's fully possible. Only this fall in oil investment shows with all possible clarity that there is a much greater degree of flexibility in the economy than some later to believe. The SV's main score is as follows: we do not ridicule the budget balance, but very much of what is now included as important components of the budgetary balance sheet is with respect not to report correctly. The need to write off a loan this year or next year has nothing to do with budgetary balance. The money is lost for the Norwegian state – some student has been drinking beer for that money many years ago. We don't get that money in. Thus, the budgetary balance sheet – that it should be drawn in this way – has no meaning. That's why SV says there's a significant space to bet on the most important thing. We have requested that in this room, and I would like to invite the representative Rudihagen to participate in the promise of the secondary school that is in the SV's alternative state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1014	On several occasions SV has tried to present itself as a party that wants to facilitate people to live throughout the country, but it is more beautiful words than action. Gas and diesel prices are costs that affect the part of the population living in the districts, especially hard. Over a relatively short period of time, the prices of diesel and petrol have risen dramatically. The background for that is the sky-high market prices of crude oil and high dollar prices, which means that the treasury is filled with money. Therefore, on several occasions the Progress Party has proposed to lower these charges, but is of little use. SV is one of the batches that consistently match lower taxes on petrol and diesel. I find this strange, when I know that these charges are costs that affect that part of the population and business the hardest. Even small production companies established in the Nordic countries, for example, have hundreds of thousands of dollars higher transport costs than similar companies established in the north of Sweden because of the high diesel taxes. SV also gives the impression of being concerned that citizens will get a good cultural offer and allocate millions to facilitate it. The problem is that even if a cultural offer is built up, people who depend on a car can't afford to send children on stage, football training or even driving four or five miles to go to the movies. SV's policy is simply not right. With one hand, they use millions to build up an offer, while with the other they charge so much to the population and business that they can't afford to avail themselves of the offers SV has built up. Or is it that SV is now going to submit to the board of directors' proposal to lower the petrol tax by NOK 1.50 and the diesel tax by NOK 1 per person. liters, so that business and people can establish themselves where they want?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1025	When the Progress Party accuses SV's policy of not hanging in touch, I feel relatively comfortable. Then I know I'm about where I should be. I must also say that if it had been the Progress Party that was to run the country, you would not have needed a car. Then they had no place to drive to, neither cultural offers nor other offers – so in that way I feel quite comfortable. But let me still take the line seriously, because there are two things the representative completely ignores. The first moment is what's called green taxes, and that's SV busy. That means that the polluter has to pay, and that means it's right that petrol should be paid as a source of pollution. Now it is mainly due to the last NOK 3 in the mark-up on the petrol price market and not Stortinget, and the representative Svendsen knows that well. Over the past few years, there is no more than 23 dollars of this price increase due to the Storting. But leave it. SV simply defends high fuel charges because it is correct for the polluter to pay. The concept of green taxes is not something of which the Progress Party is concerned. They basically believe that it is only to release the pollution that is, and let society pay the costs, not the individual that actually pollutes. The second point that is completely ignored is that in Norway we have the lowest state funding for public transport in Europe. It is clear that very many places in Norway are not possible to operate public transport, it is fully understood. That is why we have also chosen to apply for a lower annual fee to own a car in those districts of Norway where there is no public transport. However, if you are concerned that people are going to be effective and smart, where there is a basis for public transport, it is really a paradox that Norway uses at least in Europe — lower than Poland, lower than Spain and Italy. For example, in the city we're in, there should be a much larger state contribution to public transport. It would also have helped, sir. Swandsen's voters. Then they could drive faster, because then more people would have used public transport. And Svendsen might try to think through these reasonings, because these reasonings keep water also to business and private people. It is socially and operationally wise to drive collectively, not in a private car, not least pollute it less, but I know that, Mr. Svendsen is less concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1036	When I listened to the representative Øystein Djupedal, it occurred to me that SV is a party of, as we use to say in the prayer house, ‘the good will’ in a country that flows over with milk and honey, as it was said here. SV has great wording in its alternative budget – which could well have been in the Christian People's Party – it is children and young people first, municipal and district bets and a strengthened environmental profile. But sometimes it's so that the good can be the enemy of the good. It's expensive to be kind, and here it's an important balance. From the SV's specific comments it is clear that even if a tightness has been chosen at approximately the same level as the centre, they point out that there is room for reducing transfers to the petroleum fund. And then this balance sheet doesn't necessarily represent the limit of how much money can be spent. Then it could have been good to ask the question about where the balance point goes for SV. But since that question has already been asked, I would rather ask a question that goes on SV's strong environmental profile, which is good, and which the Christian People's Party will also be asking behind. Achieving a good environmental profile may include: do so by charging, but when SV will increase the CO2 tax on domestic goods by sea, while at the same time wanting to transfer more of the freight from road to boat and track, it is a typical example that the good can be the enemy of good. And my question to the representative Øystein Djupedal will then be if he can give an explanation as to why SV will increase the tax burden on environmentally friendly maritime transport. Isn't it just to bring more of the transport back on the road?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1047	I thank you for a good line. Of course, good environmental policies consist of many components. Fees are one important component, because taxes can change people's behaviour. What is behind SV's thinking on green taxation is a desire for a change in the behaviour of individuals, but also, of course, in the structure of society, for example. can change the way goods move through our country. When we are in favour of green taxes, which the Christian People's Party agrees in principle, it is precisely for this reason, as well as the following: we do not think it is an objective to do everything possible to erode the obligations arising from the Kyoto Protocol. If you're still away from the Storting saying that this is such an important area of society that we're going to avoid green taxation, we're going to take the whole principle to heart, and that's SV's one point. The second is that the type of taxation on ferry and boat services that is otherwise required here along the coast, of course in turn, will also lead to technology advances that make engines less polluting. It's in this interaction, dialectics, or what we want to call it, that the authorities go ahead with fees to stimulate behavior, and that the market is reacting out there to avoid the burden of charges that we are able to get a better and more environmentally sound society. America is the society that has thus gone the farthest. Things have been adopted against which industry has protested. Take something as simple as flying noise, which is a huge problem for a lot of people. There they demanded the airlines that were so strict that the airlines were not able to comply with them. But then it only goes one year, and then you're actually able to make aircraft engines that are much smaller, even though the industry said it was totally hopeless. It's exactly this interaction that makes SV consistent on this. And for those industries and others that are particularly hard hit, SV, like what is called the Green Tax Commission, goes into compensatory measures. That's how we manage to get a more environmentally friendly society, and that's how we manage to meet the commitments resulting from the Kyoto agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1056	The cord change is therefore changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1059	The revised national budget for 2000 has found a sensible solution. It is essentially a follow-up to the budgetary agreement between the central parties and the Labour Party. The central government's main priorities are continued in the budget, while most of the Workers' Party's unfortunate cuts are rejected. We in the Left are pleased that the budgetary balance has been maintained at the same level as in the central government's draft budget for 2000. This has been an active contribution to the center parties. Of the containment, most proposals are made by the centre, which saw the other parties including the Workers' Party join. In the course of the year's negotiations on the revised budget, the Labour Party met an opposition who has prepared and contributed to a balanced budget. This is a completely different willingness to find solutions than the central government was met with from the then opposition. We have heard allegations from Labour Party councils that there were left so-called unpaid bills from the central government. But on direct questions, the Ministry of Finance has not provided a clear answer to what these bills are. The only thing they're pointing at is a change in the estimates for regulated schemes, which would be unsafe for any government. It's in the year's treatment of revised shifts in excess of 1,500 million. kr on the revenue and expenditure side, respectively. Of these, there's only two small millions who don't have the center. This testifies to the fact that the central parties have once again put a clear stamp on this budget as well. The left can point out that, within a tight fiscal framework, we have found room for a number of improvements in relation to the Government's proposals. The Centre's alternative draft budget in revision is a continuation of the central government's political profile. It's secured to a majority of 520 million. more for the operation of hospitals, both through input-driven financing and through county municipalities. The left and the centre will give the municipalities approx. 120 million. This will help to maintain a good welfare offer. In addition, the focus is on the proposal for an extension of the employer’s period in the sick pay scheme, which saves municipalities a hundred million. kr in increased expenditure. Center gets an average of 120 million. kr more to traffic than the government proposes. This will contribute to a better commitment to road safety, maintenance, fixed coverage and the maintenance of ferry services. The center is also going to go in for $30 million. kr more to the railway, so that we do not reduce the level of investment. The left is pleased that the Committee is united on the proposal to support foreign students, who have lost due to major changes in exchange rates. Additional funds have also been allocated to ensure that students from Northern Norway do not get out worse than other foreign students because of expensive domestic travel. It is also the majority of the Left and Centre's proposals for a total of 6.5 million. kr to the Academy of Art in Oslo and Bergen. We wish it had been possible to correct the large cuts the Workers' Party proposed on the aid budget. Cut at 431 million. kr goes out on the world's poorest. It is sad that we, one of the richest countries in the world, can not contribute more to the poor part of the world and the enormous unsolved tasks that await there. In addition, it should be noted that cutting aid has a minimal impact on the Norwegian economy. This is why the Centre is increasing aid appropriations by 212 million. kr in relation to the Government proposal. This will enable Norway to maintain the level of activity of the assistance. The left is opposed to the proposal to extend the employer’s period in the sick pay scheme to three weeks. The proposal would impose an additional cost of 310 million on business. NOK 100 million and the municipalities. kr. This is a joint committee, except for the Workers' Party, about. The Centre further increases the allocations to industry and district development by nearly 190 million. kr. This includes, inter alia: That we're going against most of the SND cuts proposals. And it is gratifying that the Centre has been given a majority to maintain the appropriations for the Export Council, the Norwegian Tourist Council, the Technical Institute and the Guidance Institute in North Norway. The left-hand side also goes in for $85 million. kr more to the families with children, as we reject the proposal to shorten the period of cash support, child benefit and child benefit. There will also be improvements in the environment. We get a majority against the cuts in liming, Local Agenda 21, Action Järvastret and international environmental action. There is also a majority to ask the Government to submit proposals to exempt producers of district heating from electricity charges. Center goes on towards the big cut of 57 million. kr for energy savings. It is gratifying that a joint committee is following up the promise to secure the police college students working in the police. Furthermore, it's a pleasure that the Left and Center have a majority of five million. to launch the Council against organised crime as early as this year. It's also positive that today there'll be a majority of 2.5 million. to the Data Protection Authority for the follow-up to the Data Protection Act, supported by the Centre, the Right and the Advance Party. A force for business will be that the centre, together with the Right Party and the Advance Party, ensures a majority in order to eliminate the taxes on wealth on working capital. The tax on wealth is an unfortunate form of taxation which depends on whether or not there is a profit on the holding. The elimination of the taxes on wealth on working capital is therefore a hand bill to the Norwegian industry. For the Left, this is a first step on the road to completely abolishing the wealth tax, but this must be part of a larger tax conversion. Norway is a welfare society. The welfare state ensures most, but that is not good enough for everyone. There are people who fall outside, and in the opinion of the Left, a society is no better than what the weakest experience. The left will help the weakest, and it requires redistribution. I am asking questions about whether today's welfare state and our arrangements are targeted enough to raise the standard of living for those who need it the most. Today, too much money is spent on those of us who basically have good resources that could be targeted at those who need it more than us. We need to transfer more resources to school, health, care, research, innovation and transport. Even though the resources that we already allocate to these areas, which are intended to make society warmer, safer and more forward-looking, have never been bigger, they still complain from almost all sides. That is why we in the Left believe that the most important reform of this process must be agreed upon is a radical transformation of public services. I see small opportunities to give the public sector a greater share of the value creation in Norway than we already do. We need to redeploy within the framework we have, without using more of the oil fund, both for future generations and not to create expensive time in an economy that works along its capacity limits. It is my belief that Norway is administered and that future and necessary transfers to care, to school and to health are achieved only by moving people and resources from the internal offices of the bureaucracy and out where citizens need them. The task-sharing committee will hopefully provide the basis for a wide-ranging debate on these issues. The large expenditure growth per year lies in statutory schemes, especially in the social security system. These automatic spending increases bind most of the freedom of action for us politicians and prevent us from getting enough resources for action for those who need more. Therefore, we need to carry out a thorough review of these arrangements. We cannot continue to lubricate well-being thinly beyond those of us who have it well enough, when someone suffers from distress. Due to oil revenues, Norway has not implemented the necessary reforms by the welfare country, as has been the case in most other countries. This should not continue. It speaks in favour of the majority of the Storting that we have shown control and set aside parts of our oil wealth to have supplies in times of need. Instead, we have to try to get more well-being out of the dollars we use today. It is necessary to reform our transfer mechanisms in order to develop and maintain the welfare society. Against this background, the Sandman Committee set up the central government to seek to ensure that the social partners, together with the participants from the state and from the research communities, could jointly propose solutions that are more solidarity than today’s schemes. It is therefore strange that the Labour Party Government proposed to shift the bill for the growth of the sick pay scheme, a so-called unpaid bill, from its own table to the local authorities and businesses, without waiting for the Sandman Committee's position, which will be completed on 15 August, while at the same time using the Sandman Committee as a pretext to wait for proposals for changes in disability benefit. The left agrees that reforming these arrangements is necessary, but we want the parties to participate and to make the preparations for the new solutions. We look forward to the proposals of the two mentioned selections, and we look forward to debates that can provide good solutions for further development of the welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1116	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1120	The representative of Mr. Terje Johansen, as fiscal spokesman for the Left, has gone in to remove the wealth tax on working capital, as he also said in his contribution. Terje Johansen is himself a highly qualified economist, who therefore understands the wonderful world of the economy and finance. Now it is probably the case that the capital of traders is already valued at a low level. The distance between the tax burden on working capital and capital such as bank deposits and quoted shares will, on the Left's proposal, be even greater. Now, probably the representative Johansen can claim that working capital is directly involved in production and should therefore be treated in such a special way, but we have to assume that also bank deposits and capital in shares are in production. My question is then: why does the Left want to reinforce this difference further?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1129	As an economist, I can at least say that the disadvantage of the property tax is that it must be paid regardless of whether you have a profit or not. And since we in the Left have been concerned with the innovation in business and know what capital needs exist there, and how important it is that the small amount of capital you may have does not disappear from the business, we think that removing the wealth tax on working capital is a step in the right direction. So the representative Fossil has objections to our definition of this, and in those objections I think she actually has a lot of good points. Now it's not that the Centre, the Right and the Advance Party agree on all the details of this. That is why we have asked the Government to come back with a proposal, and, as I said in my post, this proposal must also contain definitions of working capital, so that we can get a proper discussion of it. In addition, on behalf of the Left, I have said that we see this as a step towards completely removing the property tax. But we also view this as part of the transformation of our entire tax system. What has been at the heart of the Left for 20 years is a tax reversal that affects people's behavior and that steers social development in the right direction. We've called it green taxes, and we're going to see green taxes and wealth taxes together with the other parts of the tax system in a whole. We want to get back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1138	For several years, the left has been trying to make itself a batch of small businesses. Of course, that's not right. It has been confirmed by the small enterprises throughout the period in which they were in government, when they made several proposals to exacerbate the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is only possible to look at proposals from the former government – in which the Left was involved – to impose on employers in small and medium-sized enterprises the responsibility for a longer sick pay period, the tightening of the sharing model, etc., which fortunately enabled the Progress Party and the Right to stop in budgetary negotiations. Most of the protests against these proposals that were promoted came from those that the Left claimed to represent, the small and medium-sized enterprises. It proves that the Left is not a party for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is interesting to note that when the Left is out of government, they are moving towards increasing the employer's period of sick pay and making sense. It might suggest that the Left should stay out of government. In the proposal for a revised budget, the Progress Party has proposed to reduce the cost of trucks and businesses across the whole country by 1 kr per year. litre for diesel. This is something that will be pleasant, and that will make the price level begin to approach Swedish and Danish levels. Truck owners are really small enterprises with poor working conditions. Where is Left's help to them? Is it increasing the diesel tax by 25 cents in December and then reducing it by 20 cents? If the representative Johansen is aware that if two production companies establish themselves in Bodø and directly across the border with Sweden respectively, the company in Bodø will have to pay several hundred thousand more kroner than the one in Sweden only in diesel to get the products to the market in Oslo. It is clearly not a matter of concern to the small party of the Left; it is a matter of concern to the party of progress. My question to the representative Johansen is: When will the Left begin to propose relief to small and medium-sized enterprises, instead of constantly making proposals that exacerbate the situation of these enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1149	Yes, it is right that the representative claims that the Left has been a champion of the small businesses in Norway. That is why, in this revised budget, we have also been very concerned about the estimations made by the Workers' Party against the very innovations. But we have actually managed to get back, as I mentioned in my post, approx. 190 million. kr of the cuts that the Workers' Party would place on particularly small enterprises. With regard to the central government's proposal to extend the sick pay period at the previous crossroads, I dare remind you that it was accompanied by a balance sheet. We also suggested removing an extra day off, so that the companies would actually get out as well. This was an attempt to tighten up an overheated economy, which we had in 1998. Then the representative advises the Left that we should stay out of government. To that I can just say that the Progress Party knows very little about what it is like to be in government. We think it has been good for Norway that the Left has been in government, because we have managed to bring together a majority of many small steps in the right direction, while the Progress Party with its large group actually does not achieve anything with its demonstration proposals. As for the representative Svendsen's harping on diesel and petrol taxes, I have to say that if he comes with as much as he seems to like to express himself, he will know that in the rest of the world and especially in Sweden, they are now coming after prices. In other words, the need to reduce what Svendsen wants is not present to the same extent. Otherwise, I would like to draw attention to the fact that our ban on sulphur content above 50 p.p.m. allows us to remove the sulphur charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1162	In a row earlier, the Odd Roger Enoxen of the Centre Party came with an eye-catching delineation of the proposal for the abolition of property taxes on working capital; only unlisted companies are to be exempted from this extraordinary tax. It was new to me, and it is new in relation to the letter of reply we received from the Minister of Finance, who had actually calculated it so that the property tax on working capital should also be abolished for listed companies. It is quite difficult to make a good delimitation there, because you own a lot of listed shares, you can, of course, deposit them into an unlisted company afterwards. But the reason why I want to deal with this with Mr. Terje Johansen is that this is going to be a very important debate in the future, because the Minister of Finance will probably get a constitutionally binding order in the evening that he should propose in the State budget a abolition of the wealth tax on working capital. During the day, however, there is a ambiguity created by the centre as to what is contained in the concept of working capital. Should the Minister of Finance just go in for the unlisted companies, or should he also include the listed companies? It must clarify during the day that the Minister of Finance will have a good starting point for his work. In my view, capital also works whether it is in listed companies. Is it true that if a company goes very well, needs more capital and is to be quoted, owners will be exempt from property taxes when the company is not listed on the stock exchange but will have to pay property taxes when it is listed on the stock exchange, such as: The Rieber concert in its time? That doesn't make any sense. But if I know Terje Johansen right, he does well to clarify this, so that we get a clear signal of what the Minister of Finance is going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1171	I thank you for your trust. I can at least say so much as that there's actually no wealth tax on ASs. There are no limited liability companies, listed on the stock market, which pay taxes on wealth. And we haven't talked about it being those who own the shares, who are to be exempted from property taxes, we've been talking about working capital in companies. But I understand from the representative Burnde's question that this is even more difficult for someone than I had thought, and that means that I look forward to the settlement that I believe must accompany the implementation of the proposal in the next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1178	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1181	Revised is soon in port without any kind of drama, and quite soon Stortinget can take a vacation. However, there is reason to ask what reasons the central parties had for not entering into real negotiations with the Labour Party on the revised budget. We look at the setting that the distance between the central parts and the Workers' Party's arrangements is just above NOK 1 billion on the cost side. If we keep out of the employer's period, the cash support and the child's pension, where everyone knew that there was a civil majority, the distance is minimal. Therefore, the desire not to cooperate with the Workers' Party must have been stronger than the desire to get through its own policies. I mention e.g. increased appropriations for assistance. It's just to note that the will of the center parties was not present. Everyone agrees that the revised budget should not be a completely new budget and involve a completely new policy. Therefore, it is completely incomprehensible for the Workers' Party that the Centre Parties cut down 3 000 action posts and 340 posts in the A budget, and that half a year after they entered into a budgetary agreement with the Workers' Party on the 2000 budget, they run from their commitments to the unemployed. The long-term unemployed, disabled persons, beneficiaries of social assistance and immigrants must now be able to pay the bill for the expenditure that the Stoltenberg government has had to cover in the revised budget. This week, Stortinget has also dealt with the Equalisation message. The Communication makes it quite clear that the main distinctions in today’s Norway are between those in employment and those who fall out of the labour market, because one falls outside the labour market, one falls outside the majority. Then it becomes quite striking that the centre parties one day are in favour of a series of measures to get more people to work, while they are in the middle of the labour market measures and in the staffing of the A-etatate a few days later, in the means that we can really get more people to work. A cut of 340 jobs this year will also mean the closure of many employment offices, especially in the districts. Is this good district policy? The working party believes it was right to strengthen the patient treatment at the county hospitals by 520 million. instead of leaving funds for hospital equipment unused for the current year. This does not mean that the hospital equipment plan is being extended or extended. The equipment plan will be followed as planned and concluded in 2003, as foreseen. It's also important that 220 million. kr of this money goes to the county councils' framework grant, so that county councils are given the means to cover their own interests. Yesterday, we had a debate on the municipal economy for 2001, and a great deal of the debate went on the adopted ageing plan. In the setting of the municipal economic proposition, a majority, including the centre parties, is asking for the reform to continue without restrictions. The working party agrees that the elderly bet should be made as planned and that 5 800 new nursing homes and nursing homes should be built this year. Then it becomes a paradox that the center parties according to NTB on June 3rd this year would cut the seniority plan in the current year by 200 million. kr, which would mean a drastic cut in the number of nursing homes or nursing homes in the current year. There is therefore reason to ask the centre parties, who just a few weeks ago came out of government offices, whether the older reform has been completely out of control and management. The working party thinks it is good that SND's loss fund and project development fund will add up to 20 million. kr more after the treatment in Stortinget, so that the counties with little access to regional instruments are also provided with the means to carry out the tasks assigned to them for the rest of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1198	I would like to state here that Norway is a coastal nation, although the revised budget does not bear the mark of it. There are a few honourable exceptions in the budget. For example, we succeeded. maintaining the reimbursement system for seafarers, but unfortunately it is consumed by the CO2 tax. The CO2 tax is a tax, and tax is tax whether it is red, blue or green. Personally, I think the green treasures are the worst, because they trick people. The NOR fleet, i.e. the Norwegian registered coastal cargo fleet, is completed by decisions taken today in Stortinget. It's bankrupt or flagged out, so it's over. It's only a very short-term postponement with the reimbursement scheme. There's another remarkableness I'd like to point out just in that connection. The coastal cargo fleet must pay the unloading fee, while the coastal passenger vessel does not pay the unloading fee. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get There are several hundred thousand dollars in extra costs for a fleet that is pint down by green taxes and high wages, in competition with foreign vessels sailing on the coast with foreigners as crews and perhaps a Norwegian skipper, but not necessarily, for they get a fairway certificate and can sail on the coast. The NIS fleet may not operate on the coast in the same way. It's remarkable – it's strange that this is happening! We put down Norwegian shipping and leave it to non-residents. The removal of the seafarer deduction for pilots has led to chaos for the cruise fleet coming to Norway. It's chaos! They refuse to work overtime, and I understand them well. Losing NOK 30 000 to NOK 40000 in income is significant. Who would have accepted that? I don't think anyone in this room would accept a substantial reduction in their wages, as the losers have. But it's being solved gallantly with the dispensation from the pilot regulations, so here it's just to sail freely into and out of Norwegian fjords for foreign cruise ships. What kind of security is this? – This is also part of this budget. The budget does not bear the mark that we have a maritime nourishment and are a coastal nation. Port investment lacks that money. We have received a small remark in the budget where a unanimous committee asks that the fairways now have to be given priority and better attention, including the cross-link between the external and internal leaders. It is positive, and I assume that the Government takes it a note and sets out a plan for the ordinary budget, which we have asked for. Besides, there's not much to bet on on maritime industries. We do not use our financial freedom to build society and invest in the future to better ensure long-term planning and better use of our natural resources. In my opinion, it is wrong to place Norway's profits abroad in unsafe papers that depend entirely on the stock market. I've written a note about the City Tunnel to ensure safer travel on the coast past the City. That's just one example. There are many such projects, both roads and port development, that could have been used to build up for the future, to invest in our natural resources. But we're more concerned with selling natural resources -- bit by bit. Everything has to be converted into money – just like we don't have enough money. We can't spend that money here in Norway! What are we going to invest all of that money in? Well, we're sending them abroad, we can't have them here! We sell banks, we sell breeding companies, we sell fishing companies with quotas, power companies, hydropower, mineral resources, shipbuilding and industrial enterprises in general – and jobs. Sell it! Get it turned into money! What are we going to spend the money for? We're also sending them to the rest of the world. Government and public ownership need not imply poor ownership. It's a matter of acting as professional owners. It's a question of having professional boards. Stop choosing politicians into state and public ownership companies! Get in professional people who know what it's about, business people instead of choosing politicians, who have largely gone to college. It is largely where most have gone, and then they come into the boards and are to exercise professional ownership in industrial enterprises. This is not possible – we see it again and again! I talked a little about the Patent Directive yesterday. It's an extremely frank attempt to get control of our food! I talked a little bit about it yesterday. It's amazing that people are doing so incredibly bad. And the worst thing is that it's happening without political debate. The Prime Minister and the former Prime Minister, who is now Minister for Foreign Affairs, are in favour of this. The only country in Europe that protests is the Netherlands. There will be a cross of thoughts for me when the same organizations that fight against - not all of them, but the 'protest industry' in general - are fighting simultaneously to get around and save most of the marine resources, which are pure food. It's a cross of thought. Could there be a link between them and those behind them who get control of the food produced ashore? I'm just throwing the thought out. I have made a proposal to cut 29.5 million. kr used to send money to IUCN and WWF, which consistently counter Norwegian resource management. It's okay that it's about whales when we're abroad, and that's what it's referring to, but it's not just about that. They have been campaigning against ordinary fishing, ordinary trawling, ordinary net fishing, international. And to this we're going to give 29.5 million. kr! Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get I have proposals in the budget to cut it, and I hope that there are some who can be involved. We are losing control of our own country. In the Odelstingen a few evenings ago, we decided that other EEA countries could grant visas to enter Norway. Where Norway does not have a representation, other EEA countries shall be able to issue visas to non-residents who want to go to Norway. Let's see that in the context of the Director's proposal for 40,000 new immigrants every year. We're not talking about 40,000, we're talking about 200,000–300,000, including the family, for every year for ten years. What then? It's to create a workforce. All right! The same people will require more jobs, kindergartens, schools, Norwegian education, native language training, social benefits, housing, health protection, hospitals, police and law enforcement, and after each old age care. What are we going to do with our protective soldiers who are not going to be in the military? Youth is no longer going to be in the military, but what are they going to do? We're going to reduce the offer of those young people who don't serve the duty of protection, so what are they going to be used for? And what about our dissatisfied people who would have liked to get to work, as I said a few days ago? We do not have to face such a situation that Norway loses control of our industry and our natural resources. The districts have moved away, the health services, the care sector, the education system and the police are functioning poorly, the defence is weakened, and healthy food is defective. Having money abroad doesn't help much if we're housekeepers in our own country. I refer to my suggestions, which are referenced in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1238	The representative of Bastisen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1242	It is amazing that each time a charge is reduced, complex investigations, assessments and long treatment periods are required, while in the case of increasing charges, the majority of the Grand Duchy is able to do so overnight and without justification. Now all the parties in Stortinget, with the exception of the Progress Party, have decided to increase the registration fee on passenger cars by 10 p.m., without justification and without long assessments – as to how much the drivers will pay to the Norwegian community, there are no limits. When the Advance Party proposes to lower the petrol tax by SEK 1.50 because the prices in the market have exploded and are over NOK 12 per person. litres in some parts of the country, the rest of the batches, including the Right, appear to be suitable for the world's richest oil-producing countries. The joyous news is that the other parties in the hall consider a reduction in the diesel tax by 20 øre per. liters. I honestly think that a reduction of 20 cents per cent. liters are not so impressive, especially when we know that five months ago the same batches, with the exception of the Right, increased the same diesel tax by 25 cents. For me, when you first increase the fee by 25 cents, then bring the happy news that the same fee is going to be reduced by 20 cents, I do not jump into the roof of joy, simply fine because there is still an increase in the diesel tax for 2000 by 5 cents, and that is not pleasing, especially when it should be a reduction of 2 cents per cent. liters, so we got in line with Sweden and Denmark. I had hoped that today's debate could give me an answer as to why it is that when the nation of Norway earns roughly high oil prices, the population will suffer through sky-high petrol and diesel prices. It should have been curative for Stortinget to do as the Progress Party has suggested, using some of the extra oil revenues to reduce the fuel and diesel tax, so that prices at least came down to a normal level. But no, even here, the Progress Party is clearly alone. I'm going to move on to another and at least the same important topic, namely the pressure in the economy and hospitals. I have doubts about the parties in the hall here, with the Labour Party and the Right in the head, seeing ghosts on a bright day – or whether they are playing a cynical game to avoid spending money on a good health offer today, so that they can save money for their own old age. Norway is one of the richest countries in the world, but when it comes to spending money on providing those who need it, a good health offer by upgrading the hospital with new hospital equipment, it creates pressure in the economy according to the other parties in this room. I thought in my simplicity that it was the opposite that happened if we modernised the hospitals with new equipment from abroad. Because it is probably the case that replacing old hospital equipment with new ones reduces the maintenance costs of hospitals. In addition, new equipment is likely to significantly increase the efficiency of new and modern hospital equipment to facilitate its operation and thereby release hospital resources, resources that can be used for other patient treatment. This shows that the purchase of new hospital equipment from abroad does not create pressure in the Norwegian economy, rather it facilitates the pressure in the economy because it frees labour that can be used for other things. But this is not an important issue for the Progress Party. What is important, on the other hand, for the Progress Party is to help the thousands who suffer in this rich country, simply by showing humanity in practice through donations and not with fine words in celebrations and promises that in two years' time everything will be so much better. Those who need help to get out of the hospital queue need help today and not in two years, as Prime Minister Stoltenberg promises. I cannot, with my best will, understand the inhumane way of thinking that counts when parties in this room get to blame for pressure in the economy to avoid giving money to hospitals, when one knows that, among other things. The church hospitals are forced to cancel 30 employees, the Rikshospitalet in Tromsø says that they have to cancel staff, and more and more hospitals around the country are ticking in the treatment offer. I was down in the street at Fauske on Saturday and talked to some elderly people who were standing at a street corner there. The message from them was ready: stop pumping up oil from the North Sea, because we can't afford to get richer now, because the richer we get in this country, the less we can afford. These people had a good point.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1263	The Norwegian economy is in the main strong and healthy. The most joyous thing about it is that we have low unemployment and high employment. But these are danger signals. There are strong pressure trends in the Norwegian economy, and there is a threatening increase in the price of lurking. A warning about the pressures and, in itself, an unfortunate measure is that we have now again received a new interest rate increase. This also places a responsibility on us to develop fiscal policy, i.e. government and big business. We must therefore hold back appropriations for good, too. I am pleased that, in spite of this power today, we in the United Kingdom are better suited for important purposes than the Government's proposals for the revised national budget did, but within the same responsible framework. The central parties and the Christian People's Party are getting an impact on several important issues within our main political priorities. This applies to: the work for increased employment, inter alia: in the case of an active industrial policy and by renouncing inappropriate proposals, such as: cutting down the reimbursement system for seafarers in health policy, particularly in the hospital sector, where we have had to strengthen the Government's proposals for a more active district policy, including: through stronger efforts in the transport sector and through the SND than proposed by the Government, inter alia, an active family policy. by rejecting cutting-offs in the support schemes that the Government has put in place a more offensive environmental policy – the efforts after the treatment of the Storting today will be greater than the Government’s proposals, and increasing resources for the police action by providing highly trained police college students with a job The revision of the 2000 budget will be adopted by an alternate majority. It's pretty common, as the committee leader also said, and actually a good order. The final result will also be responsible. But it is not just in the budgetary policy of the Labour Party Government that it is seeking alternating support. It has now become the main line of the Workers' Party. In important matters we have discussed in the last few days, for example: in the municipal economy, in the agricultural establishment and in the gas power plant, the Workers' Party receives the aid from the Right. We from the centre parties have always said, even when we were in government, that alternating support from different parties on both sides of Norwegian policy is a straight line and can provide a good and responsible final result. But until today the Workers' Party has meant something quite different. When the Workers' Party was in opposition, they repeatedly demanded from the Center Government that now we had to choose the side. It would result in a lack of control, and it would mean winging if we didn't. We had to make a clear side selection. But now the Workers' Party has switched on the same line, that is to say, to get alternate support from different parties. Yesterday, Mayor Sylvia Brustad stood here and highlighted it as very good that the Labour Party government could get support from various parties, where it is to be picked up. Has the Workers' Party now, in three months, completely forgotten what they said in the opposition about the requirement for page selection? Is what was so wrong under the previous government, now suddenly became quite excellent? Does the Workers' Party impose different requirements on governments and parties other than themselves? The vote here in Stortinget tonight will show that the Labour Party government is going down on a number of failures in the revision of the State budget. That's actually good. There's going to be a better budget audit out of this. But so-called page selection, it's not about what the Working Party has now done. And the uncertainty and uncertainty are even greater because the government party obviously has major internal disputes. We have seen this in the debate on Statoil, on the local economy and now on the EU Patent Directive. The central parties have also significantly influenced this revision of the budget. We're happy about that, because that's when the revision gets better.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1301	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1304	When the government of Bondevik left in March, the former Prime Minister was repeatedly interviewed in the media and among others. asked what role he would play as an opposition policy. Bondevik’s answer was that he would be a constructive leader of the opposition center group. Last autumn, the Labour Party and the Central Parties negotiated the State budget for 2000. It led to a signed agreement. When the government of Stoltenberg took over power in March, it turned out that there were significant expenditure increases in the budget for the year 2000 — all these expenditure increases well known to Bondevik, very well known to the former prime minister, because these were expenditures that had been incurred, most of them, in the time of the central government. Now we've seen in Stortinget that the centre has nevertheless failed to negotiate with the new government on the revision of the same budget. They did not wish to have an agreement with the Workers' Party on the revision of the budget we voted together for the year 2000. In spite of this, very small political differences between what is adopted in the Chamber today are – which is easy to detect – with the votes of the Labour Party and what stands at the centre next to it. These are very small differences. So it's hard to see any real political justification for not wanting this agreement. My question to the representative Bondevik is then: is it really such that when the centre did not want an agreement in negotiations with the Labour Party this spring, it was because having an agreement was on the table today in revised form, then the representative Bondevik had not been able to operate the argument against the Workers' Party that he just made in his post a few minutes ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1315	The real question was whether it was such that the central parties did not want negotiations and an agreement on the revised national budget. The answer to that is that we had no desire to avoid such an agreement if there had been a factual basis for it. But the initial talks that were held showed that the distance was so large that we did not see a basis for such a comprehensive agreement in the context of the revised national budget, and that we actually also saw the possibilities to influence more significantly the final result by the fact that the workers' party government had to operate so-called slump driving. Now, when we see the end result, we've basically been strengthened in it. It's true that the center now has an impact on a lot of its proposals, both where we put in an increased effort, and when we're invading. This is because the Workers' Party has finally agreed to many of our proposals also on the containment side. I would assume that the Workers' Party felt compelled to bring the budget into port with a responsible balance. The final result has been pretty good, although it's disappointing at some point. We did not see the basis for a comprehensive agreement with the Workers' Party on this. It is, of course, as Committee leader Dag Terje Andersen said at the beginning of the debate today, the very usual way of dealing with the revised national budget. If there had been a comprehensive budgetary agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties, it would actually be out of the ordinary, except for the main pattern. The central government also had to invest in the two revised national budgets, so-called slums, and we got to the goal. So it's not unusual when the workers' party government does the same thing. The important thing is the end result. We think that has now been reasonably good, not least because the Workers' Party has accepted so many of the proposals of the Centre Parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1326	I first have a simple question for Kjell Magne Bondevik. This concerns the need to cover the so-called increased costs. There are, of course, the increased estimates of the regulated expenditure in the area of public health that are claimed to be covered. Why does the Christian People's Party not think it is perfectly sound and natural to cover them with modified estimates of tax revenue? If you had set it up like this -- I've allowed myself to make a proper budget bill, as it should have been -- it would have been a net increase in the budget surplus by NOK 2 billion exactly. Why in the world are the unexpected tax increases not used to cover the expenditure increases that have been made? That's the one question. The second question goes a little further – to the autumn. Kjell Magne Bondevik is also a prime minister candidate for the three former government parties at next year's major elections. Then it would be interesting to know, based on the experience of the spring session, how he views the possibilities of a budget agreement and reconciliation with the labor party government for the autumn. Then it is useful, as you know, not to run junk, then you have to have an overall agreement that covers absolutely everything. Based on what has happened in the spring session, is Prime Minister candidate Bondevik optimistic about concluding an overall budgetary agreement with the government of Jens Stoltenberg, to which he will then be an alternative? How does the Prime Minister’s candidate assess the possibilities for reaching a broad budgetary agreement, agreement on everything in the budget, with the government Jens Stoltenberg?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1333	We must not do the budget review until we start the debate on the budget for the autumn, which we do not yet know the proposal. But that is how much I must be able to say after what has happened at the end of this spring session, that especially optimistic in view of any budgetary settlement between the Labour Party Government and the Centre, I am not, not only because of what has happened during the treatment of the revised National Budget, but we have also seen other important issues where the Labour Party Government has sought support – and got it – from the right side and to a large extent from the Right. It was also the two parties that triggered the government crisis in ours, so in a way it's not that unnatural. I do not think what the Workers' Party has done at the end of the spring session has provided a particularly good basis for possible budgetary cooperation between the workers' party government and the centre of the autumn. The central parties are responsible parties, who act constructively, who also seek influence on the policy of opposition, so of course I am not going to cancel every opportunity to find solutions, and a budget must be given to the country. But since Hagen asked, especially optimistic, given that the solutions are to be found with the center, I'm not at the moment. When it comes to the growth of public spending in terms of taxes and taxes, I don't think that a person can just look at the growth of people's money in relation to taxes and taxes. We must look at the total, both in the balance sheet, in the tightness of the budget and in the growth of expenditure. It is an overall assessment of the factors in the budget that have led us to believe that one should maintain about the same degree of rigour as that provided by the Government, and therefore that one could not use the automatic tax and tax growth we have received without changing rates, directly against popular interest, because there have also been so many other expenditures to be covered by the budget review.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1344	It was a generous representative, Mr. Bondevik, who now spoke in his main post – and at the risk of being misunderstood, I get to say economically sober – when he underlined the danger of overheating the economy, the risk of increased inflation and an interest rate pressure that de facto has already manifested itself, and he used, among other things. the expression that it was necessary to ‘hold back on appropriations also for good purposes’. It was accepted. I share Mr Bondevik's joy at the defeat of anti-business proposals such as the Labour Party Government. to extend the sick pay period for the holdings. However, it should be added that there is a proposal Prime Minister Bondevik promoted twice and suffered defeat at both times. We were happy too, we! I have a question for Prime Minister Bondevik, whether he still stands firm on the view he expressed last autumn in connection with budgetary work and in ours, namely on a good climate of cooperation between the centre and the Workers' Party. It was also used as an expression that the centre of gravity of the policy is at the intersection of the Workers' Party – I am not quite sure which, but at least a working party – and the centre. We've been assured that many, many times just have been a reason for not wanting to cooperate with the Right, among other things. I don't want to go as far as asking the Prime Minister candidate to philosophize on the possibilities of agreeing on a budget arrangement for the autumn, but to describe the climate of cooperation now in relation to what he has said in the past. I can only get the little experience from the financial committee's work that I haven't felt the relationship between the center and the Workers' Party there that was characterized by something very good companionship. I have also not felt that many people really thought that there would be an agreement. Yes, we thought that long before the negotiations started, if I dare say, that sat and looked at this a little from the outside during the committee's work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1356	Since the representative Foss praised me for being economically sober, I suppose for the sake of order that I tend to be sober also in other and in all circumstances, not only in these. For the history of the burden on business and also on municipalities, by increasing employers' responsibilities for the sick pay period: when the central government made such a proposal, it was combined with other proposals, which gave business and municipalities a similar relief, which Foss would probably remember – a little popular suggestion, correct, that went on the number of holidays, but it would give a similar relief. That's why there was a balance in our arrangement, and that's why it could be defended. This time it was not, it was a one-sided burden on the employer, including the municipalities, and therefore there was good reason to reject the proposal. So the two cases are definitely not comparable. With regard to the climate between the different political groupings in Stortinget, Foss confirms what I said in my previous reply, namely, that between the Workers' Party and the Centre there is not very good at the moment. I have sometimes wondered if it has become increasingly better between the Workers' Party and the Right, because they have found themselves together in several important issues now in the very last days. I'm not going to exaggerate the significance of that either. It may well be a bit after what happened at the government change also, where the two stood together. But this only illustrates that in Norwegian policy we have more political focus. It is not the old simple two-way and block policy that the Labour Party and the Right in particular have been so happy about. That time is over. Here are different centres of gravity, and these centres of gravity have to learn to live with and to cooperate in the things where it's natural. We've seen a certain pattern for it now in ours. This means that the budgetary procedure for the harvest is open and uncertain. It is not possible to predict the outcome today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1365	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1368	When the Workers' Party government joined in March, there were many uncovered bills and waiting. Additional expenditure on the social security budget, the necessary additional appropriations for hospitals and the under-budgeting of our participation in Kosovo were the largest bills – a total of DKK 5.2 billion in increased expenditure. In examining the revised national budget, we have ensured that the State budget for 2000 is kept within the framework set up by the Government. That is what we are pleased with, primarily for the sake of security of employment and well-being. The main points of the budgetary agreement between the Centre Parties and the Workers' Party are attached. Here it was, among other things. important with a fairer tax system with tax relief for those with low wage incomes, increased investment in the local economy and increased investment in education and housing policy. This is passed on. Economic policy over the last ten years has contributed to a strong increase in employment and a sharp decrease in unemployment. Wage and salary earners have gained a marked real wage growth. Since 1992, the number of persons employed has increased by about 250 000. The growth is distributed among around 160000 persons in the business sector and around 90000 in the public sector. Occupational participation in the population aged between 16 and 74 is now about 74 pst. It is a record professional frequency, both historically and internationally. Norway now has very low unemployment rates. This means that the most important resource in the economy, our labour force, is almost fully exploited. Policy has contributed to an economic freedom that has been used to develop public welfare, including: for kindergartens, school leisure, education, health and care. However, this does not mean that all objectives have been achieved. Needs continue to rise. In the years to come, the public sector will grow and have more resources. We will need more public servants to solve the challenges of education, health, care for the elderly and combating crime. We are also facing other challenges. Health and education tasks are to be done at the same time as the expenditure of the population is growing rapidly. Sick leave is now increasing by up to 10 pst. annual, equivalent to about 10000 annual works being taken out of the economy each year. Developments in disability pensions are also very worrying. These are challenges that we cannot solve without broad political consensus. It will require political cooperation and that we are able to lift ourselves out of the political wreaths that we are currently engaged in in part. The representative Bondevik has invited to cooperate with the Government and with other parties to meet just these challenges. It's affordable. That's an invitation that we're going to accept. The aim must be to create a broad consensus on the necessary measures to continue to ensure popular protection as a pillar of our welfare system, while at the same time addressing increasing educational and health needs. The Labour Party and the Centre Parties agreed to adopt the budget of the year. In the revision of the budget, the central parties chose to reject negotiations with the Workers' Party. However, the distance between the priorities of the Centre Parties and the Working Party is not large. So if we put our positions next to each other, we see the following: the central part's expenditure growth is approximately 256 million. kr higher than the number of employees. In relation to the Labour Party's position, the central parties will move approximately NOK 1.1 billion on the expenditure side. Given the fact that the State budget is about 550 billion kroner, this will be very small sizes, and the proposed redeployments are about 0.2 pst. The central parties propose to strengthen the local government sector for the current year by 57.1 million. kr more than the Working Party. Compared to the total income of the municipal sector of nearly SEK 220 billion, this is directly messaged. It is therefore not easy to identify the actual positions and priorities of the centre parties on the basis of the rejection of the substantive negotiations with the Workers' Party on the revision of the budget. On the contrary, we should agree to find space to give priority to important areas. Cooperation and negotiation will normally allow all parties to find room for their main priorities in the context of stable economic development. It is clear from the opinion that the centre parties are promoting 20 minority proposals, proposals for appropriations which will not receive a majority vote in this Chamber tonight. For the centre parties, there must be a cross of thought that this will be the result when they have chosen to stand outside the influence of a negotiated agreement. The numbers show that the distance is not large. When the central government presented the forecast last year, it was clearly stated that the centre could only ensure a better distribution policy in cooperation with the Workers' Party. The attitude of the Social Committee and the two days ago treatment of the Stortinge confirmed the traditional lines of the distribution policy. The right-wing parties have their own approach in a number of areas, while the centre and the Workers' Party stand together on a continuous basis. Tax policy, housing policy and a number of individual measures aimed at vulnerable groups are clear examples of this. Now it becomes crucial in the future that the centre, not least in fiscal policy, is truly willing to pursue a policy of distribution. When the same batches today join with the right parties to remove parts of the property tax, it is unfortunately a step in the opposite direction. It is persons with the highest income that receive the highest tax relief in the event of such conversion. There's no doubt about it. Also prominent professors of economics are standing up today and claim the same thing. In practice, such changes may result in an early appearance of property taxes as a tax solely on deposits and dwellings. It is probably only in a peaceful prosperity society like ours that we in the national Parliament can build conflicts on such minor contradictions as those we find in the position of the revised national budget. I think we're well served not to look blindly at the many relatively modest differences between the proposals promoted by different parties. And if I have to say it: when the wounds after the change of government are hopefully grown during the summer, we should be able to take the goal of dealing with the minor disagreements through negotiations and cooperation. It would be natural. And then we can take out the disagreement where the main differences in politics really go. Although it has been difficult to achieve negotiated solutions with the opposition, the Workers' Party is getting an impact on all important issues this spring. We are, of course, satisfied with that. However, with reference to what I have touched on in my speech about the strong increase we see in payments over popular security, while the need for welfare services is still growing, I would like to stress that it is a challenge in Norwegian policy that calls for political cooperation. And it's a challenge that no one can stand outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1411	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1414	It was interesting to hear Hill-Marta Solberg talk a lot about cooperation. As far as rhetoric is concerned, it is good on the part of the government party in this regard, but in practice it seems to do what it can – it may have learned from Jan Petersen from earlier on – to get unfriends. I have a few questions for Hill-Marta Solberg. What is the reason why the government party, when an opposition party or several people want an increase in the budget for 2000, says it has to be covered? The previous government parties tried something, and was told that it was only $8 million. NOK again at the external post office. Why does not the same apply to the government party when they have promised 1 billion kroner to the municipalities in 2000? They shift the bill to the harvest – they don't even have the courage to present it to the Stortinget. Why can't this bill be covered? When it comes to next year's municipal settlement, I also want to know what happened to the billion that the Workers' Party group pushed the Government to increase the municipal economy for the next year, i.e. for 2001. There is also NOK 1 billion in the bill for the last two days of the holiday increase in connection with the schedule of tariffs. The first two days are the first billion I've talked about. It's promised the government to cover, but what about the billion that comes next year? Will the Government and the Government Party also cover it, or is the reality that the Government intends to take back the billion that the Workers' Party Group pushed forward in the context of the Community economic proposition? And finally, would the government and government party still be able to be expected to be passive if we continue to get the news reports about Hospital-Norway that we now get? What impact does it have on Norwegian eco-nomy? And why is it necessary to cut hospital equipment by 760 million? kr, when hospitals are calling for new equipment?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1425	What primarily characterises the Progress Party and their participation in the revision of the State budget for 2000, is that they have become the main spending party in the Stortinget and actually compete with SV to increase expenditure. It's worth noting, not least from the history we know of the Progress Party. But at least they haven't come up with any better thoughts about thinking completely in the budget, for example. their recovery for increased expenditure is primarily a one-off income. In view of that, it's a little special that Carl I. Hagen in his reply believes that the Workers' Party is now going to explain how we are going to cover expenses on next year's budget, when the Advance Party is the party that, over some others, spends one-time income in violent amounts, like these 10 billion kroner on mobile licences, in its budget line. In the case of hospital equipment, I allow myself to suggest that perhaps the representative Hagen is speaking against better knowledge. It is a fact that the equipment purchased in the hospitals, for which the country had to settle this year, has already been paid. So hospitals get to fully follow their plans on the equipment side, and the investments to be made next year will be covered until next year. The redisposals made in the revised national budget do not affect hospital plans to invest in equipment. The fact is that the Storting had not made the money available for operations that we do when auditing the budget today, there had been money that had been transferred to next year's budget, i.e. had no direct impact on the activity of purchasing equipment. With regard to what the Government has said about the costs of the wage settlement, there is a separate proposition for the Storting to the autumn at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1436	I noticed the mixture of soreness and accusations against the centre parties for a lack of agreement under the revised national budget. The black Kjell Magne Bondevik in a line to Hill-Marta Solberg. We notice, of course, these open wordings and this intense invitation to cooperation, but there must be a better connection between what is verbally expressed in terms of these cooperation requests and what the Workers' Party actually incorporates in its documents in terms of this same cooperation. There can be little credibility in such an invitation when the Workers' Party goes to the Right to obtain a majority for the local economy, which concerns important basic services in the municipalities, health, school, etc., when they go to the Right to have a majority of an agricultural agreement dealing not only with the conditions of the industry but also with district development, which is important for the centre parties, and when they also go to the Right to obtain a majority for the assistance framework. In addition, when the Workers' Party blows the loop to counter important framework measures for business, e.g. The reimbursement system for seafarers, and the reversal of cash support, I find it difficult to see where realism lies in the invitation from Hill-Marta Solberg. The government is proposing 431 million. increased expenditure on refugees and asylum seekers covered by the assistance framework. It is true that the central government also used the assistance framework to cover such expenditure, but never to the extent that the Workers' Party now does, and never in a revised national budget, which creates major problems. The fact that one gives increased appropriations cannot cover the fact that one here spends more and more money on such expenditure, the funds that were reserved for the poorest in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1445	It is really not very difficult to understand the need of the centre parties to mark the distance from the Workers' Party after the government change. You don't have to be a particularly insightful analyst to realize that such a need exists. But when it comes to political disagreement in the main hall, it must at least be based on real disagreement. My point in my post today was to show that the factual disagreement between the parties in the Stortinget, especially between the centre parties and the Workers' Party, is very small, so small that it's only here on the mountain, in this idyll we're actually living in, that we can allow ourselves to fight about such trifles. That's my opinion. So we're not hurt, not at all. On the contrary, I think there are other places where there has not yet been a crust on the wounds, but then hopefully summer can be a good contribution to that. On the contrary, we are satisfied that we get an impact on the Stortinge case, for that is what we have received. On all important points, the Labour Party has received it this year. We're here to see that the central parties point out that the Workers' Party and the Right agree with each other in terms of the local economy. We need to do that very well, because it is a four-fold improvement in the framework of the municipal sector, than the Bondevik government put forward for the year 2000. We're gonna be fine. We think it's a good setup. In contrast, in the last few weeks, the centre parties have found another billion to the municipalities for the next year. So they have a frame of $5 billion. That's the difference. So once again it illustrates that the differences that we are trying to inflate to certain sizes in the political debates are really rather small. With regard to the use of aid frameworks, I think the Christian People's Party is quite bold, because they've done exactly the same exercises before.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1456	It is a little strange to think back on the budgetary procedure in the autumn, as the love between the Workers' Party and the Centre was so intense that they did not just agree on the budget. They agreed that they expressed the primary position of the two partners, and they declared that the centre of gravity of Norwegian policy was now at the intersection of the centre with the Workers' Party. Now we see, a few months later, which is probably the policy response to a real family problem. It never looks nice. It is quite obvious that the climate is bad. It confirms both parties. But it's often that after such an intense relationship, it's usually a result of it. One of the results is this year's budget, although we remember the debate on the difference message a few days ago, when both Stoltenberg and Bondevik did what they could to distance themselves from their common product. One of the results of this joint product is that we now have a pressure in the Norwegian economy. We're in an upward rate situation. It's a paradox that two days after the treatment of the difference, we discuss the consequence, that those who have to pay the penalties are the families of children and the municipalities. So what is done is not enough in the harvest or this time, with the consequence that the families of children and the municipalities pay. Now it is that the Prime Minister has been very clear that he believes that it is fiscal policy, and only fiscal policy, which, in the interests of the competitive sector, can take this step. But then you have to ask, if you really mean it, why is it doing so little? Is it so that Hill-Marta Solberg distanced himself from the opinion expressed by the Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1467	A brief reflection on the budgetary process last autumn: in the case of the Labour Party, we do not see it as an accident at all that we voted in favour of the budget that we are currently sitting and ruling on the basis of. On the contrary, it seems to us to be a great and important advantage. It would have been considerably more difficult for a new labor party government to enter into a budget where one had actually stood next to most. So there has been no disadvantage to the Workers' Party, on the contrary. So for the impact of the budget on the economy. The Labour Party's assessment, and that assessment shares a large majority of the Stortinget with us, is that it was important in ours to ensure that the budget kept the frameworks laid down this year. In this way, the budget could best help stabilise the economy. Nor is it the case that some environments other than perhaps a few in the Right believe that we should have actually tightened up further in the economy of ours in the process of co-management of the national budget and in the revision. On the contrary, there are a lot of people who have tried to burn up to a little looseness, that here the politicians should actually let themselves loose a little and not argue about being tougher in the class, which I heard the Progress Party took credit for being – they were the toughest in the class. On the contrary, there have been calls for the opposite. So I believe that the Storting's treatment of the revised national budget is important today because it is precisely the budget that keeps the framework laid down. It is also true that the increase in interest rates that has unfortunately come — nobody wanted it — is not a consequence of what is happening in the revised national budget. On the contrary, it has been pointed out, not least by the Central Bank, that fiscal policy has given what should be its contribution to economic policy in ours as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1476	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1479	First to the representative Hill-Marta Solberg: if it is now that the fiscal arrangement for the Workers' Party is so unusually good and adapted to the economic challenges we face, why did we get an interest rate increase of 0.5 pst yesterday, which affects the very weakest of us? Carl I. Hagen asked a question instead of a reply as to why we could not cover increased expenditure due to the increase in activity in the Norwegian economy, with increased income on the tax side. It's actually because workers are the largest scarcity factor in the Norwegian economy. If the labour force does not grow, growth in demand will turn out to be higher prices rather than more goods and services. The only thing that can prevent further interest rate increases is targeted cuts and efficiency measures in the public sector, opening the limits to more workers and increasing productivity in the Norwegian economy. We need to re-evaluate the business transfers, the regulation of the labour market and the organisation of the public sector. Kjell Magne Bondevik stated that it is now unusually important that we keep the tightness, expenditure growth and balance in the revised budget. We have to hold back for good, said the former Prime Minister. I agree. But I guess that's the way you shouldn't be judged by what you're saying, but what you're doing. We had the municipal structure for debate yesterday. There, Labour parity and the Right ensured that more was used for the municipal sector than the Bondevik government had originally planned, but still there was allegedly a greedy attitude towards the municipal sector. It was also ensured that the agricultural settlement remained within a responsible financial framework — a good settlement. In fact, the reality of what Bondevik says is that it's nice that the Workers' Party and the Right settle, so that the interest rate doesn't increase any more – or if I get to say it in these EM times: the point is that the former Prime Minister is actually the best without a ball. Bondevik is the most generous with the budgets he does not promote – it is documented here. And we know that if Bondevik had to take responsibility for the kind of budget that he is now calling for, interest would have gone up further. When the cry to spend more of the oil money is the greatest, we have to remind ourselves that oil and gas production will reach its peak in two to three years. Then the production will stay high for a few years, then to decrease quite markedly. At the same time, the cost of popular fear will increase. This is related to the fact that the large children's councils after the war become old-age pensioners. We have to remember that a public sector that consumes an increasing proportion of society’s resources reduces business growth potential. High public sector employment is an important cause of the tight labour market. An oversized public sector leads to a distortion of private business. This undermines the basis for future tax revenues and public welfare services. At a time when everyone thinks that everything is going so much better, and that there are no limits to the growth of the Norwegian economy, there is reason to remember that if we spend too much oil money, it also has its effect. We've actually used and used oil money. Since 1971 and until today, we have spent 800 billion of them. And calculations actually say that if we had instead invested this money in funds, they would have grown to $1,800 billion. Only the return would have been formidable and could have been used for important purposes: health, the elderly and school. We also need to remember that an over-expansion in the screened sector, based on uncertain and perhaps transitory increases in oil wealth, can lead to a state that economists refer to as ‘Holland ill’. And I think that is actually the biggest danger in Norway today. The name refers to economic developments in the Netherlands in the 1970s. The country received large revenues from gas extraction at the end of the 1960s. Revenue was used to increase expenditure in the public sector. The result was a high wage growth. The industry lost its competitiveness. It caused a rapid decline in industry, leading to major problems when gas revenues fell in the 1980s, and a deterioration in the welfare community. Those were the results of using non-sustainable oil money.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1503	Revising a national budget with a net additional cost of DKK 3.5 billion in relation to the headquarter of the State budget is demanding. Our road choices are clear. The easiest and probably the most popular thing to do is use more oil money, which we probably have. The other route proposed by the Government, which the Committee has been able to follow in its decision, is to cover the cost of reallocation within the budget framework. The last option is a painful and in many ways self-explanatory process, and I record that many people think we shouldn't be doing this self-tankering. However, financial policy must help to keep costs in Norway down and to make Norwegian business more competitive. Without a competitive business, jobs will be insecure, value creation will be nurturing and thus also the potential to provide the necessary well-being within the whole spectrum. In addition, inequality between peoples will increase and the possibilities of redistribution will be reduced. We call for more money for many good purposes each of us, but the point is that if we don't manage to conduct a responsible fiscal policy, it's precisely these good goals that are in the long run losing. Select a line of responsibility where the tightness of the budget will be kept. The priority of the actions will be the more important. The government prioritised ensuring the rights of the people's rights and welfare systems, continuing the peacekeeping operations in Kosovo and strengthening the economy of hospitals. These priorities have been endorsed by the majority of the Committee. Yes, the Committee has also acted through a number of other steps to release more resources for hospital operations, that is, in line with the priorities set by the Workers' Party Government. It is also important that we give priority to what we will live on in the future, and then education, research and stimulation for new business development become central. In line with this, we're increasing the capital of the research and innovation fund by 1 billion. This is also in line with what was foreseen in the State budget. It shows the willingness to bet on research by the Government. It is also important that the objective of strengthening research efforts to bring Norway into line with the OECD average in five years. If one goes into the reason that we have to carry out the painful process in the middle of the budgetary period as budget cuts, there is one feature that is particularly uroan, and that is the development of the expenditure on sickness and social security. We see a steady increase in the relative proportion of the population who have retirement, disability or sick pay. This comes in addition to the fact that more and more people take a long education before they get to work. This means that an increasingly relatively small proportion of the population will create the values we need in order to have a good welfare society and a fair distribution. If the tax pressure is not too high for the working population, these developments cannot continue. We are all going to ring the bells on the people's and the sick, but the goal must be to get more people into work, with the different policies that each individual has to participate in in the labour market. The term ‘work shall pay off’ is highly relevant. We need to create a more flexible working life and a working environment that gives room for more people. We need to use both economic and other means to stimulate business to take care of people who, for various reasons, cannot do a full-time job. It will be a socially correct and necessary measure. The implementation of the reform of skills with the ability to continue training, to lifelong learning, will also be decisive to succeed in this. And the working line with the ability to increase education must therefore be our line to reverse a negative trend that cannot continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1523	It is with great amazement that I am following a debate on the revised national budget, the main point of which for several speakers is the debate on budgetary indicators. In my time in the finance committee – and it was long and hard – I had the SV's alternative budget and the macro impact calculations as a little joke in the drawer here in the hall, for defence use, in order to refute the attacks I knew when someone was going to show that it was not possible to prioritize the way SV would. And that's how SV works today, too. But for others, it is the main point of the entire debate on the revised national budget. In the SV's view, there is far greater reason to be concerned about the oil-corrected political vision indicator, it is in crisis. In the land of opportunity, everything is impossible. We are 165 people elected by the Norwegian people to make decisions on their behalf. And it's necessary to keep track of the economy, but auditing is not an end in itself. If the Norwegian people wanted auditors, it was something they had put out for an audit firm. But now there is a political crisis and an expectation crisis because there is so much gap between the areas where people want it to be more invested and what is heard as a main political message from this assembly. Most people realize that it's not possible to dump an entire oil fund into the Norwegian economy in one direction. But what's impossible to understand is that the world's richest country, the land of opportunity, can't bet on what's most important. So it's not just the oil fund that's overflowing, it's also so that the differences in Norway are increasing. Those who own capital have more than they ever had. It is that, in addition to having an oil fund, we have the best opportunities in the world to re-distribute. Most people appreciate that it is not just money that is lacking in health care. Many people have experienced too much inefficiency in health care to think that only they get more money, so everything works out. But it is hard to understand that it is not possible to bet in such a way that development does not go counter to what you want. SV does not intend to give up until we get a majority on the Stortinget for a proper education and education. I'm going to say that tomorrow, dinner and evening until the majority is in place. It means a systematic effort over the years. It means a standard raising so that there's a certain similarity between what our kids have at home, and the reality they meet at school. This means that content also needs to be changed and much more targeted according to the needs of individual young people and young people. Let's try again in the revised national budget. We don't get a majority. There's a majority to buy frigates, even if you don't know what the defense will look like in the future. It's a majority of taxpayers on wealth, but it's not a majority for schooling. There is simply something serious about the school indicator that the majority of the population are not willing to take inwards. It should have been the main thing here today, together with the fact that the public sector as a whole has too poor a standard, that there has been a huge redistribution towards increasing private consumption for those who have the most from before, at the expense of investing in public goods. So now there's a rough working party rapporteur in Troms in the situation that it's only SV's arrangement for the local economy that would make some significant difference. They have one single choice, and it is to hope intensely that SV will have a majority for its local economy. And they know, of course, that if we can't do it, the option is privatisation, and privatisation is extremely bad district policy, because it comes first and foremost in key directions. There is also something serious about the differential indicator. A few days ago, we stood here in the hall discussing the difference, and there was a broad consensus on the descriptions, but there is no consensus on the measures. The center part drives SV almost to madness. Odd Roger Enoxsen will soon make me tear my hair off. Is it possible to express himself as he did earlier in the Chamber today, namely that the central parties have been in favour of the relief of property taxes, and that was the majority of them? But the second centre party believes about fiscal policy, that one should increase taxation on capital, that is not the majority. Is it possible to sit passively on its wide back – by the way, it is not that wide when we talk about Odd Roger Enoxsen – and just wait for some other parties to come in your way to get them a majority for something? One has to fight for a majority if one wants to do something in politics!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1538	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1541	It is not difficult to agree with the representative Halvorsen and SV in the desire for redistribution, or with all the good intentions described: securing welfare goods, school for everyone, continuing education reform, better urban economy, etc. These are all objectives and intentions that SV share with the Workers' Party. But SV does not point out a policy for the creation of value that is necessary to ensure all these benefits. The welfare state, as well as the solidarity option, is an expression of a mixed economy, a compromise between labour and capital, a compromise that just guarantees the well-being of workers, while at the same time ensuring opportunities for business development. The welfare state is based precisely on a recognition that the protection of employees' interests also requires the protection of business interests and development opportunities. As I said, it is clear from the SV's policy which employees' interests the party wants to pursue. But what is SV's policy regarding the creation of value in society? Or does SV not consider it a necessary condition for the continuation of the welfare project?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1550	I have in all kindness a small prayer to the representatives of the Workers' Party and others, perhaps from the centre parties, who would like to agree with SV, but who do not prioritize the matters they agree with, and that is that they should stop saying so. Because I think it's impossible for the voters to figure out what's the difference between the parties when you go over each other in verbal descriptions of how important the municipalities are, how important the school is, how important it is with less differences, but do the opposite. If you look at this revised national budget, frigates are more important to the Workers' Party than to school. It's a reality. For the centre parties, asset tax relief on working capital is more important than local economy and school. It's the hard facts that count. For us, there is a connection between the public sector and industrial development. It is safe for the Workers' Party, too, and that is probably what Hildeng means when she talks about a mixed economy. That's exactly why we believe that the school effort is so vital to be sure that you have the skills for the future that are needed to create the new jobs. We know that half of the new jobs in the private sector in 20 years' time are not yet invented. But are we sure that we have a school and a education system that is such that children and young people and adults who need further education and training get that competence along the way? This is a very good business policy. In addition, the Labour Party and the SV agree that the taxation of capital in Norway compared to the rest of the OECD is low. It's a very big challenge for the Workers' Party and SV and those from the Centre Parties who really think we should invest in common property, make sure that we have a common fund, and hold it, and not fire up under the myths that someone wants to spread, about how terrible it is to do business in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1557	No one can question the real commitment of the representative Halvorsen and SV to Norwegian school, and they should, of course, be commended for that. It's an important area, where the state of things is in many ways not the way they should be. The fact that the SV and the Progress Party have different approaches to creating a better school is well known. After a long professional life in Norwegian school, however, I do not agree with the description of the misery that the representative comes with. At least this misery does not apply at all. Many municipalities have invested a lot and have a good standard in their schools. When SV claims that more and more money can solve the school's problems, I disagree with each other. We spend more money in Norway in schools than almost any other country. Nevertheless, the results are, to say it cautiously, at the even. This may indicate that there is something wrong with the organisation and the content. A small example is the fact that we use approx. EUR 6 billion in Norway for special education without any idea of the outcome of this initiative. Does SV agree that much can be done within the framework we have, in order to improve the school? Or is it necessary to raise more and more money into the sector when, after all, we are at the top of the world in money use in the school sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1566	No, there's nothing wrong with SV's exposure indicator in terms of school, and we're going to keep it until we get results. I think it's clean words for the money when the Progress Party says they're not going to spend more money in school. I think that's a little tidy up in Norwegian policy. Finally, there's a party that talks straight out of the bag and says they don't think there's anything very bad about it, they don't think there's any need for any more money. It's fine. Then we can have a clean-up in the political debate. Because I think more things are needed, and that's SV's school policy. More money is needed to upgrade schools around. It's not like it's just a big-city phenomenon that it's bad school standards. I've been around a lot of schools in the quite country that's in a wretched state, and that message, after all, kids perceive that they get every day. A six-year-old or a fourteen-year-old — especially those in high school, who have more than enough of all the hormones that float freely from before — realizes that they are not very much worth in one of the world's richest countries, when it is precisely in them that air ends at 12 o'clock and when the plates fall in their head. Then we also want to spend the money differently within the school. Special education for the state budget for schools goes from DKK 5 to 6 billion each year. We would like to be able to add the incentives to the school sector differently. Then we think you'll get into the problem-seeking culture that's in the school sector, and that if you're going to get a few dollars to do better education, you'll have to find a problem child that triggers some kind of special education. That's the only way you can get a little more liberal. This we think is the wrong way to go. We think that instead you should add the bonus for schools that think different and new, and there are a lot of people who do. The good examples should be the rule around the schoolwork. That doesn't mean we're going to run someone for special education, but we're working systematically to change the culture in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1579	The representative, Kristin Halvorsen, tried to describe what the various parties were engaged in in relation to the revised budget. Christian People's Party is among others to have a good family policy — and a good family policy. I thought SV was concerned that it would apply to small children's families. I am therefore wondering if I have registered that SV proposes to remove the cash support completely from 1 August. SV's point of view on cash support is already known. We've discussed them many times. I have no desire to add to a new debate on cash support, because there are different views, and I respect that. There's something that surprises me. Very many families plan – and are used to being cautious. And for the Hansen family, where either mother or father have taken leave from work and are at home with their little ones, maybe cash support is what it takes to make everyday life go up. If SV had received several figures for his proposal, this family would suddenly, if they had had a child in cash support, have received NOK 3000 less per month, and perhaps stood without both a job and a nursery. For the deadline of application which has expired the most. What policy is the SV leading to small children's families in this area? Had anyone proposed to remove the child's fear completely with a few months' notice, it had become an SV ramaskrik, and I would have fully supported it. Here, they propose to remove an amount greater than the amount of child benefit – NOK 3000 per month – on such short notice. What kind of family policy is SV leading here?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1592	It's actually a point for SV to show that by re-prioritizing within the budget framework, you can manage to get some of the things that people think are most important to bet on, for example. school. Therefore, SV in revised this year does the same as both the SV and the Workers' Party did last year: we show how the three billion who go to cash support from August 1 and out of the year can be used for something else, which is more important, for children and families with children. I think it bears witness to a slight drop in commitment from the Christian People's Party when they do not glow with the system of cash support, but are most concerned about the transition problems. I believe the Christian People's Party, the Central Parties, the Right and the Advance Party will have problems in future defending that it will spend $3 billion on the state budget every year for a reform that it turns out has not led parents and children to something particularly more together. At least that's what we know so far. After all, at the end of this growing period, we can settle the accounts for this. Then the cash support will have cost NOK 12 billion. It would have been more than enough to get the high schools up, so they strangled and brightened. They could probably have been seen from all over Sweden with this kind of effort. That's the priority that the majority of population has done. We disagree with that priority, and we want to show clearly through our options that it is possible to give a different priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1603	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1606	The government will further build the welfare community. We want to increase the effort in the schoolwork. We want to increase health care efforts. We want to increase efforts in the care of the elderly. Oil revenues give us greater freedom of action. But no matter how large the oil revenues are, there's a limit on how much the economy can accept at the same time. The increase in interest rates from Norway's Bank is a warning that we are at that limit. An important reason for the interest rate change is that there is high pressure in the Norwegian economy. Cost growth in Norway is higher than in our competitors. If we do not reduce price and cost growth in line with the countries with which we compete, the production of Norwegian goods and services will lose in competition with other countries. This means that industry and other competitive activities are gradually being reduced. Thousands of people will be unemployed. Those who claim in this situation that we should use ‘some billion more’ are actually saying that we should pursue a policy that will increase interest rates and job losses. The relationship between the use of oil money, price increases, interest rates and unemployment is produced by many of them as desktop theory. This isn't theory. It is learned from practical experience in Norway and other countries. The most famous example is the Netherlands, which received large revenues from gas extraction from the late 1960s. Developments in the 1970s were characterised by strong growth in public expenditure. Generous transfer schemes helped many to leave the workforce on a sustainable basis. The result was a high wage growth, a loss of competitiveness and a decline in industry. At the beginning of the 1980s there was a significant deficit in public budgets, and strong restrictions were needed. Unemployment increased sharply. The Netherlands struck with the aftermath of the strong growth in demand in the 1970s. Painful changes and cuts in social welfare systems were needed. The experience from the Netherlands is summarised in the term ‘Hollandic disease’. But Norway has also been infected with this disease. From 1980 to 1986, compensation of employees increased in Norway over 20pst. more than in the competing countries. The peculiar price and cost growth, combined with repeated devaluations, led to a very high level of interest rates. In 1987, the average interest rate difference relative to Germany was almost 12 percentage points. Industrial employment fell by almost 84 000 people, or more than 20 p.m., from 1980 to 1990. That's not theory. It was the reality – the painful reality – of many thousands of Norwegian workers and their families. Towards the end of the long boom in the 1990s, we again experienced the consequence of not keeping order in our own house. Financial policy was not tight enough. Wage growth was too high. At the same time, the oil price fell. We know the result. In 1998, interest rates were increased by 4 1⁄2 percentage points. We can't forget this lesson now, just two years later. We must therefore maintain the same tightness in the budget as when it was adopted last year. Without the proper implementation of budgetary policy, the level of interest would be even higher. I am therefore pleased that the Government now, by an alternate majority in the Grand Duchy, has managed to maintain the tightness of the budget. Since the oil age began, we have spent an estimated 800 billion dollars of oil money. In assessing whether we are going to use even more today, we need to take into account that there is currently pressure in the economy, with labour shortages in many sectors. Many ask what joy we can have of the oil money if we can't use it for the sake of the pressure in the economy. The answer is that we can and should use oil money for important purposes in society – we do it every day – but the pace of use needs to be adapted to the economic situation. A car that gets a bigger petrol tank cannot drive faster, but it can drive any longer. At the end of 1999, the oil fund was worth NOK 220 billion. That's a lot of money. But the state's pension liabilities were at the same time over NOK 2600 billion, i.e. over ten times larger. It is estimated that pension liabilities will increase by over DKK 160 billion only from 1999 to 2000. Even with the high oil revenues we now have, the state's pension liabilities are growing faster than we can fill up the oil fund. There's strong growth in the total payments in the population. In particular, the costs of sickness benefits and disability benefits are increasing. In a few years' time, the old-age pension payments will start to increase sharply. If we do not manage to slow down the growth of expenditure in the population in the years to come, these increased expenditure alone will capture much of the room for action in fiscal policy. At the same time, we face a new challenge: increasing labour shortages in many sectors. We therefore need to focus on the workline and mobilise new labour in all parts of the population. We need a labour market that attracts those who can work. We need to have a labour market where fewer people are disadvantaged and sick, and where there is room for people with disabilities. It provides development opportunities for the individual. It will help to meet an increasing demand for labour in many sectors, and it will allow for the prioritisation of other budgetary tasks as well. It's now 12 weeks since the government took over. It's a short time. The budget for the autumn will be the first opportunity for the Government to present its own financial statement. The goal of the government's economic policy is work for everyone and fair distribution. High and stable employment is itself the main instrument for ensuring fair distribution. It is therefore disappointing that the centre parties will now reduce the scope of labour market measures and thus the employment offer for those with the greatest problems in the labour market. The government will base the option of solidarity on economic policy. There is an overall strategy whereby the social partners contribute to maintaining cost competitiveness through moderate wage settlement. Governments and increases shall contribute through budgetary policy to a stable development of production and employment. Monetary and monetary policy shall be directed towards stability in the value of the crown vis-à-vis European currencies. This means that budgetary policy must be actively used to stabilise economic development. It is not an objective to have the greatest possible surplus on the state budget. On the contrary, in situations of high unemployment, it would be right to stimulate the economy through the state budget – as we did in the early 1990s. But if we are to be able to use the budget in such an active way, we must at the same time have huge profits in periods when the economy is going well – as it is now. The Government has continued in the revised national budget the current monetary policy guidelines. A monetary policy aimed at stability in the krone price makes the close link between wage growth and competitiveness visible. A balanced economic development with low price and cost growth is a prerequisite for achieving the stability of exchange rates over time. Monetary policy instruments must therefore be set up in such a way that, together with the other instruments of economic policy, they help to fulfil that requirement. The government will propose reforms in the tax system. The tax changes shall contribute to fairer distribution and increased value creation and to more people choosing to work. The tax system must be turned towards broader tax bases, low rates, simpler rules and fewer loopholes. It will also have positive distribution effects. The government will propose changes in the taxes on capital and wealth. Here too, the objective must be broader and low rates. However, there is reason to wonder that the central parties now, having been in government for two and a half years, and after that, among other things. in the anti-balancing communication, emphasis has been placed on increasing the fairness of taxation, proposing changes in the taxes on wealth which represent a substantial tax burden for those with the highest incomes. The government will return to the 2001 government budget with an assessment of changes in property taxes, including the issue of exemption from working capital. The Government will follow up quickly on the Committee on Competition's position and make a statement on this in the national budget. The question of the framework conditions for insurance will be dealt with by the Banking Law Commission. The Commission will be given a new mandate and time limit to examine life assurance issues by the end of June next year. It's said before: one should have strong back to wear good times. We now have the opportunity to solve important welfare tasks while laying a solid foundation for our future welfare systems. It requires that we think in the long term, and that we do not fall for the temptation to use the oil revenues in such a way that we have a financial setback. Economic policy must have a high level of employment and low unemployment as its objective. It provides security for the individual and prevents waste with our most valuable resource: man's work and knowledge. Then we don't get away from what are the demanding choices, but that's exactly what is politics: the will and ability to steer towards long-term goals and to make the difficult priorities that are necessary along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1661	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1665	I have two questions for the Minister of Finance. One concerns this extra billion that the Government has notified to the municipalities as a result of the two additional holidays we received through the payroll. So far, none of the representatives of the Labour Party has been able to answer the question – neither the Minister of State nor the parliamentary leader, directly. Given that we are now revising the budget and that we are dealing with the Community economicproposition yesterday, it should be natural for all the expenditure that the Government believes will be incurred in the current year to be budgeted. It should also be indicated where to cover them, especially because the Government itself is concerned with rigour and balance. So far, the government hasn't assigned containment. All it has said is that it has to make a proposition for the harvest, where it has to transfer this money. As the external item is more or less empty, it might be interesting to hear both how the Government will cover this up, and how it believes that this billion will affect the Norwegian economy. The next question concerns monetary policy. I had some problems understanding the finance minister's reasoning, and I would like to ask if it is such that the government has now accepted that the operational objective of monetary policy is no longer the krone price trend, but the domestic economy and low future price increases. For it is once that the same monetary policy mandate has been practiced very differently from the two governors — both current and last. During Storvik, the development of the krone price was treated in a way that is more restrictive than that of the current governor of the central bank, so the economic situation in the country is more concerned. It creates uncertainty among market players and gives us a price through increased risk, and thus higher interest rates. Will the Government clarify this by amending the Central Bank’s monetary policy regulations, or does it feel that the current system is fully satisfactory?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1678	The Prime Minister has made it clear in letters in connection with the payment of salaries in the municipal sector that the State will contribute to a transfer to the municipalities with a view to the necessary provision for the payment of future leave. Here, there are different rules in the state and local government sector, where the state does not have the same provision for provisions as the local government sector has. However, it is natural to define this provision as a form of forced saving. It does not affect the activity of the current year, and therefore the Government has made it reasonably clear already in the letter that went to the parties that the provision of DKK 1 billion is not natural to make proposals for the recovery of — simply because it does not affect the domestic economy in 2000. Otherwise, it will be asked in relation to other questions, such as: the question of state contributions to the payroll costs of municipalities to teachers, for which a certain opening has been given in the letter to which this is referred. But I can hardly understand that the question has not been reasonably clarified already through this letter. The representative then asks questions about monetary policy. Firstly, monetary policy has been clarified. It is established by the 1994 monetary regulation and is confirmed at the latest in the context of the revised national budget. It is a very broad majority in the Stortinget that is behind the currency regulation and the understanding of it – a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. I have registered that the Progress Party has a different view. The Progress Party wants an inflation target. It is my opinion that it would be wrong to move on to an inflation target. So the government won't do it. I also think it might be useful in relation to the debate over the last few days to say that I have registered that some people believe that the board of directors of the Bank of Norway should have been composed only by professional economists. That's not my assessment. I think it is important to have a width in the composition of the Governing Council and to continue the current guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1691	I miss a sentence from the Minister of Finance, namely that he was content that the Government had got several figures for most of its proposals in the revised budget. In return, Hill-Marta Solberg and Dag Terje Andersen said it repressive. Then I can only record that changes in the reimbursement scheme, sick pay period, various environmental cuts, various SND cuts, various cuts in transfers to families with children, removal of taxes on wealth on working capital, etc. doesn't mean that much. It's encouraging to that extent. Many of these proposals have been supported by the Labour Party in Stortinget, but there is still a defeat, according to what the Government stated. And I'm actually, to comment on the unwillingness that people from the Labour Party have said that we in the Center Party have shown against negotiations, overestimated that we've got more through by not going into real negotiations, because we've been able to run slums in the Stortinget and get multiple for things that we think are important. So to a direct question to the Minister of Finance: Introducing, when we started negotiating in the committee, the Christian People's Party asked the Ministry of Finance a question about the licensing of hospital equipment, which the Government had proposed to cut. We asked what this would have to do with further investment in hospital equipment, and we found out that the proposed cut in the equipment plan for the current year led to an extension of the planning period. We also got the idea that if we had added another $55 million. kr of the cut proposed by the Government, they would have been able to complete the plan as it had been adopted by the Stortinge in the previous round. So the Labour Party asks the same question to the same department. And then we get a new answer from the department, which says: ‘Suggest not to extend the period of the plan, as mentioned, there is no effect on the level of activity of reducing the year’s allocation by 540 million. crowns.’» How does that work? Is the answer answered by whoever asks the questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1707	I have no difficulty in saying that the Government has joined up to what was most essential to the Government in the revised budget, simply because what was essential to the Government was that we should continue the same rigour as there was a broad majority for in the Stortinge last autumn, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Centre parties. Then I record that some people make it as if the Workers' Party is trying to tighten up on the budget, that we are talking about budgetary balance. I have hardly mentioned the word 'budget balance' since I joined. On the other hand, I have said that we must prevent increasing pressure on the economy. Then we had to keep the neutral budget that we had, and that's the job we've done. We have not committed to tightening up the budget yet. We've made sure to keep the same tightness. But we had to make suggestions to get it done. But we were also, as the committee chairman, Mr. Dag Terje Andersen, pointed out at the outset in the debate today, open to discussing other solutions. And the Storting has pointed out that it's possible to do it in a slightly different way. Yeah, that's okay, as long as you keep the same tightness. One consequence is to shift part of the problem into later fiscal years, to which some speakers have spoken. But for the current year, I am providing for the tightness to which the Government laid up, and that was our aim. I'm also concerned that we've got a majority for containment. Unfortunately, it wasn't the same way last year. I think it's important that you get it done. Then the representative asks Haugland if the answers are colored. No, they're not. You're just asking questions about two different things. It is correct that the Government’s plan was to extend the equipment plan for two years. Then you could have had a steady allocation in the following years. Now, what you're doing is you're taking out the transferred amounts that are right there. This means that the burden for the Government in planning next year's budget will be considerably greater than that of the Government's original arrangement. This is why a different solution has been chosen now, which provides for an impact for the current year, but which has the cost of further granting in the last few years that are left of the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1720	After Norway’s Bank’s increase in interest rates last Wednesday, the Minister of Finance sent out a press release, which included: says: ‘Those who claim that we should use ‘some billion more’ are actually saying that we should pursue a policy of increasing interest rates and losing thousands of jobs in industry and competitive activities.’ The Minister of Finance has repeated the same thing here in the Chamber. I fully agree with that. However, I wonder why the Minister of Finance chooses the current level of expenditure as a zero point. Why not spend even a few billion less? That, according to the Minister of Finance's logic, will give us lower interest rates and thousands of new jobs in industry and competitive activities. Perhaps the government's leading international economic adviser, the OECD, confirms this in its latest report «Economic Outlook» and writes that there is a high risk of overheating in the Norwegian economy. The organisation believes that the result of a lack of convergence in financial policy will be an increase in interest rates. Is it the case that the Minister of Finance does not want a lower interest rate than the one we have today, when he now insists on a neutral budget in today's situation, despite the fact that the Norwegian interest rate is above interest rates in euro countries? Is it the case that the Minister for Finance does not want more employees in industry and competitive activities? If the Minister of Finance wants lower interest rates and more employees in competitive activities, why has he not reduced public expenditure in the revised budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1736	The representative, Børge Brende, is right to say that, in isolation, an even tighter economic environment will mean a reduced pressure in the Norwegian economy. That's the correct starting point. At the same time, when the budget was examined last autumn, there was a broad consensus in the Grand Duchy that a neutral fiscal stance was to be taken. The review of the revised budget is a continuation of the financial framework laid down for the year, and it has been the starting point of the Government. Then, in addition, the review of the revised budget this year has been far more demanding than usual, because there were a particular amount of expenditure incurred during the year, for which there had to be coverage through the revised budget, and which therefore had to be financed in the absence of an expansive budget. That job has been done by the Government. I would like to add in connection with what I answered the question from the representative of Svarstad Haugland, that it was crucial for the Government in that context that a solution was found in the Stortinget, which meant that the same rigour could be maintained. So I think it's important to say that my idea of treatment is that it was probably easier to agree on the cost increases than the cost reductions. That's why there's every reason to give credit to the committee's chairman for all the cycling he did with the checkbook – it was absolutely essential to get the result we're dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1747	The Minister of Finance also referred to the unsocial and unsolidaristic nature of the Centre Party's proposals for cutbacks in labour market measures. In St. prp. No 61 provides half-hearted defence of the level of appropriations allocated to labour market measures. It is said that despite the fact that unemployment has risen much less than what you thought, you have nevertheless found it right to maintain the level. And when we recently see that especially some of the industries that were most affected, namely the offshore industry and the shipbuilding industry, can now report a strong order entry in relation to what was previously done this year, there is a lot of evidence that the level of budgeting of the centre parties is far more accurate than what the government has planned. But what I wanted to ask the Minister of Finance about is a completely different topic. The Minister of Finance said in his main speech that he would come back with the assessment of the property tax, including the exemption from the tax on working capital, in connection with the budget for the autumn. The size has not asked for any assessment of this. The size has determined that there should be an exemption from taxes on wealth on working capital and that the Government should bring it back to the autumn, and I assume that the Minister of Finance intends to follow it up. In my opinion, more taxation on consumption and less taxation on savings should be ensured. It makes sense to tax money that stays in the company, less than what you do now, and tax what is taken out of the company harder. It also gives a good distribution profile. In my main post, I said that there is a majority on the Stortinget for a model for taxing dividends on shares, if the Workers' Party wants to. My question is, will the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1758	I understand that the representative chooses to go relatively quickly over the issue of the effects on the labour market of the proposals that the centre parties, including the centre party, have promoted. Thus, a significant reduction in the labour market rate and a significant reduction in labour market measures have been proposed here. And what's the consequence of that? Indeed, a consequence of the reduction in the labour market situation is, among other things: that the centre party, which is engaged in the operation of public activities throughout the country, has set up a race which is likely to result in the need to place branch offices in the labour market seat and which means that one will not be able to make an equally good offer, one will offer a worse offer, to those who are weakest in the labour market and who will have to be followed up. And what is the outcome of what the Central Party proposes in terms of labour market appropriations? Well, it's like this year it's set at 11,000 sites, divided by 12,000 in the first half of the year and 10,000 in the second half of the year. It is not the case that the tasks such as, among other things, come to the oil business, to which the representative referred, will immediately arrive. It'll take time before they get into activity, and it'll be possible to do it next year. Thus, the centre will cut by 3,000 places, bringing the level of action in the second half of the year down to 7,000 action places. Then there has been a consensus that 3,000 places should be allocated to oil-related activities. Then there are 4,000 places left, and then the consequence of the running of the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left here is that there is such a low level of action that vulnerable groups will be affected on the labour market. There is such a low level of intervention that it will go beyond the priority target groups, such as the long-term unemployed, social welfare recipients and immigrants. This is a policy in contravention of what the former government announced in the Equalization Notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1765	President! Can I get the floor for a manifest misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1772	The President will ask the representative Enoch to come up to the President's office while the next line is in progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1775	First, a comment on what the Minister for Finance said and, as the Chairman of the Committee, Dag Terje Andersen, said earlier today, the most important thing about the budget was the tightness. In it, of course, there's a statement that you don't have any direction, the most important thing was that it was cut somewhere, in principle really anywhere. Unfortunately, it shows with all possible clarity what this revised debate has been and what the budget actually is. There will be a debate and a policy without direction. And when both the Chairman of the Committee and the Minister of Finance confirm this, it refers to the over-objective of the abuse of the possibility of this budget in fact. But what I was going to challenge the Minister of Finance is this: he says that he wants a fair tax system – I very much agree with that – but of course there is also a recognition that the tax system we have is not fair. And that's right. The 1992 tax reform introduced a fundamental injustice at the bottom of our tax system, namely that a common proletarian, ordinary worker, can be taxed to over 50 pst. of its income. In addition, employers' contributions must be paid, i.e. double-taxed, while capital must never be taxed by more than 28 pst. and that of the company. This fundamental injustice in our tax system has worn us off from 1992 onward. In 1998, the last year from which we have a dividend, SEK 52 billion is spent on dividends in Norway. Of that, it's approx. $30 billion that goes to private taxpayers, i.e. businesses and individuals. So these 30 billions cannot be exempted from taxation if, at the top of everything, working capital is to be exempted from taxes on wealth. Then we are faced with the following situation: we must cut public consumption, cut down on schools, kindergartens and whatever else, and then 30 tax-free billions flow around the system, which we should not be allowed to touch, because it is so-called double taxation, while every other krone in Norwegian society is not only double taxed, but triple taxed and ‘pirple taxed’ – simply because the crown's road through society is known to be unassailable.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1787	I'm afraid I have a slightly different starting point than the representative of Djupedal when he raises questions about what this debate is about. The starting point of the Labour Party and the Government for this debate is that it is about how we can secure jobs in Norwegian society, and it is about how we can avoid increasing the pressure on interest rates, which may affect not least young people in the start-up phase. The increase in interest rates that we received in 1998, as a result of the failure to take into account the warnings about the development of the Norwegian economy, led to the transfer of tens of billions from youth in the start-up phase of housing and study loans to well-established book money. That is what this debate is about. So it is that the Government, in order to avoid increasing the pressure, has promoted measures to maintain a new state budget summit. And then we've always said that we're open to discuss other ways to do it. But we have also made some important choices in relation to the revised budget. We could have moved home the KFOR team - we chose to continue it and take the bill. We could have proposed changes in relation to the benefits of popularism – we didn't do that, we chose to continue them, without weakening the employees, and we paid the bill. We chose to give priority to increased health care efforts and take the bill. And then, together with the other parties in Stortinget, we have come up with further redispatches during the treatment in Stortinget. There are important balances within a framework, but however comprehensive it is essential to ensure jobs and to prevent increased pressure on interest rates. Then both the representative Djupedal and I are strongly critical of the proposal to exempt working capital from property taxes. It's enough that capital is taxed slightly more than 28 pst. because one has to include the loss in value and one has to include the property tax. I register the proposal from SV in connection with dividends. The Labour Party has established the tax reform adopted in 1992.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1796	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1799	The revision of the budget shall, after consultation, take place. S. No 243 for 1996-97, is about necessary adjustments in the year's budget. It must, after a general understanding, mean that a person must adjust for unforeseen expenditure, income, changes in estimates or unforeseen events, downgrading decisions etc. The document we are examining now goes much further than that. Here we find new policies and rematches on old things. The Progress Party has, to a poor degree, tried to stick to what is really meant by the revision of the budget, including. a. in the interests of users, who experience a completely impossible situation when the framework conditions are changed several times a year. Like many others, including a number of economists, we also have difficulty understanding the need for a number of the cut government suggests. In particular, this money for purchases abroad, such as hospital equipment required, which, by increasing the effectiveness of hospitals and several sick persons back to work, would just help to dampen the pressure in the Norwegian economy. If the government really believes in its own proposals, it has at best a major pedagogical problem in explaining most people why the government of the world's second richest country appears to be running a bankruptcy residence. It is difficult to understand that while the state treasury almost floods with money, we have to shut down hospital posts, operate with old and rational equipment, and say no to a completely necessary expansion of nursing homes. Instead of being hypnotized by the economists in the Ministry of Finance, the government might want to listen a little bit more to the economists who say that it is possible to solve a lot of tasks using oil wealth without leading to inflation, interest rate increase, unemployment and other accidents, because it is not that all public expenditure works in the same way. Unfortunately, the government's response so far has been as in the fairy tale of the crumbling against the current - rock, rock, rock. But we are also dealing with several issues in this debate, and I would also like to say a few words on a very important matter, namely case No. 7, which is about corporate tax. When Stortinget applied corporate tax from being a partial municipal tax to becoming a purely state tax, the justification was, among other things, a. that there was a tax with which there was considerable uncertainty and which was unevenly distributed between the municipalities. A conversion would have a good distribution effect, it was claimed. Now, of course, one can discuss whether it is distribution or distribution The Storting operates when they distribute mild gifts to the municipalities, but the point must be that before you can make a distribution, something has to be created to distribute. Local authorities must have an incentive to facilitate business and to give priority to industrial development in municipalities. The fact that municipalities also have other motives for driving industrial development than the income from corporate taxes is not necessarily true. For many municipalities, it is probably true that there is a close link between jobs and tax revenue, but that applies far from all. It assumes that it is the case that all or almost all residents have their jobs in their own municipality, and that is not all places, especially in densely populated areas or in relatively small municipalities. I will take a few examples from my own county, Vestfold, where the workplace and housing are often located in different municipalities. Tønsberg, which is the county capital and has many state and county jobs in addition to a significant industry and service industries, imports labour from all the neighbouring municipalities. When Tønsberg no longer receives tax income from the companies, there is no interest in facilitating the development of new business. It only means expenses for the municipality. Therefore, Tønsberg has recently rejected a company with 250 new jobs and is re-regulating business areas into housing. The neighbouring municipality of Stokke, which is a typical agricultural municipality with a small population but has relatively large areas, is in the same situation. There, through intermunicipal cooperation, a large business area, Borgesskogen, was allocated with the significant costs it entails. Now it turns out that just about. 10 pst. of those who work in this business area, live in the municipality of Stokke, and the municipality sits after the loss of company tax largely only with expenditure, and the councillor proposes to increase the VAR fees by from 6 to 30 p.m. next year to cover the significant investments made. It is difficult to imagine that the people elected in Stokke will be able to deal with the development of new industrial areas with the first. These are just a few examples from my own neighbourhood, but if a belief in all the statements that have come from municipalities around the country, they are far from unique. I am therefore afraid that the conversion will lead to a fight for taxpayers, but that economic development will go a long way down on the municipal priority list in many places. It might not have been so dangerous if we could be sure that the companies would settle in other Norwegian municipalities, but it is not safe at all. It may as well be that enterprises are not started or they choose to establish themselves abroad. This cannot be said to be a sensible policy. That the majority of the committee has chosen to reject the proposal did not come as a big surprise, but at least I have recorded a little light in the dark, namely the proposal to evaluate the reform. It's to hope that the majority will see how wrong this is.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1823	I would like to remind you that today we are dealing with a budget that was created and presented by the central government in October 1999. The working party then entered into an agreement with the central government on the budget, and that is what we are now going to jointly review. Making a budget is, as many know, a nine-time job, with many disappointments and hard fights, both for government members and big business representatives. I assume that the central government at the time they provided the budget was fully aware of both the strengths and weaknesses of its own budget. One of the obvious weaknesses must have been in the hospital operating budget. This has probably been well known by members of the Finance Committee, former State Councils of the Bondevik Government. That's why it's a great deal of comfort that, in cooperation with a labor party government, you've achieved a better result for sick people than you could in government. It is therefore quite surprising today to hear that the centre politicians boast unhindered about what they have done in relation to the operating budgets of hospitals. They said they failed in their own government at the same time. The Labour Party is naturally pleased with what we have done in this sector in cooperation with the Centre Parties. In terms of cooperation, I noted the lack of enthusiasm of the representative Bondevik in relation to cooperation with the Workers' Party. After what I understood, it was entirely due to the Workers' Party. I allow myself to say that I have some doubts about that, because I know something about it. The working party really tried to reach an agreement. And isn't it that it's closer to the truth that the former central government didn't want to play with a labor party government, because what we're seeing now is that several of the former state councils are very high on the field when it comes to spending money. Among other things, we have seen Meltveit Kleppa in fine drive with the millions. She made suggestions that would never be promoted by her own government. The preparations for the election campaign are already under way, and I think that the retired Bondevik government must actually take care not to be as the representative Børge Burnde mentioned so beautifully here instead – ‘best without a ball’. The revised national budget has many weaknesses. One of them is that the assumptions for the 2000 allocation change mid-year, so that organisations and agencies that have expected a certain amount of money are disappointed and have to re-prioritise during the year. It can be very difficult. I finally want to take up a small matter that is close to my heart. I hope that's allowed in a financial debate. I'm glad the Finance Committee has granted $2 million. additional to preventive predatory measures in Hedmark and Eastfold, which are heavily affected by the predatory problem. This is an encouragement to those small users who have difficulties in surviving with predators near bofe. It's also positive that we've managed to redeploy funds to a professional hunter's corps to kill predators. Many have probably reacted that this is not done by local hunters. I am of the opinion that professional hunters with experience in predator hunting must be used with local hunters with knowledge from the surrounding areas in order to be able to quickly kill the predators for which it has been granted the breeding permit. Both of these measures, plus easier access to shooting predators, have made me somewhat more optimistic about predator management in the future. But I must warn the Minister for the Environment, if she is to find any hope in this, that the resistance to predators in the nuclear areas will continue with the same strength as it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1838	The pressure in the Norwegian economy is present. Therefore, it is important that fiscal policy, and in this case the revised national budget, do the job in relation to the division of labour we have between monetary policy, income policy and fiscal policy. From the Christian People's Party's side, we acknowledge that the budget for which the country is now headed is essentially what was presented by the Bondevik Government, and on which we negotiated an agreement in connection with the budget position last fall. But we're not in the same revision as the current government presented in May. That is why we do not have an agreement on this revision of the budget either. However, I would add that in view of the economic situation in our country, it is good that the final result is in line with the budget we adopted last autumn. It is necessary to keep up the growth of expenditure, especially because of pressures in the economy. More pressure will cause interest to increase further, with the risk of increased unemployment. The Centre Party has been responsible for the economic development of the country in its alternative audit. There has been a lot of discussion about monetary policy conducted by Norway Bank. It is an important area and one of the pillars of economic policy, and therefore monetary policy is the theme of each budget management we have — including in the revision of the budget. In this context, I would like to stress that the currency regulation adopted in 1994 emphasises a mutual relationship between measures of stable exchange rate and low inflation. This was concluded by Stortinget in the context of the revised national budget for 1994. The assessments that were made, I think I'm also covering today. I would like to give a short quote from that time: «The monetary policy, together with the other instruments, shall contribute to stable economic development. Continuing a low price and cost increase, in line with or below our competitors, is a prerequisite for achieving this.» I think that a healthy economic development with low price and cost growth is a commitment to achieving stability in the exchange rate over time, I stress it. The monetary policy instruments used must therefore be set up in such a way that they, together with the other instruments of economic policy, contribute to fulfilling this commitment. On the basis of this assessment, Norway’s Bank shall assess the strength of the Bank’s means of action, in the light of developments in the currency market and the situation in the Norwegian economy. It's in such a context one must also see the last interest rate increase that now came from Norway Bank. It's business that's going to get us the income and the growth of the economy that the country needs to have a healthy and good development. There was a negative proposal in relation to the business administration, when suggestions were made to increase the employer's period for sick pay. In addition, this would also result in a greater burden on municipalities and municipalities with the difficult economic situation of many of them. I am therefore very pleased that we have the power to show you again this presented. The scope of business is also our basis for asking the Government, in the context of the 2001 budget proposal, to submit proposals for exemptions from taxes on wealth for economic activities. I mean, the notion of ‘nutritive assets’ is more precise than ‘working capital’. I am pleased to say that this has been presented in a number of ways, as the Progress Party and the Right have given its subsidiary support to it. The business environment is subject to framework conditions which allow for the strengthening of equity. When one knows that capital flows freely across borders, it is even more important to find arrangements that make the capital involved in the creation of value remain in the country and in the enterprises. The Christian People's Party is busy bringing about a change in tax policy, so that we tax more on resource use we want less, while at the same time giving light to areas that we want more of. A conversion so that taxes on capital become more approximate taxes on labour, must continue to be worked on. At the same time, it is important to ensure that a conversion has a social profile so that it is easier to benefit primarily from the lowest incomes. It is important that the tax system always has the highest possible legitimacy among the people. In the financial sector, major changes are taking place in a short time. Therefore, it was positive that the so-called Hope Committee made its recommendation in March this year, and that the recommendations were clear in some important areas for this industry. I would like to stress that it is very important for the Government to follow up what is agreed today, and give the Storting an explanation of what changes have been made to the rules and what changes to the rules require a little more time to be implemented. The Centre Party has also demonstrated a clear priority for important purposes in its submissions. The district and business conditions and the hospital economy are the areas I want to develop in connection with this audit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1862	I have recorded that in the context of the revised national budget there may have been some misunderstandings, or misinterpretations, regarding the effects of adjustments to the health budget and therefore would like to make some clarifications. This applies primarily to the so-called equipment plan which has also been mentioned in the debate today. This is a plan adopted by the Stortinget in 1998 involving exceptional investments in equipment in hospitals during the five-year period 1998-2002. A total of 2 960 million has been decided for this period. NOK, i.e. close to NOK 3 billion. Let me make it explicitly clear that this plan is fully implemented in accordance with the assumptions laid down in the Storting decision. Then the government has proposed some adjustments, and during the work on the revised budget a majority has been obtained to make a cut in the current year's appropriations for the equipment plan of 760 million. kr. Some people seem to have seen this as an expression that the plan is not being implemented as intended and that this has unfortunate consequences for hospital equipment acquisitions. It's in case of a misunderstanding. The ratio is that for the current year of the plan, a total of 380 million will be paid. kr. This constitutes, as provided, 60 pst. of hospital investments in 1999. Both because of transfers from last year's budget and because of larger appropriations than necessary this year, a total of 1169 million were available. kr on the State budget for 2000. It was therefore possible to make such a large cut without having any impact on the equipment plan or on the investments of hospitals. So once again, the proposed cut of 760 million. kr has no impact on the equipment acquisitions resulting from the planned plans and that the equipment plan adopted by the Stortinget in 1998 will be fully implemented in accordance with the assumptions. I believe the Storting's assumptions about the planned implementation of such a plan over five years were very reasonable. Of course, I have a great deal of understanding of the desire to do even more for the health sector in an even shorter period of time, but here – as usual – is not the best solution to all the problems of making the most of money in the shortest possible time. It takes time to implement such plans in such a way that we also get the most back for the money. I would also like to take the opportunity to say that some of the same applies to the psychiatry plan that we are implementing. This too was agreed by a unanimous increase in 1998, which means that during the period 1998-2006 we will allocate a total of SEK 6.3 billion for investment in mental health protection. In addition, the level of the annual operating costs shall be brought up to a level of DKK 4-5 billion higher than that initially assumed. A good proportion of resource use is related to the local development of treatment provision. To this end, EUR 175 million was allocated on the current year’s budget. kr, which together with transfers from last year's budget provided a framework of 266 million. kr. However, based on the county project reports, we can conclude that due to certain – and I would say very understandable, very normal – delays in construction work will not be relevant with payments of in particular more than 216 million. kr in year. It is on this basis that I believe it was quite natural to carry out the said cut of 38 million. kr on these investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1884	I really wonder what the Norwegian people have done, since the Government and the majority do not want them to improve their situation in important areas when the country's economic situation is significantly improved. The state has a much better economy than what you had reason to believe last November. Instead of the fact that most people get better, they get worse in some areas. There was an increase in prices and fuel costs in the budget, which has cracked. The government could have done something about inflation and price growth by reducing charges, keeping the prices in the budget. Someone says that if we, for example, reduces fuel taxes, and people will get more money between their hands than they have now. Yeah, that's right. But they would have got no more than what the Government itself had put into its original budget assumptions. I note that the Government could have improved the situation through tax relief. After the strike, the Progress Party said: Now it is important that businesses do not get more costs than what is in the budget requirement, rather let us give tax relief from the bottom rather than roll the bill over to the companies and thus increase their competitiveness. Neither did the government. And we said that if you don't do these things, it becomes a cost increase, and then there's probably reason to expect an interest rate increase. The government could have prevented it. They rejected our views and said that the most important thing was the sum, the balance, in the budget. The government was wrong! The government had one single starting point, that's to prevent interest rate increase, and it didn't work out. There is now evidence that the government’s economic policy led to exactly the opposite of what the government said it would do, and the government could have done if it had reduced the fees, kept the inflation in the chess and reduced the cost growth of the companies by tax relief instead of going to gross wage increases. The central bank manager has made it clear that it is the cost growth of Norwegian business and inflation that is the starting point for the interest rate assessments, and he has set up interest rates because costs have risen and inflation has risen. This could have prevented the government. In addition, the government has not been able to answer whether the local government sector will be able to recover an exceptional transfer of DKK 1 billion for 2001 in order to avoid the impact of the last two holidays. That's where it's supposed to be raping the last billion that the Workers' Party's group fought for. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg has shown that he does not manage to get out of the AUF leadership role and the school debate troll, but continues with vulgar argumentation. The other night, in a TV debate, he said that when the Progress Party is adding to an income from auctioning concessions for the establishment of third-generation mobile communications systems – the same as the Social Democratic Government in Denmark does, and as the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Social Security have said is quite right – it is monopoly money. But he himself is balancing the budget with monopoly money: 800 million. for exactly the same licences, which have no withdrawal effect, and then there must be monopoly money. It would have been nice to hear if Jens Stoltenberg could respond when there is money changed from real money to monopoly money. This applies to the original decisions of the Government – 400 million. kr is okay, but no more? Or the government party increased it to 800 million. kr, is that all right? Does the limit mean that there will be monopoly money at 2 billion or 1.5 billion? And in addition, we have this falsum that the Government is running with regard to the budgetary procedure. State Council Tore Tønne just said that the 760 million. kr to equipment acquisitions which he has stopped do not have an activity effect. Then there must also be monopoly money according to the terminology used by Minister of Finance Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen when he refuses to use tax increases to cover the unpaid bills.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1903	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1906	Although I also have a background from the AUF, I hope that Hagen does not take it badly that I am approaching the problem he was in at the end. Among the more curious things in this setting is the discovery of the mobile phone by the Progress Party. And as I see it, you want to auction off concessions and expect an income of 10 billion kroner, or in Hagen's usual vocabulary: 10,000 million dollars. Of course, you can ask yourself how realistic it will be, and who will be tipped over with this income. My point, however, is another: the party of progress has as far as I can see, the clearly strongest increase in expenditure in relation to the government’s arrangements – in relation to all parties, including those that are usually relatively extravagant in this way. And then this comes out as a sort of improvement in the balance of nearly 7 billion kroner, which means that there must also have been a good deal of tax relief. Then my question to Hagen is: how will you finance further operations, how will you finance the current expenses you incur in the years that come, when you now fund this smoothly and with a pen stroke with an auction of licenses? This is going to be the most expansive and perhaps the most irresponsible financial arrangement that a party stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1915	First to the last. The working party does exactly the same in case, based on Tom Thoresen's thinking. They're making $760 million. kr on equipment, investment costs, because it has no activity effect. They also fund 800 million. kr of one-off income. In other overviews, we can see that they do the exact same thing. And if we go through all of the changes, there's both investment and operation bolts to bumps around each other as if both parts were to have the same effect, which, of course, is completely meaningless, which is largely the majority of the revision of the budget. And who pays these billions? I repeat: there are social democrats elsewhere who do the same, and the leader of the Bestum Workers' Party braided his own government in the newspaper yesterday. All other socialist and social democratic governments are now sending this to the capitalists, the strong capitalists of the telecommunications companies. So if we're the most joyous, in the case of his assessment we're also the most socialist and social-democratic party, let me say social-democratic in the sense that we're occupied by people most in this country and how they feel. We refuse to be involved in cutting the welfare systems that people most need, and we do not want to be involved in creating a new budget. We think it is dramatic that the defence in the middle of a fiscal year – where contracts and agreements have been concluded by public agencies – loses 500 million. kr which they have intended to use. It is completely irresponsible to make such changes in the middle of a financial year. We look at each effect of the things we do with the budget, and if it has no macroeconomic significance, neither will the sum of many items that do not have macroeconomic significance individually.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1925	Unaccountable to cut the budget, said Carl I. Hagen just. I think of a song from my childhood when I listen to the debate today: «Yes, the money, yes, the money is a concern for the poor and for the rich.» Today, the most concern is the rich. I agree that we're going to keep working on the distribution here at home, but that's not what my theme is right now, because most people have before me talked about it. It must be possible to think a little bit beyond our own little garden, and that's what I want Hagen to do now. The Progress Party says Norway is one of the richest countries in the world. Yes – agree. Money invested abroad does not create the same pressure in the economy here at home as other money. Yes – agree. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that it is our responsibility to use something more resource for developing countries than what we are doing today. International justice and solidarity are also something that politicians are concerned about. It is preventive peacekeeping, preventive refugee work, because we know that poverty is one of the main causes of unrest and strife. The World Bank's evaluation of last year's assistance determined that assistance is beneficial and, in particular, when channelled to countries that pursue a development-oriented policy, it reaches a successful conclusion. Norway is one of these countries that invests in the so-called right countries. So the Bondevik government took a long step towards this, when a plan for debt and strategy for industrial development in the south was presented: to help people where they are, and to enable them to develop their own. The Progress Party shall, in its comments on the foreseeable framework conditions for budgeted activities, indicate that no budgetary changes are made in the middle of the financial year, irrespective of whether the change means more appropriations or cuts, unless there are clear grounds for making the necessary adjustments. What is the reason why the Progress Party is now breaking the principle by cutting aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1936	We are discussing the revision of a budget and not a budget as such. I would like to have a debate at any time on aid policy, but it does not belong to us now that we will not make any specific changes to this revision. When you boast of the u-help, I must say that for a twenty-year period you have given money to Mugabe, who now turns out to be a dictator. That's where we've cut out a little bit. I think you should take that discussion a little seriously and look at what the effect of the assistance has actually been. In fact, we have argued many times, that dictators who have enriched themselves with the aid of the Western countries have been maintained, and that dictators have been prevented from being removed, so that perhaps a sensible development of the countries could have started. Mugabe is a good example, as we have said for years, even when former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland gave him a warm embrace in the UN and talked about his good friend. It is our view that we have a primary responsibility for our own population having a satisfactory supply of care for the elderly, school services, hospital services and other medical services. I find it amazing that in our wealth of money it is impossible to get the Workers' Party and Jens Stoltenberg to declare that no termination will take place at any Norwegian hospital due to lack of money, and that what the hospital directors can quickly acquire from necessary modern equipment, they must have access to acquire because the state ensures the money for this. It can't be as complicated to get money from the state over to the hospital directors as Tore Tønne later as.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1945	The representative, Hagen, is pushing violently against the bulk of the population and trying to get his own track half with money that doesn't seem like other money in the economy. I'm going to let it lie down and rather invite him to roar a little towards the socio-economic production he's getting in charge of today's business, with a strong criticism that ends like this: "The only Hagen method achieves is to hide away the unpleasant consequences for a while more." There's a longer reasoning behind this. I am sure that the representative Hagen has read it, and I would like to hear his socio-economic responses. So one more moment. The representative, Siv Jensen, said in an article earlier today, something that was alarming to be from the Progress Party. I've looked at the stenographic preliminary print, and I quote the following: "Perhaps we should start to pursue an expansive fiscal policy..." That's a question, though no question mark has been set. I wonder if Hagen can remove the "question," i.e. answer the possible question, because it would be relatively alarming if the Progress Party now – because there is a revised budget we are dealing with, and he says that they are not cutting anything – should start to pursue an expansive economic policy. Finally, one detail, but it's 100 million. I'll give you that as well. The Party of Advances and the Right is opposed to the lending scheme for school books. It's now also become the center. In other words, it would have been a majority to cut the 100 million. kr which has not yet started to be used, as the school year starts only until the autumn. But this prevents the Progress Party from a majority against, while they are with the Right in favour of a proposal asking the Government to wind up the lending system from next year. So we're going to have to establish a 100 million loan scheme. kr from the harvest, and then it will wind from the next year. Is there a reasonable use of resources in the economy? I'm addressing the question to Mr. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1954	Now it's nothing new that Per-Kristian Foss is suffering from a lack of ability to perceive relatively simple things. We've argued with a wide pen that we don't want to fight about the budget. That means that we are voting against proposals we are usually in favour of, because we want to show respect for the adoption of a budget for the year. If we don't have new things, we're keeping the budget, precisely because we want to be predictable. With regard to these school books, an undertaking has been adopted, work has been started to implement it, and then we will not change things in the middle of the year. So to today's business. I have no problem saying that I think what they wrote today was a mess. I assume that it is allowed to say to at least a newspaper, if not to co-representatives. What we have said and what they have not understood is that tax relief will reduce inflation in the short term, and they can do so in the long term, because we have opportunities to do so on later occasions. Once the companies have had a cost increase, it would have been better in any case if they had not had the cost increase, and that the state that has a very good economy had instead joined with tax relief to avoid it, thereby ensuring the cost increase, and that is still fully possible for the Norwegian State to do. It's not to push problems in front of them at all, it's actually to avoid problems. Today's Business also thinks that all things work the same in the economy, but they don't. We're looking at the content of what we're doing. We've just seen that the indicators that divide us from not going into a tight budget, even using, show that we have the most tight budget. We admit that we don't have, it's the indicators that are wrong, and then you have to stop using these models that just seem like trickery to the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1965	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1968	Exceedances and unpaid bills to an extent of DKK 3.5 billion have made the revision of the State budget more extensive than in the past. I am therefore pleased that the government and the finance committee have managed to maintain the social profile and the tightness of the budget that the Government has focused on. Now, budgetary rigour is not an end in itself, but it is a means of achieving what, for the Workers' Party, is an overall political objective, namely to ensure well-being and a fair distribution by ensuring work for all. It is no more than a decade ago that we all, perhaps especially young families and young people, gained experience of an overheated economy — inflation, high interest rates with subsequent debt crises both for municipalities and individual households and a unemployment that our country had not experienced since the 1930s. High interest rates and increased inflation hit people most, leading to unemployment and inequality. This provided the basis for the Employment Commission and the Solidarity Option, a policy to ensure continued well-being, growth and decline in unemployment, lower interest rates and control of inflation. The solidarity option has produced results that we must not waste by lightly and opportunistically spending more money than our economy allows. Norway's Bank's increase in interest rates must be taken as a serious warning that today there is a strong pressure in our economy. But solidarity and moderation cannot only be required by the vast majority of workers. This year’s strike offered an indignant look at a leadership culture based on myths that large parachutes and astronomical wages are a prerequisite for Norway’s ability to hold on and survive as an industrial nation. It is a paradox that workers’ demands for the reform of continuing training could not be met in wage negotiations – precisely this which should be the parachute of workers, their right and the possibility of being able to change into a changeable working life, but also a reform to ensure the business of workers with the relevant skills. It was therefore necessary for Prime Minister Stoltenberg to intervene in order to start a work that would provide workers with support for living at educational leave. The solidarity option is also based on a notion of fair distribution. The Equalization message and the treatment of it carry a bid that we want to do something about the inequalities, and that we want to raise the minority. The working party and the intermediate parties have largely agreed on important issues here. It is therefore very surprising that we are now recording that through the budgetary procedure, the intermediate parties are seeking and, together with the right-hand side, finding in their proposals to ease the tax on wealth, which goes across a bias. The Workers' Party is committed to using fiscal policy as an instrument for the cohesion of living conditions and as an instrument for a fair burden-sharing. That is why the Government has also announced that it will make such proposals in next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e1983	There are some notable elements in this debate. One of them stood to the extent of Britt Hildeng for now, for she said with obvious horror, the brooding joy, that the center joins with the Right in getting a majority of tax questions. And with the corresponding frenzy, Steensnæs also said the same when it came to the municipal economy and the agricultural settlement, that the government had to go along with the Right to get things done. So they obviously look with the brooding delight to both parties, but the point is that both the center and the Workers' Party must come to the Right to get a majority. It's an interesting feature of today's policy. Now you might not have to spend too much time on the burlesian elements, but Carl I. Hagen really stands for the enjoyable elements of this debate. He stands for an economic policy that is like the old Progress Party, it is moving from one to the next. So now Hagen has found out that he has to vote against the proposal not to implement the free lending scheme for school books, because it's already passed, but he wants to cancel it from the turn of the year. Now, as he once stood for the fight against bureaucracy, he decides that an entire machine should be set in motion to manage 100 million. kr for six months, after which it shall be wound up. I hope that even Hagen sees how hopeless this is, and that perhaps he regrets the relatively cool language he used in relation to Per-Christian Foss. I also have to say that when he uses the argument that one should not change the budget in the middle of the year, it is quite peculiar that Hagen himself puts in not less than 10 billion kroner in mobile concessions – the biggest individual change that has been made – and he does so after the party one week before, on a principle basis, spoke out against doing such things. This is the party of progress at its worst: from one to another. They don't remember what they do from one week to the other. It might be too much to keep him up with this, but it would have been interesting if he had anything to say about it. What he really should say about was what Per-Kristian Foss asked about: is it that the Progress Party now really wants a more expansive policy? I don't ignore the fact that they want it, because now Hagen is surfing that wave that most people don't understand why you can't spend more money, instead of doing what a political leader should do, explaining and showing leadership. Hagen is doing better to surf than he is on leadership, but at least he has to go around explaining why one is now going to have a more expansive economic policy, because if you want it, the Progress Party is a danger to young families with children who are now living, and to the municipalities who are going to pay health costs. That is the reality. You can't just have a good time in politics. So now the bill comes, and that's what Hagen is giving. Otherwise, I have to say that it was also a little peculiar to record how things are going well with the love relationship between the centre and the Workers' Party. I will not spend much more time on it in addition to what I used during a line change. I just want since the center obviously feel that love has become a little too strong, a reminder that from the centre it was so strong that they wouldn't even talk to the Right and the Advance Party about the budget last harvest, they went straight to the Workers' Party and agreed. So this was a relatively mutual relationship. The fact that it has cooled down, now gets to be another side of the matter. I think we now have to take seriously that there are strong pressures in the economy, that go beyond younger families, and that go beyond the municipalities as well. This is because the budget adopted was not well adapted. I wonder a little bit about the Labour Party's strategy in these questions, because the Labour Party has now obviously got more stress by telling the population why you have to hold back. However, they have not had the courage to change the budget so much that they also changed the rate. And as far as I can see, the Workers' Party is now in the process of getting the worst of two worlds: they get the burden of explaining why to hold back, but then they dare not hold back so much that they get any effect from it. So you're going to end up with the increase in interest rate that we've now received. And that's probably the problem, that in politics, it's not that easy to make the necessary hard choices that need to be made. I record that the head of the finance committee perceives his relationship with the center as a sort of persecution ride this fall. It's going to be interesting to see how it goes on. But I think maybe it was optimistic of Hill-Marta Solberg to think that just now we get a good summer behind us, all the things will come into place. There are some hard roofs that need to be taken. We don't get priority health and school well enough if we're not willing to do some real re-priorities. And that's where the political courage always fails.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2004	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2007	In a previous reply, the representative Foss underlined the terrible distribution effect of the increase in interest rates in the Bank of Norway. In fact, I got a strong impression that a fair distribution policy was so important to the Right that even wealth taxation was unfair in relation to distribution, then, of course, with the opposite sign. The right’s contribution to a good distribution policy in the revised national budget is among other things. less money for those who are sick, cut off textbooks for secondary school students, cut off labour market measures and cut off technical aids for those with disabilities. If the Right is so terribly concerned, as they say, with the distribution policy, why are they not really in favour of the interest rate at the Bank of Norway being determined by the politicians, so that they escape the difficult priorities of cutting budgets in areas where money is really needed? Or is it that the Right really wants the sick, the unemployed and the high school students to bear the burden of what is called the Right Distribution Policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2016	I think at the bottom of this debate, we have to put the fact that the level of interest rates is developing, with rising interest rates, it's a poor distribution policy, in the sense that it affects families with children, younger people who have their mortgages, their car loans, their student loans and their kindergartens to pay. No matter how you turn it around and turn it around, it's a bad distribution policy. Then, of course, you can ask the question of why politicians shouldn't go in and control this so you can keep your interest back. Of course, this is because politicians tend to wish for both bag and bag, and this type of system in the long run leads to higher interest rates and, not least, higher inflation. And higher inflation eats up the pay supplements, eats up the paychecks, etc. So all the experience suggests that that's not the way to go. And the Prime Minister himself has answered this question in an interview that we have talked a lot about here, where he makes it quite clear that it is fiscal policy that must take this responsibility. That's what we're saying, but we're drawing, as opposed to the Workers' Party, a real consequence of this. As for who is going to pay, we have to say that it is important to have a balanced budget. We are aware of what we are doing with regard to the sickness pay scheme, and when the Sandman Committee's suspension is available, I do not overlook the fact that this reality will also go up for the Workers' Party. I think one of the reasons we have undercovering important areas like health, school, fighting crime, roads and things like that is that we haven't been willing to go into some of those very expensive and established schemes. Let me conclude by saying that I am very surprised at one thing, namely that Grethe Fossum sees the schoolbook project as a balancing issue. It's very interesting that she does that and does not perceive it from a teaching point of view. But it is also the objection we have had to the Workers' Party's educational policy that they forget the content of the school when they are on the cost side of the teaching chapters.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2029	I've learned that a line is really going to be a question to the speaker you take a line on, but I want to avoid this by just saying that in the case of mobile phones, one of the differences in the Progress Party and the Right is that when we learn something new and understand that we've acted stupidly, we change our action instead of continuing to do what the Right Party and the other parties do. The other social democratic parties and to the extent that conservative parties in Europe have realised that they should not give away a good to capitalists when they can ensure that they have increased revenues for necessary public purposes. We've taken the consequences of that. We'd like to admit that we weren't aware of this for a while, but we learned it from what happened in England. Then I have a question about the local economy. It is the Right Party and the Labour Party that are united on the municipal economy for 2001. The working party did not want to answer if they intend to cover the costs of the last two days of the holiday – NOK 1 billion for the first two coming in 2000. That's what we get for the harvest, because they can't cover it and they're wondering. But next year, the cost of the last two holidays comes another 1 billion. It has not wanted the Workers' Party to answer whether to cover, or whether to use the additional billion that the Workers' Party's large group received to cover it, so that it has in fact been raptured back by the Government. What will the Right do in this area? My third question is the same as I asked Kjell Magne Bondevik: How does the Right Parliamentary Leader and the Right Leader view the prospect that it will be Right who will have to save the budget – an overall budget – together with the Workers' Party for the harvest? Kjell Magne Bondevik, who is a prime minister candidate for the three former government parties, said he was a little optimistic that it would be those parties. Is Jan Petersen optimistic in view of the fact that there will be a Right that needs to be moved to save the budget of the Labour Party for next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2041	I have to admit that I became quite optimistic when Hagen started and said that he did not think it was necessary to ask questions. I had then hoped that he would answer some questions, but he would wisely do so, and I think that's true to say he's going to continue. But when it comes to cell phones, which was obviously what he was after, I think in many ways it was a good answer. If that's how Carl I. Hagen is still open to learning from his stupidities, I don't ignore that we can get a consensus on that too. He is so concerned about how things develop abroad, and since he is busy learning new things, I can now inform him that France has decided to drop its auction. What you need to be aware of is that this is not an area where it is free lunches. It is not that you can pick up 10 billion kroner in the Norwegian market without anyone notices it. Hagen may know that if you add an additional cost of NOK 10 billion to this market, then not insignificant parts of it will find its way to those who are going to pay it. One of the reasons Norway is in the forefront of using new technology is that we have had a price level that makes it comfortable. Now, Hagen is marking himself as an active opponent of innovation and taking on new technology, and it is unfortunately a development we have seen in the Progress Party, that they are becoming less and less concerned with what the New World demands, and more and more concerned with taxing things – and they are doing that here. It's clear that he'll be here a danger of using new technology. As for what is to be covered, I have to say that what is new costs has to be covered in the years in which they are incurred. As regards the budgetary procedure for the autumn, I agree that this is a very inconspicuous and difficult situation. It is not possible to comment on it at the present time, but let me mention that this difficult situation was one of the reasons why I have certainly thought that on the non-socialist side we should talk together, instead of leaving power to Stoltenberg, which Bondevik decided to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2054	The right is actually the biggest central party in the world. Now you've had a central government that for two years made more deals with the Right Party and the Advance Party, they needed the Advance Party to get a majority. Then there was a small intermediate period with the Workers' Party and the Centre. And now the Right has considerable influence again, but this time without the careless Progress Party, because you can form a majority alone with the Workers' Party. It is probably a more pleasant situation politically for the Right than what I really think is evident from political commentators and the press. I would like to hear Jan Petersen's visions of how this picture should be after the next big shot, because it might be a bit tiring just to sit there with his policy, and then either the Workers' Party or the Centre have to swing into the Right. Then you get influence through the pendulum swings, but otherwise you don't have your own, clear opportunity to put on a strategy and get maximum of the credit as well. After all, the right has now had a significant influence on the municipal economy. And the right is a party that says very clearly that you want a greater degree of privatisation in the municipal sector. There are two ways to get such privatisation. One is the right-hand way, to say it very clearly, have an ideological reason for it and do it. But what we notice around in Kommune-Norge is that it's also an effective tactic to get it through the way of neglect, that the municipalities have too bad finances, and that's an argument in itself, that many municipal politicians believe that you get a better economy by privatizing, and so it sneaks into the back door. Does the Right believe that the municipal economy for next year is a good neglecting strategy to get right-wing ideologically justified privatisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2070	The best answer you can give to the last question is: try it well, but it's not quite that easy. The municipal structure that has now been added next year is, of course, within the framework that is. They're to some extent tight, but it still gives, considering the circumstances, that's increasing and improving the framework. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we also pay attention to other things that are important in relation to the local economy, not just the transfers, and this applies, for example. the level of interest. If the interest rate goes up by 1 pst, it'll cost the municipality half a billion dollars. This also applies to the sickness pay scheme, where the Government will now have imposed a greater burden, etc. So I have to say that I believe that the municipal structure that we get for next year is not at all a bad municipal structure. But then Kristin Halvorsen is to some extent involved in a point, namely what she called the neglect strategy. The reality is that the public is now spreading in so many areas that they have for years neglected key parts of the welfare service. There has been a lot of our objection to the Labour Party's budgetary policy that they are spreading in so many areas that not enough is done about the school, and about hospitals. That's why I think it's important to put up a policy for a greater concentration on what's the real core tasks, and then we have to organise ourselves as effectively as we can to create more money for the core tasks. It's also below our commitment to shutting down the county. We need to spend money on services instead of managing each other. Otherwise it's nice to observe the same thing as Kristin Halvorsen, namely that the Right has gradually taken a rather central position in this hall. It's kind of funny, because remember that this four-year period started with all the experts saying that the Right was in a completely hopeless position and was going to be in the shadows' valley all the time. Then it became silent after the budget was settled in 1998. And then we got this spring's events, and then everyone agreed that we were in a hopeless position and in the valley of shadows and would never get any influence. But then we're back again, and we hope that it can lead us into broader civil cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2079	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2082	Although 10 out of 12 committees in the Grand Duchy seem to have too little money and are under pressure from those who are dissatisfied with it, the pressure on the Financial Committee is largely marked by the need to reduce taxes and taxes. If we increase the prices of petrol, as we have experienced in recent months, the Storting will also be blamed for that. But the reality is that in the last year, the Storting that has been paying a fee increase of only 9 cents and in the last three years totaling 23 cents. During the same period, the oil companies' price increase has been about NOK 3 litres. Diesel prices have mainly received attention related to an estimated 46-piece increase from the turn of the year and large demonstrations from other carriers and businesses. Today we can record that the reactions became a wake-up call, because the majority of the Storting went too far when they gave the Bondevik government's proposals in this context their support. The real diesel charge was increased by 3.7 pst. The government now proposes that the fee be reversed to 1999 level. In addition, we note that the temporary sulphur tax of 25 øre should not have been charged to the diesel buyers; the environmental diesel is already in place. The challenge now is to put in place a system that ensures that only environmental diesel is on the pumps as quickly as possible, either by law, from 2001, or by an agreement with oil companies on labelling if the legislative path does not go. The environmental diesel does not provide a better environment until the particulate filter can also be installed. It requires a guarantee of diesel quality. With regard to the level of fuel taxes in the future, I assume that the Government carefully assesses this in relation to the border trade problem, in the 2001 budget. For a year we have now been waiting for the majority decision on the removal of investment taxes on hydropower plants. A 7 pst fee bill. would provide the basis for the necessary upgrading and efficiency of our hydroelectric power plants, but also for ensuring, where possible, the fastest possible deployment of new power plants with the necessary additional costs imposed by current environmental requirements. In addition to the fact that a number of projects have stopped pending a non-refundable tax exemption, the central government's training of the Storting decision has led to the loss of hundreds of additional jobs in the supply industry in Norway. Now that the Labour Party Government has quickly promoted the proposal for an exemption, it is revealing to record the restrictions on the proposals of the Centre Parties now. No exemption from new projects shall be the key to re-suspension with the implementation of the Great Britain majority concession in Upper Otta. This is a bad welcome to the necessary reduction in the growth of the highly polluting energy imports we are now seeing. So, finally, an attempt to clarify the comment from the centre parties and SV and the comment from the Progress Party, the Right and the representative of Bastisen, on page 155 of the suspension, regarding the ferry offer. As far as I can read, the centre parties and SV go for a strengthening of the ferry offer, not a reduction in fares by going against a reduction in the subsidy of 35 million. kr. This is also the view of the Labour Party, and therefore – in that case – the view of the majority. If this is not correct, I'm asking for a correction from the center and SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2097	During the day, and naturally because it is part of the revised national budget, there has been some discussion of the labour market measures and their sizes. We have major challenges in labour market policy in the years to come. And what we see in the fact that a total rise in the cohesion message is that the labour market and labour market policy are actually facing huge challenges in the years to come, by ensuring that we are able to qualify between 40,000 and 50,000 in Norwegian working life, which are currently out of permanent work, so that they can enter and exploit their skills in such a way that they get paid work. It will be difficult to cope with the challenges that the Storting has asked us to do, while cutting the instruments we have through labour market measures. That is why I am pleased that it has been possible to establish a large majority for the continuation of the level of labour market measures, as well as that we have been given a new look at the scheme set up by the Government in connection with further efforts for those who have as an alternative to going on disability pensions. I look forward to that exercise with excitement, and that's going to be a challenge. However, I am a little concerned that we should not be able to get the debate over to another stage before the budgetary procedure for the autumn – because it has now been ensured by the decision of the Progress Party that we should not change the budget, not by the fact that the Progress Party is being opened up to focus on labour market measures. That's why I hope, especially for the centre parties, that there has been the need to find money coverage that has been the reason for the cut-offs that you've made this year. Otherwise, I have to say that there is no reason to put off efforts in relation to the difficulties of the oil-related industry. There too, we have major challenges, in particular in raising skills. There will be a number of companies that will have both short-term and long-term problems in employing their employees, and as the Stortinge in and on their own, we would have to use these additional means of action and the action places for a combination of skills-raising activities and labour market measures, which would ensure that they were ready to enter the job again in this business when the crisis was over. There will also be a significant need in the second half of the year to use these resources. Then I have registered that the Stortinget in connection with the treatment of the revised assumes that the conversion of labour market policy is to be implemented by allowing private rental from 1 July, as previously provided, even if the Stortinget has not received the feedback from the Government on how to organise the state company. Instead, we have received a proposal to give the Government a time-limited authority to carry out these activities also within the territory of the labour market parliament and give feedback to the Stortinge on how this will be organised in the future, in the context of the budget. I'm glad. This enables us to qualify the labour market seat to be involved in the challenging process of the liberalisation of labour market policy adopted by the Stortinget and which I believe should actually contribute to achieving an even greater degree of mobility and quality in the part of the labour market that we need in the years to come. But I ask the Stortinge to be aware that, although in some professional areas we have a great need to provide skilled labour, we also have a very large group that is currently outside the ordinary labour market, and one has to make considerable efforts to ensure that they will be able to use their skills and resources in an active working life in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2114	In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that, after the treatment in Stortinget, the revision will have a stronger central profile than the one set up by the Government. For example, voluntary teams and organisations will be given better conditions by changing the requirement to join the non-taxable gift scheme from having ‘at least 3000 members’ to ‘national scale organisations’. Here I have to admit that ‘national scale’ does not mean activity in all states, but it means that the organisation must have an activity beyond the pure locality. The rule was not set for such a change. For this reason, it is particularly gratifying that a group of financial committees now propose a change, a change which may initially seem rather small, but which in reality means that an organisation meets according to the reality that characterises the organisation-Noreg. It is easy for a good number of voluntary teams and organisations to be team-based without a central membership register. Other organisations are quite small; others cannot base their actions on members. All of these would fall out of the tax-free gift scheme if the requirement was 3,000 members. By changing the requirement for the organisation to have a ‘national scope’, many of these organisations, which are important and which at times carry out a non-replaceable work, will be included in the scheme. This is entirely in line with the very intention of the tax-free gift scheme for voluntary teams and organisations. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government will not be able to implement the system of reimbursement for seafarers or the proposal to increase the CO2 charge for the freight fleet and for the supply chain. If the government's proposals at these two points had been agreed, it would have meant the end of the freight fleet along the coast. This is an important industry which represents many jobs, but which is also a good, important and rational provision of transport. If this offer disappears, the option will be land-based transport, an option that will not least lead to greater environmental and impor tant consequences. By drifting back these two changes from the Government, the Storting also shows that we want stable and sustainable conditions for the entire maritime industry. This is also why the Christian People's Party will support Inger Stolt-Nielsen's proposal that has been distributed today. We experience time and time again that the Workers' Party makes proposals or in other ways expresses documents which are capable of creating uncertainties and which are non-proprietary to the shipping industry. Although Stolt-Nielsen's proposal is not very precise, we will vote for the proposal on the grounds that the shipping industry should have a safe, stable and sustainable framework and that it is important to take care of different branches within the industry. On 1 January of this year, 14 municipalities received an increase in employer charges as a result of EFTA directives. Nine of these municipalities are in Hordaland, two are in Rogaland, two are in More and Romesdal, and one is in Telemark. The tax surcharge brings with it an increase of 134 million. kr per. years of business in these 14 municipalities. In addition, competitive disadvantages such as poor roads, ferrying costs and tolling costs come. In the Christian People's Party, we have worked hard to compensate for these extra costs, and so the Centre Party, together with the Labour Party, gave strong leadership in the 2000 budget that the Government had to come back in revision with compensatory measures in the form of funds for infrastructure, empowerment and regional development in these municipalities. The Christian People's Party is, therefore, very pleased that there is now a majority in the Financial Committee which is converging on strong and clear leadership as a requirement for the Government to obtain full coverage for the business sector of its additional expenditure from the financial year 2001 until the revision of the zoning for the employer's fee in 2003. In the Christian People's Party, we are reasonably pleased to have contributed to the revision of the report getting a clearer and stronger central profile than the one mentioned in the proposal from the Government. We have done this without the budget being less tight – rather on the contrary!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2131	Like most others, I've been a politician because I want to influence social development. For us in the Labour Party, the goal is to influence so that life is better for people most, especially for those who have it most difficult. Does this mean that you are going to do something about it? Yes, the most important thing today is that the level of labour supply is kept up. We know that the most important differences between those who have enough, and those who have too little, in this country are between those who have work and those who do not. Hence, work is at all the most decisive for smoothing. For those who are not at work – for those who have left the oil industry and for those who have physical and mental problems that are difficult to find work – labour market measures are decisive to move forward. The welder who has been weldered may increase competence by obtaining several certificates or by building on them with theoretical or practical training. The person with reduced mobility can qualify through training and various support schemes and demonstrate that he can play an active role in working life. These two and their families then get a better life, they actively participate in the creation of value, and they work for themselves economically. It is quite incomprehensible to me that people from the centre party – perhaps most of them from the Center Party – who have been so high on the track in connection with the Equalization message, voice to reduce the number of workplaces monthly. I hope that the dismissed welder in Haugesund and the job-seeking immigrant notice this. There is a relatively small distance between the centre and the Labour Party in the decisions we are making today. It's not that the center makes important, other grips that lift those who need it the most. "Soft shrieks and little wool" is what we call it on Iron. In the fall, we face more extensive challenges when it comes to redistribution — to take from the rich to have more to the poor and to important common good. I'm really excited about what the center does. Renewal of the public sector will be an exaggerating and demanding work. Renewal is not a goal in itself, but a tool to ensure that we use the money and the people we have for the most possible and best possible services for people. The Labour Party will secure a strong public sector and equivalent supply of poor and rich across the country. The Labour Party, as Prime Minister Stoltenberg has said several times in the past, will increase the efforts in the public sector – in kindergartens, in child protection, in school and in culture, to name one of the most important things in my heart. But we're going to use the resources we have in a better way. It requires a framework and legislation that gives as much time as possible to treat the sick, to get people to work and to borrow books. It is this framework and legislation that the Government and the Kosmo State Council shall have a critical review of, as well as issues relating to the organisation of the public sector. I know a lot of people working in the public sector. Many of them are frustrated because they can't spend more time and resources on the most important things, such as caring for old or teaching children and young people. They're writing plans, they're writing reports, they're meeting. Some of this is important, which costs a lot more than it tastes. We have to do something about that. A good dwelling is, in addition to work, decisive for people's well-being. Therefore, I am pleased that the Minister of State is working on measures for our children, and especially for those without housing and others with special needs. Fascination is also about security for good growth and education conditions for our children and young people. Therefore, we need to spend more resources on kindergartens, on education and on cultural activities in the future, as the Labour Party calls for. I'm impressed by all the efforts people make for a wide-ranging culture for children and young people in all local settings. Without this effort Norway stops. In addition to this effort, and almost a commitment to this effort, there is an active cultural life at all levels. We need to bet on e.g. Stavanger Symphony Orchestra because they provide many of us with musical experiences that increase the joy of life because they stimulate music interest in general because they are important players in the education of new musicians because many of the participants as conductors, teachers and practitioners at all levels of the state and thus ensure both recruitment and wide-ranging culture The same reasoning could be used for the Norwegian Opera. "Man doesn't live by bread alone," it's called. We need bread, but in addition, we need the experiences and developments that cultural life offers us – whether it's commitment as a mother to school, as a leader in the well-being team, or as an opera audience. Therefore, I am very pleased that at least the Prime Minister and the Labour Party have seen culture on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2170	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2173	Let me first express joy over Ausdal Starrfelt's description of the meaning of Stavanger Symphony Orchestra. It allows us to have a majority for the proposals on which the Right stood alone in connection with the cultural budget last year. But that's not why I asked for the word. This applies to seafarers. In the interpellation debate on maritime industries on 2 May, Grete Knudsen gave signals that the government of Stoltenberg would secure all parts of the food cluster competitive framework. She said, ‘We want to have framework conditions that are as stable as possible over time and with which businesses can live in both good and bad times.Our national measures must be maintained within the framework of EU legislation, to which we are bound by the EEA Agreement.’ If the reimbursement aid were granted, she said that it was one of the questions she would be discussing with the council she had intended to appoint, which would be composed of all parts of the maritime environment. But she had obviously not managed this with her own government finance minister and prime minister. Such an advisory group has not yet been appointed, and the Government proposed to wind up the reimbursement aid instead of raising it, as we discussed on 2 May. They proposed winding-up without discussing or proposing other measures to ensure recruitment, training and safe workplaces for the rootstock of Norwegian seafarers on which the entire maritime cluster is dependent. This sent shock waves into the maritime environment, and the effect was not lacking. A comprehensive deflagration of jobs has been notified and recommended that the number of training places should be reduced by 300 in the first place. Many have thought that I have painted the damn thing on the wall when I have pointed out the adverse effects of a winged shipping policy on the industry. Well, the hell is no longer on the wall, but is loose in the maritime environment and celebrates hundreds of jobs. When the Storting decided to expand the state's guarantee liability by 360 million just under 14 days ago in the event of changes in the law of the seafarer's pension scheme. NOK – I am very pleased that it was joined by a unanimous increase – was the preliminary figure for the calculation of the state guarantee liability that the number of paying seafarers would be stable and fairly constant between 27 000 and 28 000. That's where we are today. The next few years will be a natural take-off of 1700 per. years. If the annual access is less than the annual take-off, the guarantee liability of the State will increase. With the flag that has been realised and announced, the take-off can be considerably greater than 1700 per. years. The proposal we are promoting from the Right today is a very open proposal, which gives the Government the opportunity to do a thorough investigation on the basis of decisions to be taken in the autumn, when we are to adopt next year's budget. That's actually what the Minister of Industry himself wanted to find out, the conditions of the industry's competition. We expect the government to do this basic work, so that we have a decision-making basis when we get to the harvest. This industry cannot wait another six months in uncertainty. They must now have a date for the availability of a decision base. I am very pleased that the centre parties and the Progress Party have notified support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2198	The majority of the population, consisting of the Workers' Party and the Centre Parties, proposes to increase the sulphur tax by 100 pst. from 1 July of this year. This is a fee increase that affects a number of ferro-alloy and carbid works hard. These companies compete on an international market and, of course, depend on having conditions of competition as much as possible similar to those of their non-resident competitors, who do not have such a charge. In the press issue relating to the revised state budget, the Minister for Finance said: ‘Taxes and charges in Norway are already high in international terms and there is a strong pressure to reduce them due to competitive disadvantages and increasing trade leakage.’ I fully agree with that. But then it is completely incomprehensible to me that the Minister of Finance increases the sulphur tax by 100 p.m., and that in the revised state budget, without any impact assessments of the increase in fees in advance. As an example, I will refer to Finnfjord Melting Plant, which today pays 4 million. NOK in the sulphur tax to the country, which amounts to something between NOK 35000 and NOK 40000 per year. employed. The increase from 4 to 8 million. NOK 35 000 to NOK 70 000. per 1 % workplace is most dramatic for Finnfjord Melting Plant, and there may be the difference between life and death for the enterprise. Current SO2 emissions are significantly below the limit of the current sulphur protocol, so that no new measures are needed in the near future. Under the Gothenburg Protocol, SO2 emissions are to be reduced to 22 000 tonnes in 2010. In other words, it is time to prepare new measures to meet the new emission targets. Industry is ready to implement measures contributing to the achievement of its objectives. The use of voluntary mechanisms to cope with emissions obligations has already been proposed by the process industry. By means of voluntary schemes, industry may pay to implement the long-distance emission reductions sufficient to meet the new obligation of the Gothenburg Protocol. This can be done at a much lower cost than using charges. The proceeds of a charge of DKK 6 could finance sewage treatment plants in two years, which together would meet the objectives of the Gothenburg Protocol. Today's tax and a doubling of today's tax give no environmental benefit at all, but have only one purpose, namely to increase the flow of money into the treasury. There is also an unacceptable deterioration in the competitiveness of industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2216	I should have liked to have Kosmo State Council present in the Chamber to get answers to some questions related to a proposal put out in the Chamber, from Dag Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. For in my view, this proposal represents a serious breach of what has previously been the policy in this area and which the Kosmo Council itself has addressed. In the worst case, this proposal could lead to a violation of Norwegian law, at least in relation to the assessments given when dealing with Ot.prp. No 70 before Christmas, the law on changes in the renting of labour. In this context, distinct competitive assessments were made by the Christian People’s Party-led government related to payment services in the labour market seat, stressing that in order to be sure that it would not be contrary to EEA law, it was important that these payment services were organised in a limited liability company and kept at arm’s length from the other activity in the A budget. The proposal that is now on the table means that it is no longer being done. That proposal involves the introduction of payment services without arm's length, and without certainty of proper pricing, which is clearly a breach of all the premises of the Council of State Davøy on which its proposal was based. It's quite shocking to me. I see that the proposal has been submitted at 1 p.m. 01.25 a.m., and that it is possible that he did not remember what was said by the Council of State at that time. At least it amazes me. This opens up more confusion and competition problems in the labour market. The second part, which was also in the same position, was that in order to hire labour under the law of the labour market, it had to be organised in a company that could have employees who did not necessarily come under the law of civil servants. If, as is stated in this proposal, you have to introduce labour hire without having organized it as a corporation, and intend to do it in the same way as the temporary employment agencies, i.e. the employment and employer responsibility are the A-etatens and not those to whom you are renting out – and there is no problem, because this is how the A-etatens today are allowed to do – you are likely to break, according to what the Christian People's Party-led government said, the law and the premises that apply to the law on civil servants. I think either Dag Terje Andersen should come and explain why the conditions on which it was based suddenly no longer exist, or that someone from the Christian People's Party can explain this proposal. For here we make messy rules in relation to competition law, as well as that it can break Norwegian law. I think it requires an answer. And I would also like to have an answer from the Workers' Party on whether what is here means that there will not be a big message about the temporary agency, which the Kosmo Council has announced will arrive on 23 June.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2225	In a labour shortage situation, adding more money to the economy will not lead to more work being done, but instead to a strange price rise and higher interest rates. There has actually been quite a broad consensus here today, even though not everyone delivers relative to achieving such a result, i.e. a lower price increase. The latest OECD report has also found that the Norwegian economy is at the boiling point, and if there are no restrictions now, higher interest rates will be applied. The reason why I'm repeating this is because a party has separated at this point. The progress party has spent a lot of time and effort here today to produce it as if we have no problem with the Norwegian economy being about to boil over. Only by making some tax cuts will inflation go down, you say. There are many good reasons for tax relief, but in a situation where it is about to boil into the Norwegian economy and there is a shortage of labour, it is not such that the pressure in the Norwegian economy is dampened by lowering taxes. On the contrary, it may in fact be that some will get more between their hands, so that an increased demand can be started and, in turn, contribute to a higher price increase in Norway, because there is more money at their disposal. That's at least one way to think about it. What really made me jump in the chair was when the representative Siv Jensen said in an answer to a reply from me: ‘But now let it also be said that it is not certain that the most appropriate and best thing for the Norwegian economy is now going to be to conduct a contractive policy’ — that is, a tight one — ‘financial policy. Perhaps we should begin to pursue an expansionary fiscal policy, precisely because we are now seeing signs of a sharp increase in unemployment." It was a real situational description. Clearly, if that is what has been the starting point of the revised national budget of the Progress Party, it is no wonder that the result has become quite original. The Progress Party attacks the budgetary indicators and says that the Progress Party comes out with an improved balance with the other parties. Nor is it strange when you decide to auction mobile concessions at night to DKK 10 billion and bring the amount of the auction right into your revised national budget, while saying that you are against making even small adjustments to the revised national budget, because you have to follow what has been the model of the new budgetary system. But 10 billion dollars into a system to finance expenditure increases, which are twice as high as SV itself suggests, are the policies of the Progress Party. I wonder if we could get an answer from Carl I. Hagen on whether this is the line of the Progress Party, that a more expansive policy should be pursued to prevent the sharp increase in unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2239	I shall note that the Centre Party and the Left shall be included in a comment on the Aviation Administration on page 160 of this setting. I ask the Minister of Finance to clarify a matter that the Labour Party openly makes very misleading. This applies to the volume of labour market measures. In a line change in the crossover message, the Prime Minister owed me and the Central Party for a cut in the labour market seat in the revised national budget. He said it would go out on the weakest, not least immigrants. He warns of the sudden stoppage of labour market measures if the proposal we are in favour of is agreed. The Labour Party repeats its attacks in the debate today, and they argue in the vote on page 213 that action sites in the engineering industry must be prioritised at the expense of others. One of the Workers' Party's own spokesmen, Marit Myklebust, spokesperson in Eigersund, a municipality with the yard industry, has an article on 14 June in Stavanger Aftenblad, where she for the first time tells how the municipalities are already renewing the public sector as the prime minister announced that he would start, and where she addresses the searchlight on the state budgets. So tell her about the situation in the yard industry that was in Rogaland a short time ago, and about the need for an extraordinary package, which was released in connection with the budget for this year, 357 million. kr, which was to be administered by the Directorate of Labour and County Labour Offices. Fortunately, the crisis was not as extensive as warning, and now there is optimism to trace. So tell Marit Myklebust that the labour market sits ‘with a lot of money, a lot of money, so much money that the County Labour Office goes out and begs companies for projects so that the money can be spent, and they must be spent before the year is over!’ It seems to me that these funds have to go back to the state to be used for higher priority purposes. Then she says, ‘This can be a test stone for our government. They must show that the public can act quickly and smoothly and sensibly. Several hundred million must not disappear in a system.’ That's exactly what's the point of that 150-million cut proposal. kr that is today. It is that the funds allowed for measures that did not require so much resources should be withdrawn in order to be used for higher priority purposes. I ask the Minister of Finance to confirm that this will be looked at more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2260	I open my post by presenting proposal No. 66, which is distributed at the representatives' table, where I ask the government to scrape the construction of a new opera house in Bjørvika. Actually, the proposal does not need any further comments or arguments from my side, because I think most of the representatives from the Labour Party and most of the representatives from the Right today have argued so strongly for the proposal that I see it as quite natural that today there is a massive majority. Throughout the debate, both the Right and the Labour Party discussed tightening, budgetary balance, pressures in the economy, fear of inflation, price rise, etc. If it results in correctness, and if the two parties are so afraid of that development in the future, they really have to support that proposal. Then those parties can't help trigger billions to build an opera house in Bjørvika. So I look forward to that voting. Otherwise, I think what comes out from the various representatives from the Workers' Party is a little interesting. The representative of Ausdal Starrfelt said that they look forward to the harvest, because then they will take from the rich and give to the poor. It was also said by other representatives. I also look forward to the harvest, when the Workers' Party will take from the rich and give to the poor, because we have had a whole series of things in the spring session for which the Workers' Party has obtained a majority, which will trigger several hundred million more – I mention only briefly – new kindergartens, museums, archives, libraries, probably several hundred million to new opera buildings, several hundred million in increased pensions for state employees, etc., etc. And then the same parties are standing here today trying to express that they are afraid of the future in relation to the tightness of public spending. I also look forward to the harvest settlement. It is clear that in relation to proposal No. 66 I have also noticed what is happening. I'm just going to mention one point: there's a cut of 760 million. kr on equipment for hospitals, because one cannot afford it. At the same time, a willing in all sorts of ways is using billions of dollars to build an opera house in Bjørvika. I've noticed it, and I think most people have noticed it. And I think that's what we're going to read through the polls that we get in the press every now and then.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2271	Per Sandberg has taken up the suggestion he has referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2274	I am afraid the Progress Party has misunderstood something completely fundamental in economic policy. Of course, it is possible to give priority to both the construction of new opera and other good purposes if they are carried out within a sound financial whole. The problem with the arrangement of the Progress Party is that they do not control the overall use of money, and then it goes wrong – completely wrong. The representative of Meltweit Kleppa asked questions about the labour market measures. The situation is that with the arrangements put forward by the centre parties, the number of places in the labour market measures would be reduced by 3000 in the second half of the year. There will be a reinforced effect in the last quarter due to bonds in the third quarter. In short, it means that long-term unemployed, groups that are weak in the labour market, immigrants, etc., will be affected by such an increase, and in a rather dramatic way. So to the proposal of Inger Stolt-Nielsen on behalf of the Right. Norwegian shipping is an industry of fierce competition. This applies not only to the international part, but also to a large extent to coastal shipping. International shipping has been using labour from countries with low labour costs for many years, and we now see trends in increased flagging also in small-scale fleets and increased use of foreign seafarers in coastal transport. Maritime transport is an important part of the infrastructure for coastal communities, where maritime transport is also a dominant mode of transport for Norwegian goods exports. We know that with modern ships, CO2 emissions from maritime transport are much lower than in road transport. This includes, inter alia: the background to the EU’s commitment to increased use of short sea shipping and combined transport. The government is aware that Norwegian shipping is facing major challenges. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is therefore examining the situation of shipping more closely, both international shipping and coastal fleets. In this context, we will also assess the framework conditions in relation to our competitors. In this context, it is important to establish that the framework conditions vary considerably within the EU and the EEA. We will also look at how we can increase the level of innovation and innovation in the industry so that competitiveness can be maintained in the long term. As the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade has previously said here in Stortinget, she will set up as soon as possible an advisory group for the maritime cluster environment from the education, research and technology environments. So the representative here, Stolt-Nielsen, is a work that the Ministry of Industry and Trade, on behalf of the Government, is doing, and with which you will come back to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2289	The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has made a proposal that the Government be empowered to carry out a partial privatisation of AS Olivin with the intention of reducing its ownership down to 51 pst. in the company. In parallel, the Financial Committee has examined a Document No. 8 proposals from the Progress Party, which goes far beyond this, because it involves full government liquidation of the entire ownership of the business. The parties to the centre support the government's maximum sale limit. The Progress Party and the Right are the only parties in favour of total privatisation. We believe that the State should not have the task of being a major shareholder in speculative business but of leaving business as soon as possible. We do not believe it should be a public task to preserve the values of ordinary citizens in this way. The activities that are life-creating should include private care. Although Olivin has not seized much time from the central government or had the major need for capital injection, we believe that the form of public limited liability can be a barrier to the development opportunities and market adaptations of companies. With the majority of private owners and investors, there will be greater opportunities to be ahead of development and to be as professional as possible to increase the potential for profit. Keywords will include employing skilled commercial managers in peak positions, tight cost control and increased productivity emphasis. It is well known that Olivin has been an economic success. However, although the company is strong, it depends on market conditions in the steel industry. Increasing production capacity of competing olive producers may increase competition for prices and market shares in the coming years. By releasing private owners, the company can improve its competitiveness through coordination gains in areas such as marketing, logistics and technical competence. Joint raising for product development, research and alternative applications may provide new opportunities. I have little faith that the government's model of continued state ownership will mean an equally active ownership and driving role for the development, internationalisation and efficiency of the business that a private majority will do. By means of a limited sale, private individuals allocated to minority shareholdings would be more likely to regard this as financial investment than would otherwise have been. It should also be included as a sales argument that private ownership through full privatisation means reduced public interference. It can help prevent Storting from dealing with many industrial matters. The political parties in this room will be given more time to general industrial policy issues, and it will be preferable, as we see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2300	I addressed in my main article the issue of the proposal for the implementation of the adopted legislative changes on the rental of labour and private employment services. But I have understood that some representatives do not think the comments I had in my main post were sufficient, and have asked me to make further comments. It is then that the majority of the Storting provided that, at the time of entry into force, the State would have established its own establishment which would also be able to hire out labour, and the Stortinget also decided that it could be required to pay for services provided by the A budget in and on its own. This is within a limited area, where the Storting has been quite precise in its decisions. This means that the provision of labour remains free of charge and does not cost the individual worker anything in the future. The size also meant that one should return to the Stortinget with information on how this business should be organised. It has not been possible to do so within the deadline, which was set at 1 July 2000. I understand that Stortinget says that it is not good enough, but I want the entry into force to take place on 1 July. And then the proposal mentioned, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, is organised in such a way that for a limited period of time, the labour market parliament is given the opportunity to establish these services, and then we have to explain to the Stortinget how this has been organised in the context of the 2001 budget proposal. At that time, the Stortinge will decide whether the organisation chosen is good enough, and then it will be possible to decide that this should be final and, where appropriate, to remove the time limit laid down in this Decision. For me, this is a reasonable way to do this. This means that we will be able to qualify and upgrade the A-rate to do this job, while at the same time implementing the legislative changes adopted from 1 July 2000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2314	For SV, it is important that the money we use is used correctly. It cannot be that the main thing is only that budgetary policy is tight, it must also be correct. And then it is important that they are cut to cut, if you have to cut, also have a political justification. In oral Question Time on May 31st this year, I had a reply with the Minister of Finance, saying that the individual cuts on revised did not have a strong political justification, and that each cut in revised was not a signal of any political change – then maybe I can put it out like that: neither was there any political direction for this government. The Minister of Finance also repeats today that you come to Stortinget with the revision, and then you have someone cut and then you see how it goes. It's very little in line with the rather powerful play the Minister of Finance had when he went to the pulpit today and said that the Workers' Party will ensure you work, fair distribution and secure the public sector. Then you have to set up the money you have so that you can achieve these goals. I think you have an explanation problem when you say that the cuts you've reviewed have come more or less in random places, and that you're willing to look at almost everything. So it can't be like that. One area that SV had a strong desire to strengthen in this revision was the housing sector. After the treatment of the defrosting message, the Prime Minister was interviewed in Dagsrevyen, and he said that the government's policy in this area was to build so many dwellings that the price of both rent and ownership went down. And I must say that is a very ambitious goal. Anyone who has some care about supply and demand in a market knows that if you're going to build so many cheap homes that the price level goes down, it has to be built enormously. When SV suggests 150 million. kr more on the housing allowance – because that’s what it takes if you’re going to start this – is not part of the government’s plan. And then I wonder, when are we going to start, and what is the level of ambition of the Government in housing policy? Because it's not that cheap dwellings come down from heaven. They must either be built or be purchased. And you don't get to do that without money. I could imagine asking the Minister of Finance, with whom I also expect to have a word in the team when you're going to distribute, if there's going to be any money for housing bets in the future. How is the Minister of Finance going to meet the Prime Minister's promise of a housing effort so large that the price of both rent and ownership goes down?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2328	I listened to the statements of the Kosmos State Council. In my post, which Kosmo then did not hear, I addressed three specific issues related to elements contained in this proposal, which, according to my concepts, clearly contradicted the presentation by the then government of how payment services and temporary employment had to be organised in order to avoid conflict with competition law and other laws, such as those of the Federal Republic of Germany. Law on civil servants. Firstly, I now see that the Council of State indirectly says that on 23 June – as has been announced in the media – he no longer has the intention to present a communication on the establishment of a government agency for temporary employment. I would like to have a clear yes or no on that. The second part I'm wondering about is: is it that suddenly there's no longer a problem with hiring out the labour force in charge of the labour market seat in line with the temporary employment agencies, that is, that the employer's responsibility remains in the A-etat, which is the big difference between what they do today, and what they will do in the future, no longer leads to the need to change the law on civil servants? It was presented to the Stortinget last fall, that then you had to change the law on civil servants so that you wouldn't get into this law if you were in that kind of relationship. The third is: is it that the entire investigation carried out by the Competition Authority of payment services under the auspices of the Labour Market Act and the establishment of a temporary agency, which just said that there was a need for payment services to be organised through a limited liability company, that they had the right pricing and distance, no longer applies, in order to avoid conflict with the EEA legislation and, if necessary, to have problems with ESA? Is it so that all these important technical conditions that were set for how this was to be organized, which the Stortinget worked on last autumn, have suddenly disappeared during the night? I then wonder a little about the preparatory work done by the government of Bondevik, for this was an important framework for how to do it. As I see that the labour market movement, in part, is positioning itself in relation to new competition, I think it would have been very important that before you got started with payment services, you had really gone through the way in which pricing and competition were compared to others, and how you could ensure that you were not accused of indirect subsidising between the free services and what you charge for. You have to enter here, according to the majority, and be an active competitor in a market where there are already many private operators. I think it's registered something like 181 different temporary employment agencies. It's an actively competing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2339	I will register an entry from the representative of the Party of Advancement. Sandberg to stop the project new opera. Let me just remind you, sir. Sandberg about what, sir. Hagen has recently said in a speech that, in the context of the treatment of the revised national budget, we are not taking any rematches. I thought there was an opinion on behalf of the party, but I am now somewhat more uncertain. In his main speech earlier today, the Minister of Finance said: «The government will return to the government budget for 2001 with an assessment of changes in taxes on wealth, including the issue of exemptions from working capital.» This is not a follow-up to what the majority of the Storting will adopt. The majority of the population is likely to adopt XLVI on the basis of the vote: ‘The size asks the Government of the 2001 budget proposal to propose exemptions from taxes on wealth for economic assets’. There are two differences. One is that we do not ask for an investigation, Stortinget asks for a proposal. The second is that the term ‘economic assets’ is a somewhat more liberal concept than the term ‘working capital’. We are not honoured with the Prime Minister's presence during this debate. Yes, in fact, I think the Prime Minister must have read the newspaper today where it says that ‘Jens Stoltenberg is skin braided to talk only about budgetary discipline and the temperature of the economy’. This should be an internal party criticism. I was actually thought that the Stortinget was taken so seriously that the Prime Minister at least took part in the debate on the revised national budget. It has been common in recent years with the changing prime ministers we have had, but I record that this is not the case now. Let me therefore ask the Prime Minister, whom I expect the Minister of Finance to be able to answer, whether it is such that the Government will follow up the majority decision of the Stortingen to submit proposals for exemptions from taxes on wealth in respect of economic assets. I'm going to point out that there are many ways to define nutrient assets, but it is also possible to put forward a proposal in different alternatives, with a broader, narrower or a medium narrow concept in relation to nutrients. As we know, there are some divisions here between the center parts, which make it possible to have different opinions about it. But the essence of women is that it's a business, and that it's a proposal you're asking for, not an investigation or an evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2363	First to the representative Foss" attempts to create disagreement between Carl I. Hagen and Per Sandberg when it came to proposals for opera. It is quite right that we have a line on not taking rematches, but the proposal to scrape the construction of the opera concerns the simple fact that in the last few days there has been a lot of evidence to suggest that the budgets that are already in place for the construction of the new opera will crack. And so that's a whole new assumption in relation to what the Biggest has already decided. The reason I took the floor is that the representative Børge Burnde did not long ago bring forward significant indignation, and it was primarily directed at me. I do not want the representative Burnde to take a summer holiday with so much discomfort in his stomach, so I think it would be good to correct a little of the anxiety he has. I think it's important when we're going to discuss economic policy, trying to look a little bit at how economic theory is structured. Until now, the majority of Norwegian economic political debate has been based on demand-sided economic thinking – dominated by Keynesian economic theory. In fact, it may be more right for Norway to begin to focus on the supply side of the economy to a much greater extent than has been done so far. We see that those trends are gradually increasing elsewhere in the world, precisely because the old economic theories seem to fail. And then at least I think it makes sense to consider another economic device, another economic emphasis, precisely because the parameters and measurement tools we've used up to today don't work as well as they have done. And precisely because this isn't necessarily an exact science at all times, at least I think that everyone who participates in the debate on this should be open to considering new devices, because there are just a lot of signs that indicate that we lack a greater focus on the supply side of the Norwegian economy, and that might be why we also get some crazy predictions from what is actually the reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2370	The centre party will support a level of labour market measures that will make it possible to get the most access to work, but also the means and way in which the allocation is organised must be carefully assessed at any given time. I got an answer from the Minister of Finance to my question. But when it is, fortunately, it's not needed for all of the 357 million. In addition, some parties agree to reduce labour market measures by less than half, and the Minister of Finance makes it so that the measures to be taken here must be passed on at the expense of others, at least to ensure that there is a high potential for greater flexibility than in the A budget today. So the government has warned to step up efforts to treat drug users. It's the Center Party. But then it seems pretty self-containing that the first government then comes with a signal after that, is pulling in 6 million. Precisely for the treatment of drug users who were not used last year and who could have been used to strengthen their efforts in the second half of the year. In this mode, a tool can be used for long periods of time. Then I will finally give the Minister of Finance an encouragement. I expect that he will now have a lot of concerns and thoughts in relation to the different tax proposals and signals given by different parties in the Stortinget. Then I would like him to read the comments in the dithering message. There he will find out that he can combine the proposal he is about to make, on the exemption from taxes on working capital, with the imposition of taxes on dividends. It also gives a nice combination in relation to distribution, and he will see that if the Labour Party agrees, they will have multiples in next year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2381	What the representative Kleppa has now concluded with is essentially a very central point. Thus, in addition to the table in the Financial Committee's proceedings, the central parties have ordered the Government to provide relief in the wealth tax of DKK 2.5 billion, a fundamental unfair and unsocial proposal in view of many of the other tax measures that could have been imposed, which had helped to make up for differences and not strengthen them. But the government is free to make other proposals that can counteract a relief in the taxes on wealth for working capital. What has happened in the last year is that there has been an increasing movement towards the fact that more people see the obvious fair and correct thing about taxing dividends. In many respects, Norway is a special case in which we do not have a tax on dividends. In the Nordic region, only Finland, together with Norway, does not have a tax on dividends on shares, and in the OECD area only two other countries do not have a tax on dividends on shares. So Norway is in a minority within the OECD. The reason for this is, of course, that tax on dividends is seen as a fair form of taxation, as well as, of course, drawing important money into the treasury that can go to the common consumption. What has happened over the last few years is that the Centre Party has now also made sense and believes that tax on dividends is correct. But perhaps the most important thing is that LO is now so clearly saying that you want tax on dividends. The reason why there has been a movement in this direction is that the dividend has risen year after year, to a staggering NOK 52 billion in the last year for which we have figures, namely 1998. Of these, about 30 billion go to private Norwegian shareholders, who of course contribute enormously to the demand pressure we also have in the Norwegian economy. Because if you really think that the demand pressure in the Norwegian economy is important, then these 30 billions are a major reason why we have the pressure we have, not least here in the East, in the housing market or the cabin market, or what else it might be that the pressure is manifested in. This means that if the Government intends to take seriously — and a government unfortunately often has to take impositions seriously, even if one does not fully agree with it — and if this is to be done in total correctly, the Government of the ordinary State budget for the autumn must provide some form of taxation of dividends. This proposal will have a majority in the Chamber, because the Central Party has now clearly said that they support it. SV has said very clearly that we want to, and the Workers' Party has LO in its back, which pushes on. I believe that the Minister of Finance will also see that this is a fair form of taxation, especially if, on the other hand, there is to be considerable relief for business. Interestingly, many argue that in Norway we have so many strange taxes that must therefore be removed. And it's interesting to note that those who argue with it never argue with what kinds of taxation you have in other countries, but we don't have in Norway. If you take Sweden, Denmark or any other country, and especially the United States, there are three types of tax that are very low in Norway and very high in others. It concerns housing, property and inheritance taxes, which are significantly higher than in Norway and which contribute significantly, particularly on an American scale, to the tax intake.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2396	Despite the fact that the Workers' Party spokespersons around this country, with Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg at the head, continue to tell stories and presentations about the policies of the Progress Party, as they know to be false, and as we have corrected many times, I will strive not to do the same in terms of the policies of the Labour Party Government. I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. I also agree with Per-Kristian Foss that it is remarkable that he has not participated in this debate. I can't remember when it happened the last time, but we're investigating it. The question concerns the local economy. We have asked a question in writing to the Government, and we have put it orally here in the Chamber to the Minister for Finance, to the parliamentary leader and to the Minister for Municipal Affairs. This was a major issue a few weeks ago, namely that according to the media, the Workers' Party Group was pressured by the Government to increase the growth framework of the municipal economy in 2001 by NOK 1 billion. In the case of payroll, the Government’s letter of reply states: ‘In the annual salary settlement in the municipal sector, the parties agreed on two additional holiday days in 2001. The accounting regulations for municipalities mean that funds must be set aside for holiday pay the year before the payment takes place. This provision is estimated to be approx. 1 billion. NOK 2000 The Government is set to propose an additional appropriations for 2000 for the local government sector of equivalent size, cf. letter from the Prime Minister of KS dated 26.5.2000.’ That's the first billion. However, in 2002, there will be two more days off, which will also cost NOK 1 billion, to be set aside in municipalities in 2001. In the same letter to our group, the government has confirmed that it does not change any of the sizes of the municipal economic proposition. This means that the extra billion in 2001 will have to cover the 2001 provision for the two holiday days in 2002. I do not want to travel around and claim that the Government has raped back the billion Workers' Party depository group, if the Prime Minister can confirm that the Government will bring another billion in the 2001 budget to increase the municipalities' budget in addition to what is in the municipal economy bill, thus going to cover the two new holiday days due in 2002. So in the past, we have asked three governments and parliamentary leaders. No one has wanted to answer this question — unless the Prime Minister now clarifies the government's policy. We've done what we can to find out what the actual ratio is, and we're going to claim that that billion has been raped back by the Government when they don't change their municipal economic proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2416	First to the representative Foss: The government will of course follow the decision of the Stortinget. The government will provide the basis for a system that can be implemented in line with the view of the Stortinget. I register the premises in the debate, and we will come back to the matter in the national budget. It is not the case that after my post the Progress Party raised questions about what the representative Hagen here refers to. On the other hand, the question concerned the impact in 2000. In the municipal economic proposition, the government says that it is currently adding up to a real ‘growth in the total income of the local government sector of SEK 3.5 to 4 billion’. Of course it is. As you know, the municipal economic proposition has been discussed here in the Chamber earlier this week. Otherwise, as former financial committee chairman, let me say that it has been a fairly common situation that the Prime Minister has not taken part in the debate. I record that the previous Prime Minister had a somewhat more active participation in some debates, that's what it is. But it hasn't been a common thing in the past in relation to revised debates. The representative, Karin Andersen, raised a question about housing. We will return to that in connection with the budget for the autumn. However, the representative also raised questions about the coverage mechanism in relation to the revised budget. So then the main task of the government has been to ensure that we have a policy that helps to secure employment and prevent an increase in the pressure in the economy. It's been the starting point. We have made the choice that we have continued the legislation in relation to the population's concern, continued the activity in KFOR and strengthened the activity in the hospitals. And then you had to get a deposit for $3.5 billion. What I've said is not that it's random how it's happened, but what I said – if I don't remember very wrong – in connection with the spontaneous question hour in Stortinget, was that you can't understand each cut in such a way that it's a deliberate down-priority from the Government in relation to the sectors that have had to be subjected to a reduction in funding. In order to ensure the tightness of the budget in a short time, the Government has to make cuts, even in areas where it is not enthusiastic but where it has to be done for the sake of the whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2433	I'll try to be brief and not extend the debate unnecessarily, but just answer the questions that were asked me. The intention of presenting a notice on the State temporary agency on 23 June was to give the market a signal and an assessment of why we proposed postponing the date of implementation. It will be completely unnecessary to give a signal to the market, because the Stortinget decides that it should be 1 July. What remains then is to report to Stortinget how to solve the problems and organise the activities, which were described separately both in the previous proposition and also in the committee setting. We believe that we have found solutions to this, and I am in particular satisfied with the possibility that the size now gives us to try this out within a limited period of time and report back to the Stortinge in connection with the 2001 budget, where we are of course aware that we need to have proper pricing of the services. We need to ensure that there is no illegal state aid that prevents these activities from being allowed, and that we make sure that we have a proper relationship with those who are employed and to be hired, because the assumption is that the lessor, who is here becoming the labour market seat, is responsible for them, without being civil servants. I believe that this is a good, smooth and proper way to do it, and then Stortinget achieves what has been the purpose of the new reform, namely to get more flexibility in the labour market while, through the establishment of this state-owned business, we are able to have a wide range of offers that allow us to also attract the weakest part of the group that is applying for work, and to integrate them into the temporary employment. That the Right is something skeptical, I understand, because the Right was not part of the majority who decided that the State should engage in this area, but I am dealing here with the majority of the Storting, which I naturally agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2440	First of all, for reasons of order: in the past, it was relatively unusual for Prime Ministers to take part in debates on the revised national budget, but I think it must be entirely possible to choose the form you want from the Government. We have also had other government councils in the debate, and in particular the Minister of Finance has participated. The fact that the central government participated somewhat more actively was a choice they made, but especially during Gro Harlem Brundtland's reign, it was often that the Prime Minister did not participate in the debate on the revised national budget. In the case of the local economy and the one billion, it's like we've notified one billion extra to the municipalities for the current year. This is because there is different accounting, different regulations and regulations regarding holiday pay for the country and for the municipalities. For the state, there are no provisions, which will be paid in 2001 when the extension of the holiday will take place, while for the municipalities there is another legislation, namely that they will be imposed a coercive or coercive provision for the current year of DKK 1 billion, which would have meant a real withdrawal or reduced activity in the municipalities of DKK 1 billion. But the money has to be paid by the municipalities only in 2001, and to neutralize it, so that we don't get negative 1 billion, but we get zero in relation to the level of activity in the municipalities, we've notified that we're going to compensate for it, and since it's to get back to zero, it's not the activity-seeking, but it's the activity-neutralizing -- that they first get minus 1 billion, and then they get a billion back from the state. We therefore believe that the way we have notified that we intend to deal with this in budgetary terms is completely sound. With regard to 2001, we have announced what we intend to contribute to the Community economic proposition, and it will be followed up in the 2001 state budget, which we are now working on. Firstly, in 2002, we have not made any significant progress with regard to the work on neither the local planning nor the budget, but there will be a decisive impact on the total expenditure of the municipalities when we finally put together the scheme, including the costs they then have for holiday pay. But then it will no longer be possible to label it the same way you do in the current year, because for the current year we know that we get an extra charge of NOK 1 billion, which we compensate for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2449	Per-Christian Foss has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2452	I am pleased that the Minister of Finance, on behalf of the Government, now announces that they will follow up on the proposal to exempt property taxes on industrial assets. He uses the term ‘in the national budget’. It is clear that this can be done, but I would warn the Government not to take budgetary considerations into account the value of such a reduction in the State budget. Then you put the problem in front of you unnecessarily. Of course, the government can do well, but I just want to mention it now, that if you leave it to take account of whether there are 1.5 or 2.5 billion, then there have been significant cooperation problems, both in relation to the Right, who want more, and in relation to the Centre, who at least want this. It's true that it's mentioned, because I think I'm going to hear this for the autumn. Finally, I would just like to say to the Siv Jensen of the Progress Party that when she is not talking about an expansive financial policy in her last post, but about a more active offer-side policy, I am very pleased, because that is the very opposite of what she said in her first post, and then we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2463	Carl I. Hagen has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2466	First, just one remark. I would like to remind you of paragraph 35(b) of the Rules of Procedure. For general debates, which he has used to be, that restriction does not apply. But I would like to make a comment to the Prime Minister, because he has not answered the question. I haven't talked about the economy in 2002. The situation we now have in 2000, which forces the municipalities to set aside an extra billion for two holiday days in 2001, he replied confirmably that it is correct. But we have exactly the same situation in 2001. Then the municipalities will have to set aside another DKK 1 billion – the same as this year – for the two holiday days that come the year after. And if you insist that the financial framework is going to be 3.5 to 4 billion more in 2001, you have to use one of those billions to cover the bill for two holiday days in 2002. The Prime Minister had obviously understood that when it came to 2000, he promised a billion. But he has not promised a billion to the next year – and then there is NOK 1 billion that has been raptured back from the municipal economy in 2001!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2475	The local economy will be a major challenge for the Government in the future. It will also be absolutely necessary for the Government to choose to cooperate with the majority of those who want to strengthen the local economy — if not, neither the Prime Minister nor the Minister of Finance will achieve its objectives of fairer distribution and better well-being. So that's absolutely necessary. Now that the Prime Minister is present in the Chamber, I could imagine asking him about what I asked the Minister of Finance yesterday. I heard with interest the Prime Minister in Dagsrevyen, after the treatment of the noise cancelling message, comment on housing policy, where the technique was to build so many dwellings that the price went down – both on rental and owner-occupied dwellings. The government has just said that at least 20,000 new rental homes are needed for the next five years just to meet the most precarious need. When SV then proposes in revised 150 million. NOK – which could make a small contribution to 1000 dwellings, slightly more to 500 dwellings – and a bet of 3000 dwellings each year, unfortunately we do not have the Workers' Party with us when we are going to be concrete. And we have to be. When will this offensive be launched? And how big should it be? So to the tightness of the budget. I fully agree with the Minister of Finance that we must have a budgetary policy that ensures full employment – fuller employment than we have today, because it is actually up to 70 000 who are unemployed. But then it is not a very good thing to suggest making it more expensive and risky for employers to hire people with health problems or disabilities by paying more of the sick pay period. Does this lead to more people being employed, or does it lead to fewer jobs? It is that building dwellings contributes positively to employment. If you cut in terms of SND and other regional policy instruments that are to be used to raise and stand small and large businesses, enterprises that are to provide jobs in the future, there is no particularly good contribution to job growth either. It is probably also the case that the money drawn from private consumption has as much tightening effect as the ones drawn from all the good measures. Nor do I think it is particularly harmful for employment if you spend more money in the local economy and less money, for example. on frigates.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2492	When the president turned off Carl I. Hagen saying he got the floor for a brief comment, it was wrong. The provision for restrictions does not apply to parliamentary leaders in general political debates. That's why the President's sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2497	I find it necessary to make a few brief comments in connection with the proposed exemption from activities. Firstly, I have registered that the Minister of Finance says he will follow this decision up, and of course I expect it to be in the government budget for the next year this will be followed up. It is with knowledge and will that we have chosen the topic of ‘nutritive’ in the proposed decision. As a example of commercial assets, I will briefly mention operating assets, stocks, customer receivables, operational liquidity, etc. The Ministry of Finance's challenge will then be to find out in a good way, for the benefit of the business community.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2506	Because, in my opinion, the representative Hagen, both from this pulpit several times today and in many other contexts, creates undue uncertainty about the community economy, and perhaps also a little confusion about the consequences of holiday money, I'm going to try to clarify it again. For the current year, we have given a compensation of NOK 1 billion. This is because the extra holidays were an unforeseen expense – which is due to be paid next year, but as a provision this year. And because it is then forced to save, we believe it is completely fiscally sound to compensate for it this year. It is absolutely right that there should also be a provision next year – i.e. in 2001 – for 2002. It will be among the things that we take into account when we determine the final municipal structure in the state budget, because the situation is that the municipal structure as it is now adopted in the Storting, is only finally determined when the budget is adopted in the autumn. It has turned out in different directions for municipalities in different years. For example, when it came to the 1997 budget, the Stortinget added to the municipal structure, which was then adopted in June, with – I think it was – NOK 3-4-5 billion, because it was thought that the situation was significantly more serious in November/December than it was in June of that year. On the other hand, in the autumn of 1999, the Stortingen reduced the appropriations for the municipalities by 1 or 1.5 billion kroner – I will be a little careful with the exact amount, that was at least a billion dollars – compared to what had been agreed in the municipal scheme, among other things. Because there's been an increase in tax revenue, so you're supposed to get even in total. It only illustrates that the Government, on its own initiative, before presenting the budget, has to make an overall assessment of the finances of the municipalities, and so, when we take into account cost growth and other costs, reduced tax intake or increased tax intake and other factors, present an overall municipal structure in the government budget that takes account of the intention of the municipal structure adopted. We will do that in the state budget. Then we will present it to the Storting, and then the Storting can debate and discuss it, and certainly also make adjustments to it before the final budget is adopted. That's how you usually handle the community structure. That is why what has now been adopted in June is indicative. But the final figures will be adopted when the budget is presented, and then we will also take into account factors such as increased provision for holiday pay. – I hope it was clarifying.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2519	Carl I. Hagen – and this time speaking time is not limited to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2522	That's not necessary. I thank the Prime Minister for the clarification that clearly implies that the municipalities do not have any idea of how much money they will receive in the year 2000. It will be laid down in the State budget for the autumn. That's exactly what the Prime Minister said now, it's when you add the budget for 2001 to the harvest, with all the balances to be made, that you get the final decision. So those who thought they got $1 billion more than they expected, they were wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2529	This will be my last point in this debate. I just need to underline a few things. The municipalities have received an extra NOK 1 billion. We have announced that, and we will bring it to the harvest. So there's no doubt about it. That billion is coming. So I think it was a delay of the representative Hagen, because in 2000, there's no doubt that there was an extra billion. What I think we're discussing is the municipality layout for 2001. I tried to explain in some thorough reasoning in my previous post that it is quite normal that the final decision on the revenues of the municipalities, as made by the Autumn Stortingen, deviates with the pluses and minuses in the billions size compared to the decision taken in June. This is due, for example, to: taking into account changes in cost growth, other estimates of wage growth or increased tax estimates. The size reduced the appropriations for municipalities by over DKK 1 billion in the autumn of 1999 compared to what was adopted in June, because there was an increase in tax revenue. I agreed. I'm not criticizing the central government for that for a moment. But saying that the municipalities do not have a bearing on what they get is wrong. There are guidelines. It's taken some major action. But the final decision is taken by the autumn. It's always been like that. Then we'll have enough to discuss for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2540	I really just wanted to take the floor to thank the Prime Minister for explaining why the growth of the local economy from 1999 to 2000 was SEK 1.1 billion in the state budget last autumn. The Prime Minister's representatives here in the Chamber have used every opportunity to say that the Workers' Party is increasing the growth of the local economy four times as much as the central government did, because we increased it by just $1 billion. It's quite right, as the Prime Minister says, what is the reference point for calculating the growth of the local economy? On the basis of the revised 1999 national budget, the Government of Stoltenberg added up to a growth in the municipal economy of DKK 3.4 billion. But due to additional tax revenue, as the Prime Minister quite rightly says, it was corrected in the State budget at NOK 1 billion. We can get into that situation. I tried to challenge the municipal minister on exactly the same issue yesterday morning during the debate on the municipal economic proposition, because it must be possible for the Prime Minister to answer Carl I. Hagen's questions about the municipalities will receive the billion they are promised, as compensation for extra holiday money for next year as well. If you can't promise it, it will mean a contraction – not a growth of DKK 3.5–4 billion, but NOK 2.5–3 billion, and there is a significant difference between municipalities. To correct for all the other things, that's okay. That debate we have to take to the harvest, because it is measurable. But it should be possible to answer a clear yes or no whether that billion is within the planned growth that the Government has planned, or not, for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2549	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Three, four, five, six, seven, eight. [[See page 3861 of this Official Journal.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2564	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Labour Party 25 minutes, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right 10 minutes each, the Centre Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the Representative Bastesen 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2575	I may well feel that the assembly is not so much motivated to resolve this matter now, but it is actually an important matter we are going to discuss in Stortinget today. It's been over six months since the Storting handled the credit message. In time, the noise level associated with this topic has been quite high. The Bondevik government's starting point was that we wanted two independent Norwegian financial institutions. We quickly recorded that there were no pluralities for that in Stortinget, and together with the Labour Party, the Centre Party drew up guidelines for the further management of the structure of the Norwegian financial industry, and especially considering what was going to happen with the State's ownership of the credit fund. The result of the management of the credit notification was that the State Bank Investment Fund was given the task of settling the basis for establishing a new, strong, Norwegian financial solution. While the State Bank Investment Fund has worked, not least from members of the Labour Party, it has come out strongly stating that the Minister of Finance must now do so. I'm not going to place fiscal politicians from the Labour Party today, but it could have our temptations. After the government change, however, the criticism is still silent, and the demand for rapid clarification also rests. But the government has found it right to close the assignment to the State Bank Investment Fund without the fund having come up with any final proposal. On the basis of the fact that it was important to get a clarification on this matter quickly, I am satisfied that the Government nevertheless provided it. A comprehensive committee indicates that the Stortinget drew up general guidelines for financial market policy in the management of the 1999 credit notification, among others. that the State's ownership interests must be exercised in accordance with commercial criteria by requiring the State Bank Investment Fund, which owns legal entities, to exercise its ownership of the State's ownership rights by means of specific legislation. A joint committee also stresses that ownership interests and the role of legislators and concessionaires are distinguished by the fact that competitive relationships are assessed by the Competition Authority. The Committee is also gathered to demonstrate the main objective of structural policy established in the setting of the credit notification, that the structural policy is to ensure that Norway has well-functioning and sound financial institutions, and that there is a high level of competition between the institutions. In the case of specific cases, namely what is to be done with the State's axis of the credit fund, the Committee shares. Norwegian financial institutions are relatively small in an international context. A Norwegian bank that is merged with a foreign bank has relatively small chances of getting its head office to Norway. The majority of the centres, the Labour Party and the SV, have noticed that there is only at least one third state ownership that guarantees that the head office is located in Norway. We still aim to secure a strong Norwegian financial solution. Therefore, it is important that the state holds at least one third of the axles of the unit we have built around DnB and the Postbank. The majority of the Committee has concluded that the State may sell its shares in the Credit Fund and that the State Bank Investment Fund may be responsible for the implementation of the sale. The sale of the axes must be carried out in the most commercial manner possible. A multiple, of the center, the right and the step, think there's a reason to expect a maximum price to speak for a single hall to a buyer, because a buyer who buys the whole stake would probably be willing to include a strategic premium in the price of the axans. So we want it to be worked to find such a buyer. A broad majority suggests that the sale should be done on a commercial basis, but also underlines the need for rapid clarification. Not least, this is important for those who have lived with uncertainty about the future of their work for a long time. For this reason, a majority of the emphasis is placed on the fact that the salt should be allowed to occur without undue delay. The Ministry has not addressed the issue of whether the State should, where appropriate, enter as the owner of the financial institution which may purchase the axles. This can be done by switching the axes of the credit fund into axes of the buyer institution. From the centre party's side, we think this is a problem that the department has to assess. The size today takes a position on the future of the state's axis in the credit fund. It's important to bear in mind that the state is not with all the axes. The future of the credit fund will also be linked to what the other owners do with their axes. It's important that we get this clarification now before Stortinget takes a summer vacation. I don't think at least the members of the credit fund are happy to clarify. Maybe there's also someone out there in the famous market who's been putting or planning to put a bid on the axane. They are probably also happy that today there will be such a clarification. But it's not just the credit card that needs a clarification associated with the future. The Hope Selection, or the Competition Surface Selection, has submitted its report on the competitive areas of the financial industry. The government has discussed this report and said something about its follow-up progress in the revised national budget. I think it's okay to associate a couple of comments with this at the very end. I'm afraid the government's proposal for progress in the follow-up to the Competition Surface Selection will lead to too much time before important problem settings are clarified. I am therefore pleased that a majority in the budget setting say that follow-up must take place as quickly as possible, and that this work must be given the highest priority. The majority also make a proposal: ‘The Government is asked to provide a statement, at the latest in the 2001 National Budget, on the changes in the rules resulting from the report of the Competition Board, together with a statement of progress on the issues requiring further investigation.’ I believe the Government will follow up on this. The rapid development of consolidation and restructuring in the financial market requires a good development of a strong Norwegian financial institution in which the State has its concentrated ownership. As I said, a joint committee has stated that the State’s ownership interests must be exercised according to commercial criteria. Of course, this applies not only to the sale of the credit fund, but also to the further management of ownership of the strong national unit which is partly built and partly built around DnB and Postbanken. For the sake of the financial institution we are still to own, but also for the sake of all the other financial institutions, it is important that the follow-up to the Competition Board is speeded up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2620	Norwegian and international banking industries have been and will be affected by major structural changes. Strong driving forces have given rise to both increased internationalisation and tougher competition. The banks have met this challenge in different ways. Mergers, cooperation agreements, the use of data services and efficiency improvements have been weapons used by banks to hijack larger market shares and more customers. The banking crisis of the 1990s created state ownership of the commercial banks and, after the situation normalized, the state's holdings in the banks have been reduced or sold. The Labour Party has been concerned that the state ownership of commercial banks should be grouped into one national unit, built around DnB. In this way, it opened up the sale of the state's holdings in the credit fund. The State Bank Investment Fund was given the task by the Ministry by letter of 9 December 1999 and has worked closely on the matter until 19 May 2000. On 26 May, the Ministry of Finance presented St.meld. No Thirty-eight. I stress these dates, because there has been criticism that the work has gone too late, but in relation to the job that the Minister of Finance and the Ministry of Finance have had, the ministry has, in my opinion, been working relatively quickly. The State’s interests shall be exercised in a commercial manner through the State Bank Investment Fund, which has clear guidelines on how to carry out its part of the work. The state ownership of banks is important to ensure head office functions in Norway. There are strategic decisions in the head offices and product development is taking place. Another important factor is that bank top skills are most often added to the head offices, and since technological developments still require new knowledge of IT, risk management and capital management, Norway, if one cannot have head office in the financial industry in Norway, will continue to stand without such special skills. The Labour Party does not want Norwegian financial institutions to remain as mere distributors of financial services. This is the background to the Workers' Party's commitment to own more than one third of the shares in a strong Norwegian financial institution. Only through this can the State that owns help bring about further development in the Norwegian financial environment. Since the sale of the shares in the credit fund is now settled, I fully understand the problems that the employees of the credit fund have encountered in the uncertainty about the further organisation of the bank. The working party fully supports the sale of the shares in the credit fund without undue delay. Therefore, the working party does not see a long-term process of implementing this sale, but expects the Bank Investment Fund to use both its capacity and hired private operators to implement the sale as quickly as possible. Some of the parties to the Stortinget claim the future owners, both that they may be an industrial buyer and that the buyer should be from the Nordic countries. On the other hand, the Labour Party considers that a solution is adopted that takes into account both the economic interests of the State and the need for a well-functioning structure of the financial market. The State Bank Investment Fund has a tough job ahead of it in terms of selling the State's shares in the Credit Fund. This requires considerable competence, and I am therefore pleased that the fund has good experience in this area from previous sales. The fund shall decide how the shares are to be sold and the time at which they are to be sold. A number of questions have also been raised about the continued fate of the Bank Investment Fund after the sale in the credit fund has been made. I think it's too early to wonder whether the interests in DnB should be managed differently from the way this ownership is maintained by the Bank Investment Fund. The Labour Party is equally engaged in the role of the Government and the Ministry of Finance in relation to the ownership, legislator, concession authority and regulator. It is therefore necessary to avoid systems whereby the Ministry and Government are given precisely these roles. It is therefore with amazement that I see that the Progress Party and the Right want to close down the State Bank Investment Fund. Since there is a majority in the Storting for a government involvement in DnB, these parties should see the advantage of using the State Bank Investment Fund just to avoid a mix of roles. Finally, let me make it clear that when selling the Credit Card, the price is important, but it is also essential what we do in relation to the bank in which the State still owns, namely DnB.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2650	The representative of Fossum underlined that she believed that it had taken reasonable time to clarify this matter. No, the only reasonable thing about this matter is that it is now finally getting its clearance. It is highly unreasonable that it has been necessary to use so many months to arrive at a formal conclusion on something which has, to a large extent, been a real conclusion among a majority in the United Kingdom. And it doesn't help to strengthen the Norwegian reputation, nor does it help to strengthen the country's reputation as an owner in various Norwegian companies, when you don't have the ability to clarify either ownership or role as a concession authority. And there we are in the middle of one of the things that Grethe Fossum also pointed to, that is, the state's very many roles. It appears so well in this matter that it should be an example of horror for similar cases for the future. For this reason, it is very important that the further progress of this case is now brought to an end quickly, as the majority of the Committee stresses, namely that there is no reason why this could not have been carried out during the summer or the autumn. So the representative Fossum said she was so surprised that the Right Party and the Advance Party wanted to shut down the State Bank Investment Fund. There's nothing to be amazed at. The State Bank Investment Fund has shown its complete inability to manage ownership in Norwegian banks. They have shown to the full that they are not able to master the task they were given by the Government of the future to explore the Norwegian financial industry structure. And with that in mind, there is no reason to maintain the State's Bank Investment Fund. If this is the case now that we are left with one third of the DnB shares for active management, they can be fully respected in an excellent way by one of the departments that are already involved in managing a lot of other ownership by the state. It would probably be most appropriate not to place it directly under the Ministry of Finance, but perhaps under the Ministry of Commerce and Food. The progress party has four minority proposals in the vote, and I take them up. I would like to comment on at least one of them, and this is the proposal that is going to ensure that former private shareholders who got written off all their ownership of the banks in the context of the banking crisis are now compensated. The state does not lack money and by selling out both of the credit fund and parts of DnB it will be fully possible to provide compensation to these former private shareholders, which at least in our discretion would be morally correct, based on the attitude taken by the state in connection with the banking crisis for some years ago. I have to say I'm a little surprised that the Right has not joined this, because it's not been more than a few years since Per-Kristian Foss and I made a proposal to take care of the interests of the former shareholders. I am aware that this has been a subject of the Banking Act Commission, but it should not change the situation, namely that there were many private shareholders who, at my discretion, were seriously underestimated by the State in that context. But one of the most amazing things in the entire debate on the future Norwegian financial industry is this alleged truth that it is important that the state maintains at least one third of the ownership of one of the banks, because then we get one strong Norwegian financial unit. When did it become a truth that state ownership itself gives strong units? It has never proved true in any other case. And then would a state ownership itself ensure that DnB becomes a large, great and strong bank, which can expand and really become an active party in the Norwegian financial industry? That's how ownership is managed and exercised, and how to drive the bank forward that's crucial, not whether the state owns shares in that bank or not. That is why – I think – it is deficient in this debate that the majority who are really concerned about the continued ownership of the State cannot explain why, and how to manage its ownership, precisely in order to safeguard DnB’s interests. One thing that should not at least be done is to add additional capital to the bank, which would therefore actively contribute to distortions of competition between the players in the Norwegian financial market. And I'm assuming that's not the intention of the majority. But if that argument is abandoned, it remains open what you think will ensure a strong Norwegian financial unit, as ownership itself does not guarantee it. Finally, this matter is being resolved. Finally, we get a clarification, and hopefully the Government will also clarify the future structure of this in a very short time, so that the Storting will not have to continue to masturbate on the Government so that we can sell these shares within a reasonable time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2672	Siv Jensen has drawn up the suggestions she made well for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2675	You can read most of the settings, including: what the representative Siv Jensen was now amazed at, why the Right does not once again raise the proposal for compensation to the former shareholders of the failing banks. In fact, it is very clear to read in the setting on page 5, as we point out that this question has been as carefully assessed as the Stortinge can do at all. We set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry, the Smith Committee, which gave a position and which was dealt with in the Stortinget. We consider that to be the end of that debate. We didn't make it. I'm sorry, but I get to stick to Carl I. Hagen's motto that there are limits to how many fights you can take. And I think that with a parliamentary scrutiny there is a point set. Then we will no longer go by parliamentary means. That's the explanation. The spokeswoman of the Workers' Party, Grethe G. Fossum, was amazed why the Bank's Investment Fund was to be closed down. There is also a fairly good explanation in the setting. I would like to stress that it is in confidence that we have a government apparatus that is able to manage the sale of state shares. I can polemise against the representative Fossum by saying that if the Ministry of Transport is able to sell Telenor shares, I have the little confidence in the Ministry of Finance that they are also able to handle the sale of a slightly more limited number of shares in the Bank of Credit. What remains of the administration, I think should be able to transfer to the department that will manage the state's interests in different companies collectively and in a professional way. We don't need a bank fund with its administration and board to solve this simple task. To the very heart of the matter, namely, the question of what is going to happen to the state's interests in the credit fund, I would like to say that we have finally got a clarification. The clarification is that I can say to the majority, the centre and the Workers' Party: Welcome after! So they've spent six-seven months on this, and it hasn't brought the matter one second! Should it have added anything to the case, it would have to be to reduce the value of the State's shares, because the state's behaviour during this period has not strengthened the confidence in the Norwegian stock market – in particular the part in which the State is involved. It has cost uncertainty in the banks concerned. It should not be underestimated either. Many thousands of employees in both the DNB and the credit fund have lived for several months in uncertainty about their situation because the state has not been able to determine what it wants with its ownership. It has been negative for the restructuring of the banks, and it has, as I said, been negative for the market. I get to say it this way: Welcome after, but this pause of thought, which has been purely party-politically justified, has indeed cost! Now it's urgent to realize a reasonable solution. A reasonable solution, as we suggest in the setting, can be several things. The important thing is to follow the interests of shareholders – in this case in the credit fund. It may be both sale to a maximum bidder with cash redemption, there may be a choice between cash redemption or shares, and there may be possible merger solutions, for example based on a Nordic unit, which has been seen in other cases. Let me take an example, relatively randomly chosen: when Uni Denmark enters Merita, it is based on a merger, where the owners become owners of the new bank. There is also a possible way to get out of it, so the State can choose whether to sit on those shares or simply choose a cash redemption. The important thing is that this is now given a quick clarification of the reasons I have mentioned before, and I trust that the Minister of Finance, with the special background of this matter, will ensure that it is implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2688	As indicated by the suspension, the central party’s primary position remains that there should be a basis for maintaining at least two strong national banking environments and that there should therefore be a basis for maintaining the credit fund as an independent Norwegian bank. When we consider this to be important, it is based on the importance of having strong Norwegian financial environments to provide head office functions in Norway, with decision-making powers in Norway and with competence in relation to the needs of Norwegian business, as well as that these banks should continue to have a good geographical representation. I want to go back a little bit to the crisis we had in the fishing industry in the early 1990s, with low quotas and major economic problems both within the fishing industry and the fishing fleet. I am quite convinced that without the good geographic representation that both the savings banks and the commercial banks had at that time, and the proximity of the banks to their customers in the fishing industry, we would have been in a completely different situation both in relation to ownership of the fleet and ownership of the resources than what we are doing today. But just knowing customers and close contact made the banks patient. They knew their customers and were proud that the loans would be served when you were over the worst crisis – you had the patience to wait until the industry was in a situation where it was possible to get through this properly. I am not as convinced that a branch of foreign decision-making authority and credit authority that is not located locally – in the worst cases perhaps not nationally – would take the same considerations and deal with them in the same way as the local savings banks and commercial banks did at that time. But we have taken note that there is a majority in the Stortning for the sale of the credit fund, and I assume that the considerations that I have pointed out here are also emphasised when selling the credit fund. I'm inclined to add that in case of almost equal bids, this should actually be given decisive importance. The centre, along with the Right, points to the fact that the offer from MeritaNordbank is linked to the establishment of a Nordic financial unit, and I would like to say that the concept that MeritaNordbank is working on, in my opinion, is a good solution, which seems essentially to safeguard the interests I have pointed out. I would also like to point out the comment that we have, which goes in the same direction as the Per-Christian Foss now says, that a merger solution should be strongly considered – that is, the exchange of shares for a holding in the new financial unit.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2701	In this case, SV has a dissenting view of the majority. We've basically had that all since the bank case came up, because we've always been skeptical about selling out the state's bank shares. If you take a little historical turn back, you'll see that these shares weren't really for sale. It was bids from a Swedish bank that completely recalibrated the structure of the Norwegian banking market. It is no longer more than three years since the Financial Committee and the Stortinget believed that we would have three independent business banking environments in Norway, even one outside Oslo, which was Focus Bank in Trondheim. Then we sold away Focus Bank, and then the Finance Committee, and later the Stortinget, thought that it was important that we should have two business banking environments in Norway. We meant that until last autumn, when MeritaNordbanken submitted a bid on the credit card, and then suddenly there was a bank for sale that was not initially for sale. There's perhaps one of the most serious things about what's now happening. It turns out that even in banks owned by the Stortinget – or owned by the Norwegian people through the Stortinget – no structure decision is ever taken by the Stortinget. That means that the Storting should discuss the structure of the financial market, regardless of random bids. The fact that there is a Swedish in private aircraft over the refrigerator would not in any way justify the fact that the Stortinget is actually moving around completely on the structure of the Norwegian banking market, as it has now done. The serious thing about it is that the decision that Stortinget today takes – that one sells away from the credit fund – means that no one needs to trust that Stortinget believes it is serious that DnB should stay on the government's hand. The reason why there is a point in itself is the following – because there are a couple of good points that it makes sense that the state sits as owner of commercial banks: For the state there has been a sensible money placement, there is one thing. It's given good returns. So in Norway, we don't have similar private capitalists who allow themselves to sit on ownership over periods that swing up and down, as in many other countries where there are heavy private capitalists. In Norway, the country has performed this function to a large extent. The second important point of having state ownership in banks is that it ensures that one has head office functions and adjacent glory in Norway. We have seen a good example of this in connection with the sale of Focus Bank to the Danske Bank, which has now moved all functions to Copenhagen, which means that all loans to – I think it is – approx. Twenty million. kr must be approved in Copenhagen. This means that all the customers serving up the coast of Norway that Focus Bank has to be approved in Copenhagen. And the Danish head office does not necessarily understand how Norwegian fish farming is run or Norwegian transport is run. For the local business, where Focus Bank has impact fields, this will of course be a problem. I'm not saying that it's necessarily going to happen with the credit fund, or that it needs to happen if DnB is going to be sold, because the result of Storting's policy is that it's just to town at DnB, it's for sale. So the size decision does not have a longer duration than that. I believe a small nation that Norway needs for healthy competition in the banking market. This means having more business banking environments and more environments in Norway. Business banks generate a significant activity in the area of competence development and IT development, and it is not least an important incentive for business to have a bank in the community. I fear that a foreign purchase of the credit fund over time will cause the credit fund to become part of a larger international bank. Now, if you choose to join other Nordic players, it becomes so attractive that even the big foreign banks will sniff at it. It's necessarily not true that big is better. In this way it was interesting to hear the bank manager of Den Danske Bank, who bought Focus Bank, Peter Straarup, who was in Norway the other day. He says there's an egotrip behind bank mergers. He believes that one of the strongest driving forces behind buying and merging are the bank managers' own egos, and he also says that there is no evidence that the size of the banks necessarily produces better results. Because if you look at the Credit Card and DnB, you'll see that they've delivered very satisfactory results. It is not necessarily the case that the large banks deliver better results. The banks also have a different function, namely to fill a social function, not least this is the case in Norway, and that function has to be filled by the credit fund and DnB. I think it's unwise to now choose to sell out of the credit fund, also because it's been a reasonable money placement. When the Storting chooses to go in for such a solution, SV will stress that there is a point in trying to do this to a Nordic bank to a greater extent than an international bank. And that means that, from SV's point of view, you should get a solution that allows the state's shares to be exchanged in another Nordic bank, so that the Nordic countries together can have some control over the new bank. If it's possible, I don't know. Nor is a majority of the Committee on Finance seeking such a solution. However, it would have provided a greater degree of guarantee that the credit fund will remain in Norway with the functions it currently has. I fear that this is just the beginning of a major structural change which means that in Norway we will have less competition in disfavor of business and consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2720	As early as September 1999, the government of the Left decided to go in to sell the Bank of Credit, preferably as part of a Nordic financial group. That's exactly what it now opens to as a result of Storting's treatment. While this position has been the position of the Left all the way, it has taken a very long time, especially for the Workers' Party, to reach the same conclusion. Capital has almost become a virtual commodity. It moves around the world at electronic speed, it knows no limits, it floats where its returns are highest in terms of risk, and it becomes alarmed by the lack of predictability. This sets the framework for the Norwegian financial industry. Norway becomes a small group of money as the oil is converted into capital. The national objective must be to use this commodity in the same way as oil, to create ring-effects in Norway, to new jobs and to increase value creation for the benefit of future generations. Only through a broad, competent and diverse Norwegian financial environment can capital be involved in supporting Norwegian innovation. Our innovations need competent investors and advisors who know local circumstances. Innovators need both fathers and capital, so it is important to further develop the financial environment we have in Norway, not to build it down. Our banking system has overcapacity in proportion to the size of the Norwegian market, but it also has Switzerland. Therefore, instead, we should give our finance industry international framework conditions so that Norwegian financial institutions can grow and have ring-fenced effects. By joining together and rationalising Norwegian financial institutions, we may be able to increase short-term returns in the financial industry, but for the nation it is more important to see the industry as the core of a cluster, just as Norwegian shipping companies in Norway have created a global industry of the maritime cluster by giving them international conditions. National controls need not imply state or national ownership. Gunnar Knudsen and Christian Michelsen already realized it when they industrialized Norway using foreign capital. It is important to have professionalism and competition within Norway. Therefore, the left said early that the credit fund could not be purchased and integrated into other Norwegian financial institutions. Under no circumstances does aggregation of Norwegian financial institutions create more competitive entities internationally. They will always be dwarfs, which can be easily bought by foreign owners, also because they are lower prices, not least because of state ownership. Therefore, it is only misunderstood nationalism to believe that a merger with DnB, or a parity of the credit fund, strengthens the nation of Norway. On the contrary, such thinning of the financial environment would weaken competition and local competence and would result in large Norwegian companies moving all or part of their purchases of financial services abroad. We have national control of the industry through law and credit supervision, competition is created by the acquisition of the credit fund by professional owners. The most professional are the ones that offer the highest, because they see the possibilities of best returns in the long term. In addition, a foreign owner will purchase the credit card just to develop Norwegian networks, competences and market share. They buy closeness to the Norwegian market. It's all right to prefer Nordic ownership, but it's a derailment because we don't know how long a Nordic unit remains in Nordic ownership. If we are to develop a national financial industry as a cluster, it is an advantage that a large financial unit has its head office in Norway. We do that by letting the state own 33 1/3 of the DNB to keep control of the statutes. It also has a symbolic value, one can compare it to the fact that DnB’s headquarters in Bergen do not rub off particularly in relation to the activities of the bank in Oslo. The Banking Investment Fund was established to safeguard the State’s interests following the banking crisis, but once the sales have been made, its role is played and the fund can be wound up. The state ownership of DnB shall be exercised via the general meeting only to guard the statutes and professional owners shall manage the operations. This is also how the DnB share will gradually get a more accurate price, when the market experiences that the country’s ownership role is restricted. The size of the country’s ownership of the credit fund contains some clarifications that are important for the growth of the financial industry in Norway. The left will contribute to the further development and growth of the Norwegian financial industry following the lines drawn up by the Hope Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2753	We are currently dealing with the sale of the credit fund. As I see it, and as the Norwegian people see it, this world's largest modern banking robbery. In the 1980s, money was lent in buckets and buckets. You could go into the banks and get a plastic bag full of thousands, and it was wrong. It was about increasing the volume and increasing the flow of capital. It had to go wrong. Then it was added that there would be tight credit ratings, and if the ratings were too bad, this would be realized. Result: bankruptcies and losses. The banks went bankrupt, the state confiscated with the Bank Insurance Fund, all the small savers lost their money – all lost. The state pledged. Now the government owns, now the shares have increased in value, rising again from one dollar – the price rises and rises and rises. The representative Foss talked about that we have lost so much lately that we were going to sell a long time ago. I think we've earned, because the shares continue to rise in value. All right, let's sell. We're going to sell, we're going to realize the values. But where are we going to make out of the money? The representative Johansen will place them in Norway. But we can't do that. Here we have too much money; hundreds of billions are to be placed abroad. Where are we going to put the money? That's my question. We can't have them in Norway. We cannot have a bank – the bank is to be sold abroad. When the bank is sold to Merita Nordbanken and abroad, the money is to be sent. I have to ask the question, what's going on? What are we doing? Why can't we have a Norwegian banking industry? Why can't we have the money invested in Norway? Why can't we put them in the Bank of Norway, for example? No, they have to go. We're going to have a professional banking industry. I don't think it reminds me so much of professionalism when we're going to sell the values of the state, the values of the people are to be sold, and the money is to be placed abroad. I have in the setting gone contrary to principle. If you had distributed the shares, given them back to the people and let the people decide for themselves their shares, I could agree, but to sell a bank abroad, and then to send the money to the rest of the world – a win – is too bad. And it doesn't just go on this case, but it goes on all the other big businesses. We have a new big case – it's Statoil, to be sold. Sell and realize! But where are we going to make out of the money? Yes, they are to be sent abroad. We can't have them in Norway, because then there'll be inflation. We cannot invest in infrastructure, we cannot invest in roads, we cannot invest in ports, we cannot invest in research, which is our future – no, the money has to go away. It's too much money. But why should we sell? Why in the world are we going to sell everything? I can't get into my head. One seller only once, and real values are rising every year. If – and we expect it – the world will move forward, if, as we expect, the economy will grow both in Norway and around the world otherwise, real values will rise. And I can't get into my head why we're going to sell, because, as I said, we can sell only once. If you sold in such a way that the people could take over and make their own decisions when they wanted to sell, I would have understood that. I was in my main post in the debate on revised rather than just that point that we can't afford to own anything anymore in this country. We hardly know if we can afford to live in this country. Can we afford to have people living in this country? Is it maybe the thing that's happening that we're going out? Are we going to go away, so multinational companies can take over all our natural resources? Is that what we're doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2767	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2770	I will not comment on the 740 questions asked in the last article; it is a representative's privilege to also answer the questions you ask yourself. I just want to limit myself to saying that the Right Group will vote in favour of proposal No. 1 in the sequence of suggestions on page 6 in the setting in line with what was announced in the setting, and in line with what I said in my own post. It is therefore a matter of proposal No. 1, where they ask the Government to close down the State Bank Investment Fund. I would ask the President to correct the vote so that one can vote separately on proposal No. 1 and overall on the proposals Nos. Two, three, four.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2779	The President will see to it that it is done. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3904]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2800	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3904]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2820	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3905]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2839	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3905]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2858	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3905]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2877	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3905]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2892	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3905]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2911	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3905]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2930	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3905]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2949	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3906]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2968	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3906]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e2987	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3906]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e3006	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3906]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e3026	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3906]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e3045	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3906]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e3064	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3906]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e3083	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3907]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e3102	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3907]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e3121	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3907]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e3140	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3907]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e3162	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3907]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e3181	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3907]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e3200	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3907]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e3219	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3908]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e3239	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3908]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e3247	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e3310	A total of 69 proposals have been made for case No. 4th@item: inlistbox It's: proposal No 1, from Valgerd Svarstad Haugland on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Right, Center Party, Socialist Left Party, Left and Steinar Bastesen proposal No. 2, from Dag Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and Steinar Bastesen proposal No. 3, from Valgerd Svarstad Haugland on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Right, Center Party, Left and Steinar Bastesen proposal No. 4, from Dag Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 5-8, from Valgerd Svarstad Haugland on behalf of the Christian People's Party, Right, Center Party and Left Proposal No. 9, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Socialist Left Party and Steinar Bastesen proposals No. 10 and 11, from Dag Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, proposals No. 12 and 13, from Valgerd Svarstad Haugland on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, Left and Steinar Bastesen proposals no. 14-19, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Steinar Basteen the proposals No. 20 and 21, from Valgerd Svarstad Haugland on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left Proposals No. 22-26, by Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 27, from Valgerd Svarstad Haugland on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, Left and Steinar Bastesen proposal No. 28, from Valgerd Svarstad Haugland on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and Left Proposal No. 29, from Siv Jensen, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and Steinar Bastesen, proposal No. 30, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progressive Party and the Socialist Left, proposal No. 31, by Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right and Socialist Left Party, proposals No. 32-34, from Siv Jensen on behalf of the Progress Party and Steinar Bastesen proposals No. 35 and 36, from Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right and Steinar Bastesen, on the proposals No. 37-44, by Mr Jensen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on 45-47, by Mr Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 48, from Øystein Djupedal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and Steinar Bastesen the proposals No. 49-60 and No 67 and 68, by Mr Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left, 61-64, by Steinar Bastesen 65, by Per-Kristian Foss, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 66, by Siv Jensen on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 69, from Day Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. Before we go to voting, the President will draw attention to the fact that, in agreement with the parties involved, it will not be opened up to the fragmentation of minority voting proposals. When we come to the vote on the vote on the motion for a resolution, the parties are set to abstain from the vote they would normally have taken – this in order to avoid a very time-consuming and partly complicated voting where the result is nevertheless given. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this must not be used against a party on a later occasion. Then we should be ready for voting. The vote will be taken first on the minority proposals and then on the vote on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e3400	President, an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e3407	Yes, to the extent necessary. Otherwise, the president thinks she's brought most of the evidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e3410	I've got to get my group in order! It concerns the proposals Nos. 63 and 64, which I would like to turn into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e3417	Then we will start with the proposals No. 63 and 64, from the representative of Steinar Bastesen. Proposal No. 63 has now been converted into a transmission proposal and has been worded as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government of the ordinary State budget for 2001 provide an indication of how the observation of the link between the outer and the innermost joints south-west of Vega should be resolved.’;» Proposal No. 64 has also been converted into a transmission proposal and has been worded as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government report on the progress of the Stadt Stunnel project in the ordinary budget 2000.’;» The President proposes that these proposals be forwarded to the Government without a trial of reality – It is deemed to be adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 61 and 62, from the President of Bastesen. Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘Chap.Postal Purpose: Kroner101International Stations [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3101):]] Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The Council asks the Government, in the light of the report on active fishing communities from Fisheries Research No. 16/32000 and the Directorate-General for Fisheries report of the autumn of 1998, on the way in which local ownership of the fishing industry and the maintenance of the pattern of residence are to be ensured in the ordinary budget of 2001.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e3514	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 49-60 and proposal No 68, from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 49 sounds: «Cap.PostObjective:Crons150Aid to priority countries and regions:70Aid to Africa, can be transferred,reduced by 55 000 000 from DKK 1 630 000 000 to kr 1 575 000 00072Aid to Central America, can be transferred, reduced by 15 000 000 from kr 137 000 000 to kr 122 000 000 000190Human aid in the event of natural disasters:70Government in the event of natural disasters, can be transferred, granted by 250 520 000228Quality development in the primary school IT package, granted by 600 000 000238Quality development in secondary education:1Operating expenditure, increased by 15 000 000 000 from kr 82 898 000 to kr 97 898 000294Circular administration [[NY]] [[NY]] [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4760)]] Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘Chap. 5542 Fee on mineral oil, etc. – entry 70 Fee for mineral oil As from 1 July 2000, Decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 26 November 1999 on the fees for mineral oil for the 2000 budget is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e4508	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 67, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to carry out assessments and proposals in the 2001 budget on a plan for debt recovery for county municipal debt related to hospitals.’ The Progress Party has announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e4524	There is a vote on proposal No. 48, from the Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: «Chap.PostObjective:Croner320General cultural purposes:73National cultural buildings, can be transferred, increased by 1 000 000from NOK 54 500000 to NOK 55 500 000322Image art, handicrafts and design [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4790):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e4774	So let's look at the proposals. 45, 46 and 47, from the right. Proposal No. 45 sounds: «Cap.Post Purpose:Croner100The Ministry of Foreign Affairs:1Operating expenditure, reduced by 2 650 000 from NOK 308 865 000 to NOK 306 215 000150Aid to priority countries and regions:70Aid to Africa, may be transferred, reduced by 476 600 000 from NOK 1 630 000 000 to NOK 1 153 400 00071Aid to Asia, may be transferred, reduced by 70 000 000 from NOK 380 000 to NOK 310000 00072Aid to Central America, may be transferred, reduced by 75 000 000 from NOK 137 000 to NOK 62 000 000228Quality development in primary and county schools and counties:51District development grants, funds, may be used under Chapter. [[SND]] 551 item 51, reduced by 239 000 000 from NOK 819 000 to NOK 580 000 00053Indebtedness to cover losses on loans, reduced by 30 000 000 from NOK 105 000 000 to NOK 75 000 0002600Indebtedness ratio:1Indebtedness expenditure, reduced by 98 000 000 from NOK 3 418 800000 to NOK 3 320 800 0002603Indebtedness entitlement:1Operating expenditure, reduced by 1 000 000 from NOK 35 000 to NOK 34 000 0002650Sickness benefit:70Sickness benefit for employees, etc., estimated appropriation, increased by 20 000 000 from NOK 17 629 000 to NOK 17 8310002663Medical rehabilitation, etc.:75Improvement of functionality, technical aids, reduced by 175 000 000 from NOK 2 634 000 to NOK 2 459 000 0002683 [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5701):]] Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a national emission allowance scheme for SO2 in the context of the 2001 State Budget.’ Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to assume that private X-ray institutes are granted the same right to reimbursement of the tariff as in the public domain.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e6678	We then come to proposal No. 65, from the right. Here most parties have announced that they will vote in favour. The President has received such warning from the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left. The Socialist Left wants to vote against. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for proposals for measures to ensure the competitiveness of Norwegian seafarers’ employment in the context of the submission of the 2001 State Budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e6692	We have then come to the proposals No. 37-44 and proposal No 66, by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials Proposal No. 37 sounds: «Chap.Post Purpose:Croner21The Council of State is reduced by 675 000 000 from DKK 4 745 000 000 to DKK 4 070 000 0005583Special charges, etc. in the telecommunications sector40 Revenue from auctions on frequencies, granted at 10000000» [[autodiesel fee]] [[new]] Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘Chap. 5536 Fee on motor vehicles, etc. Item 77 Fee for mineral oil for the propulsion of motor vehicles As from 1 July 2000, Decision of the Grand Duchy of Great Britain of 26 November 1999 on the Fee for mineral oil for the propulsion of motor vehicles for the 2000 budgetary period shall be amended as follows: [[autodiesel fee]] [[autodiesel fee]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e7079	We vote on the motions for resolutions. 35 and 36, from the Right and the representative Steinar Bastisen. Proposal No. 35 sounds: «Chap.PostDestination:Croner1400Ministry of the Environment [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4400):]] Proposal No. 36 sounds: «Chap.Post Purpose:Croner4829Concession Fee Fund [[(see section 4.4). cap. 1820 and 1830):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e7175	We vote on the motions for resolutions. 32, 33 and 34, from the Party of Advancement and the representative of Steinar Bastesen. Proposal No. 32 sounds: «Cap.Post Purpose:Croner571Room grants to municipalities:60Builder grants/expenditure equalization, increased by 906 850 000from NOK 29 441 758 000from NOK 30 348 608 000572Room grants to county councils:60Builder grants/expenditure equalization, increased by 428 900 000from NOK 15 408 643 000from NOK 15 837 543 000730The health service of the counties:64Additions to hospital equipment, can be transferred, increased by 100 000 from NOK 764 000 000 from NOK 864 000 000731Rikshospital:50State grants, increased by SEK 72 430 000from DKK 1 162 400 000 to DKK 1 224 830 0001592Special labour market measures for disabled persons:72Stendering measures, operation, can be transferred, can be used under headings 70 and 71, increased by DKK 175 000from DKK 1796 to NOK 1 162 000» Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to propose to the Government, in the context of the submission of the 2001 State Budget, that the rate of aid for the employment of seafarers be increased to 20 pst. and that passenger service on NOR ferries, NIS training positions and crew of bow loads in North Sea crude oil transport are included in the scheme.» Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide stateless persons with full compensation for the loss of the seafarer’s allowance for state losers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e7339	There is a vote on proposal No. 31, from the Right and Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Chap.PostObjective:Croner1592Special labour market measures for disabled persons:72Protected measures, operation, transferability, useable under headings 70 and 71, increased by 61 895 000 from NOK 1 579 291,000 to NOK 1 641 186 0002420 National Food and Rural Development Fund [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5320 and 5620):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e7421	There is a vote on proposal No. 30, from the Party of Advancement and the Socialist Left. The proposal reads as follows: «Chap.Post Purpose:Croner2410 State Loan Fund for Education [[(see section 4.4). cap. 2410):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e7498	There is a vote on proposal No. 29, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party and the representative of Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: «Chap.Post Purpose:Crones281Common expenditure on universities and higher education [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4820 and 4829):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e7600	There is a vote on proposal No. 28, from the Christian people, the centurion, and the left. The proposal reads as follows: «Cap.Post Purpose:Croner150Assistance to priority countries and regions70Assistance to Africa, may be transferred, reduced by 60 000 000 from DKK 1 630 000 000 to DKK 1 570 000 000571Assistance to municipalities60Inhabitant grant/expenditure smoothing, increased by 163 750000 from NOK 29 441 758 000 to NOK 29 605 508 0001510Assets and operating expenditure, increased by 2 200 000 from NOK 327 637 000 to NOK 329 837 0001582Development of the Fornebu area21Special operating expenditure, may be carried over, increased by 3 100 000 from NOK 3 900 000 to NOK 7 000 0001590Assets of labour market [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4590)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e7751	There is a vote on proposal No. 27, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left Party, and the representative Steinar Bastesen. Here, the chapters of the proposal are voted on, with the exception of the chapter. 463, to which the President will come back when voting on the motion for a resolution. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Cape.Post Purpose:Croner1060Cystadadministration [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5445):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e7882	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22-26, from the Party of Advancement and the Right. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘Chap.Post Purpose:Croner2450Air Transport Agency [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5450, 5491 and 5603):]] Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘Chap. 5526 Taxes on alcohol item 71 Product tax on spirits, etc. As from 1 July 2000, Decision No 26 November 2000 on the levy on alcohol for budget mines 2000 is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e8103	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, and the Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Chap.Post Purpose:Croner5521Additional value tax and investment levy, etc.:70Tax, increased by 3,296 000 000 from NOK 115 100 000 000 to NOK 118 396 000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e8157	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, and the Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Board of Directors requests the Government to submit proposals for amendments to the rules of the Swedish Social Security Fund so that the Swedish Social Security Fund can invest in non-listed shares in Norwegian.’ Here the Progress Party has announced its support.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e8175	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14-19, from the Party of Advancement, Right and the representative Steinar Bastesen. Proposal No. 14 sounds: «Chap.Post Purpose:Croner5521Additional value tax and investment levy, etc.:70 Fee, increased by 3,200 000 000 from NOK 115 100 000 000 to NOK 118 300 000 0005536 Fee on motor vehicles, etc.71 One-off charge for motor vehicles, etc., is increased by 866 000 000 from NOK 7 898 000 000 to NOK 8 764 000 0005542.:70Features of mineral oil, reduced by 20 000 000 from NOK 345 000 000 to NOK 325 000 0005543Environmental taxes on mineral products etc.:71Sulphur charge, reduced by 78 000 000 from NOK 235 000 to NOK 157 000’» Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘Chap. 5521 VAT and investment taxes, etc. Item 70.1 Investment levy on hydropowerFrom 1 January 2000, the decision of the Storting on the investment levy on hydropower for the 2000 budgetary period is amended as follows:Chapter II, Section 12 of the Decision is replaced by the following:No levy shall be paid on specified investments, etc. in wind power plants, bioenergy plants and heat pumps. The same applies to district heating, tidal, hydropower, solar and geoheating systems.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit as soon as possible proposals for an investment tax exemption for all power generation and to the State budget for 2001 proposals for the removal of the investment tax.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘Chap. 5542 Fee on mineral oil, etc. Item 70 mineral oil duty As from 1 July 2000, the Stortinget Decision of 26 November 1999 on the base duty on fuel oil is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e8345	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Left and the representative Steinar Bastesen. Proposal No. 12 sounds: «Cap.PostObjective:Croner191Human rights, humanitarian aid and refugee measures70Aid to human rights, humanitarian aid and refugee measures can be transferred, reduced by 275 000 000 from DKK 1 528 000 000 to DKK 1 253 000 000673Agreements for disabled people65Psychiatric persons with security sentences can be transferred, increased by 16 000 000 from NOK 29 000 000 to NOK 45 000 0001107. [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4760)]] Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals in the 2001 State Budget to exempt from investment tax the upgrading and efficiency of existing hydropower plants.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e8477	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10 and 11, from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 10 sounds: «Chap.Post Purpose:Croner844Cash Support:70Contributions, may be used under cap. 856 items 60, the estimate is reduced by 40 000 000 from NOK 2 787 114 000 to NOK 2 747 114 000845Children's allowances:70Additional allowances, reduced by 45 000 000 from NOK 12 474 000 to NOK 12 429 000 0002650Sickness benefits:70Sickness benefits for employees, etc., the estimate is increased by 787 000 000 from NOK 17 629 000 to NOK 18 416 000» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘Child-back kits The majority agrees that, with effect from 1 July 2000, the Riksstrøgdeverket complies with the Act of 24 October 1946 No. 2 on child benefit, Section 2, first paragraph, can pay child allowances of the following amounts per year: for each child between 1 and 3 years old, a supplement is provided in the child benefit, the so-called child allowance, at NOK 7 884 per year. The supplement is provided from the month after the child reaches the age of 1, up to and including the month before the child reaches the age of three.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e8597	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Socialist Left Party and the representative of Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: «Chap.Post Purpose:Croner2445State Building [[(see section 4.4). cap. 5445):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e8652	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-8, from the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Center Party and the Left. Proposal No. 5 sounds: «Chap.Post Purpose:Croners239Other objectives in secondary education60The lending scheme for school books in secondary school is reduced by 100 000 000from DKK 100 000 000 to DKK 01591Work market measures [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4618):]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals for a contingency plan for the research appropriations to ensure that Norway reaches at least the average OECD level in five years. The roadmap will be presented in the 2001 State budget.’» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government is asking that, as part of the strategy to strengthen Norwegian research over the next five-year period, a significant increase in the fund's capital be made available to the Fund for Research and Innovation, based on the assumptions underlying the establishment of the Fund, as set out below. St. pp. [[1998 - 1999]] No 67 Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to submit its assessment of the Hervik Committee’s proposal to the Storting as soon as possible. It is assumed that the Stortinget will be given the opportunity to consider concrete measures in the context of the examination of proposals for the 2001 government budget.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e8771	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: «Chap.Post Purpose:Crones1371Establishment of the Post Norway BA:70 Restructural grants, granted at 200000000» [[NY]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e8817	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from Christian People's Party, Right, Center Party, Left and Representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: «Chap.Post Purpose:Croner294Circular administration [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3294)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e8869	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: «Chap.Post Purpose:Croner500Communal and Regional Department [[(see section 4.4). cap. 4590):]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e8996	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from Christian People's Party, Right, Center Party, Socialist Left, Left and Representative Steinar Bastesen. The proposal reads as follows: «Cape.PostObjective:Croner1582Development of the Fornebu area:35Reallocation of land to national IT and knowledge centres, may be transferred, reduced by 242 500 000 from NOK 242 500000 to NOK 0»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e9053	In addition to a chapter under proposal No. 27 of which there is not yet a vote, there remains a proposal from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, proposal No. 69, and this will be voted on in connection with the draft decision of the Committee. Now we're going to vote over the committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e10705	The President would like to make a remaining minority proposal here. That is proposal No. 27, from the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Left and the representative Steinar Bastesen, and applies to Cape. 463. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Chap.Post Purpose:Croner463Data Protection [[(see section 4.4). cap. 3463)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e10749	The Progress Party, the Right and the Socialist Left have indicated support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e11277	To the cap. 572 a correction must be made as a result of the fact that the size of a previous treatment has already taken decisions affecting this chapter. The correct thing must be to hijack. 572 item 60 shall be increased by NOK 43 900 000, from NOK 15 628 643 000 to NOK 15 672 543 000.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e11698	Under the hood. 730 also needs to be corrected for the same reason as under cover. 572. The amendment here is that the proposal for allocation under heading 60 is deleted. It is voted over by the rest of the posts. 730, i.e. items 61, 62 and 64.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e17304	It is voted first over point B, as the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left have asked to vote against, then over points A, C and D.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e18556	Here the Labour Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e18599	There is still to be a vote on proposal No. 69, from the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government, when implementing the adopted laws on the provision of labour and private employment services from 1 July 2000, requests the Government to authorise the Ministry of Labour and Administration for a limited period of time to start selling payment services at the same time, including the provision of labour, directly from aetat to end-users. The government is requested to provide the Stortinget with the final organisation of these services in connection with the 2001 government budget. ‘... This proposal is related to the decision which has now been taken at the time of suspension L. The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e18617	Then, after the President's calculations, we were to finish voting on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e18653	During the debate, Siv Jensen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit the necessary legislative amendments so that the company tax previously applied to the municipalities again becomes municipal.’ Alternatively, this proposal will be replaced by the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e18692	During the debate, Siv Jensen put forward a proposal in four points on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. The majority asks the Government to close down the State Bank Investment Fund. 2nd@item: inlistbox The paper asks the Government to facilitate the sale of government's bank shares by private professional actors.3. The Board of Directors requests the Government to transfer the State’s holding of 1/3 of the DnB to the Swedish Public Security Fund, but so that the State retains a so-called ‘golden share’ that ensures veto in the event of a change in the statutes.4. The government requests that former private shareholders, who were cancelled in the context of the banking crisis, receive an economic compensation from the government calculated separately for the shareholders of the credit fund and DnB based on a calculation of the state's gain on the sale of the credit fund and the DnB share's share's worth on the transfer to the public funds.» The right has announced that they want to vote for point 1. First, there is a vote on point 1 of the proposal, then on the other points.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e18742	The vote will take place on the proposal from Mr Kenneth Svendsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 8 June 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote legislative proposals to equalise listed and unlisted options with regard to tax treatment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e18763	The vote will take place on the proposal from Mr Kenneth Svendsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 8 June 2000: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals for changes in the taxation of options in employment so that the benefit of share options granted is calculated in exercise. However, the possibility of postponing the tax on the shares is granted for sale.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e18777	President! I could not vote. I also raised my hand to say that I voted incorrectly in the previous case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e18784	The Bastisen wanted to vote in favour of case No. 10 and counter to case No. 11th@item: inlistbox Is that what the Bastisen means to convey?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e18787	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e18792	Then the president shouldn't go so fast that the Bastisen doesn't get this. The figures are corrected in case No. 10 to 75 votes against and 34 votes in favour. In Case No. 11 is corrected to 76 votes against and 34 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e18801	The vote will take place on the proposal from Mr Kenneth Svendsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 8 June 2000: ‘The decrease asks the Government to submit proposals for changes in the taxation of options so that the benefit of the option is calculated proportionately over the period it builds up. This means that employers’ taxes and taxes are calculated as if the benefit of the option were paid evenly over the period of the option and not only during the year of the option’.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e18818	A vote is taken on the proposal by Mr Øystein Djupedal, on behalf of the Socialist Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 8 June 2000: ‘The Government is asking for a new issue to be addressed by the Government on options in employment, where social and business conditions are highlighted.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e18833	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 8 June 2000: ‘The Council asks the Government, in the context of the 2001 State Budget, to present an assessment of any change in the option tax for further strengthening options as a means of promoting healthy business development and co-ownership.’ The Labour Party and the Socialist Left have here announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e18874	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr John I. Alvheim, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 13 June 2000: ‘The decision asks the Government to contribute to the transformation of all public hospitals into public limited liability companies.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e18891	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 13 June 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up proposals for amendments to the Law on County Hospital Companies so that the form of association may also be used by the municipal hospital company for hospitals which have two or more counties as owners.’ The parties behind this proposal are the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e18910	The vote will take place on the proposal from Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 13 June 2000: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with a notification in which an equal payment replaces the current legislation on maternity and adoption benefits.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e18927	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Ågot Valle, on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 13 June 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals for amendments to Chapter 14 of the Law on People’s Rights in order to ensure that mother and father are treated in the same way as birth money. This implies that a working father shall be entitled to maternity benefits on the basis of his or her own earnings in accordance with the law on social security, irrespective of the dispositions of his or her mother before and after birth.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e18959	The vote will take place on the proposal by Mr Jan Simonsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 13 June 2000: ‘The Government is asking the Government to draw up and launch an offer to convicted sexual offenders under reconciliation/security for voluntary chemical castration and to provide guidance on how such treatment can be carried out.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e18976	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Jan Simonsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 13 June 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that child abuse should lead to the loss of a position involving contact with children.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e18993	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Jan Simonsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 13 June 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals that allow persons convicted of serious sexual assault against minors to be required to undergo medical treatment before they leave prison after an end of residence/detention.’ [[throwing]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e19010	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Jan Simonsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 13 June 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the necessary legislative changes or to implement regulatory changes so that persons convicted of serious sexual assault against minors lose access to prison leave if they are not subject to medical treatment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e19027	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 13 June 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to present the outcome of the investigation on the need for treatment of persons convicted of serious sexual offences and to carry out an evaluation of trials of voluntary hormone treatment for sexual offenders convicted of the most serious forms of sexual assault.’ All parties, except the Advance Party, are behind this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e19035	Since our proposals have been dropped, we can support the proposals in Case No. 25 and 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e19051	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 13 June 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that as a general rule child abuse should lead to the loss of a position involving contact with children.’ All parties support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e19068	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 13 June 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals for a ban on the public display of naked pictures or sexual images, which are suitable for raising advocacy.’ The Labour Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party are behind this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e19087	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Arne Lyngstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Right, the Centre Party and the Left, transmitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 13 June 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for a correction mechanism in order to increase the predictability of the municipality in setting up private schools.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party will also support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e19095	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e19113	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party for the Advancement Party, submitted by Mr Ursula Evje, on the proposal from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 13 June 2000: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit a notification of changes in teacher training. The changes shall relate to knowledge of prevention of anxiety by the use of different methods according to the specific nature of the individual child. Methodological knowledge shall also be developed to resolve disagreements leading to the use of violent methods in school.The new disciplines are assumed to be of such a nature that they can be evaluated and modified by simple means if the evaluation reveals weaknesses in relation to legitimacy based on ethics and credibility.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e19132	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party for the Advancement Party, submitted by Mr Ursula Evje, on the proposal from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 13 June 2000: ‘The Government is asking the Government to implement human rights in Norwegian training legislation as soon as possible, in order to meet Norway’s international obligations and § 110c of the Constitution.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e19149	The vote will take place on behalf of the Party for the Advancement Party, submitted by Mr Ursula Evje, on the proposal from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 13 June 2000: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for an overall training law providing freedom and equality of opportunity by establishing and using alternative qualitative training provision regardless of life views and alternative pedagogics. The key element must be Norway’s desire to comply with and implement human rights in all Norwegian legislation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e19167	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 13 June 2000: ‘The State asks the Government to assume that the State will fully finance the additional costs of the county councils relating to the adult right to secondary education.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e19182	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 13 June 2000: ‘The government asks the Government to present a case in which one discusses the causes and consequences of school leaving. In this case, measures should be promoted to support the primary school in a viable local environment.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-16.ana.ud186e19328	Before the meeting is closed, the President will draw attention to the resumption of the Grand Duchy's negotiations on Thursday 28 September at 9.30 a.m. 13 with a meeting in Odelstinget and immediately afterwards meeting in Stortinget. Since this is the last ordinary grand meeting before the holiday, the President will take the opportunity to thank everyone for their good cooperation and for the efforts that have been made this spring, and wish all the co-representatives, the members of the Government, the employees of the Storting, the press department and all the others who otherwise have their daily work related to the Storting, a really good and healthy summer.
