ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e37	The representatives Berit Brørby, Per-Kristian Foss, Lars Gunnar Lie and John I. Alvheim, who has been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: André Kukkestad and Rikke Lind For the Province of Buskerud: Unni Hennum Lie For the province of Hordaland: Eirik Langeland Mountain For More and Romesdal counties: Kjell Terje Fevåg and Modulf Aukan For Uppland State: Terje Stenseng For Oslo: Sissel Dagslet For the Rogaland County: Ingrid Fisaa For Telemark County: Kari Lise Holmberg
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e106	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3382]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e120	At the request of the Municipal Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 45 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The working party 10 minutes, the other groups 5 minutes each. In addition, the President will propose that there is no possibility of a reply after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e129	A comprehensive municipal committee asked for a broad review of asylum and immigration policy when examining the 2000 budget. The Committee was particularly concerned about the discovery of bottlenecks and the need to review compensation schemes. Such a broad review will necessarily take time. We can all agree that too many refugees and asylum seekers are long in reception. This is not the way we want it, and therefore the problem is given a lot of attention in the settings of the Equalizer message, which is given this week. However, we must recognise that we have seen a significant increase in the number of asylum seekers to Norway in recent years, and that this is one of the reasons for the major problems of finding sufficient places in the municipalities for housing. The fact that it takes a long time to deal with an asylum application and thereby clarify whether a stay or leave the host and the country is not unilaterally negative. It is about having the opportunity to appeal and to provide new, relevant information. It's about respect for international human rights, and it's about refugee rights. The fact that many then remain in reception long after they have been resident in the country is not easy to defend. For this reason, the Municipal Committee wishes to focus on housing and labour integration. The Committee expects the Government to carry out a thorough review of municipal expenditure on housing in the State budget for 2001. The proposer wishes to amend the rules to allow asylum-seekers with a work permit to be offered labour market measures and training before the asylum application has been completed. Asylum seekers who are waiting for their application to be processed and settled have the opportunity to obtain a work permit once the identity has been established. Through correspondence with the Ministry of Labour and Administration, we have been told that asylum seekers with a temporary work permit are already covered by the instruments of the labour law. There is nothing in the legislation to prevent this. Asylum seekers who have received a temporary work permit may be registered as job seekers and be provided with intermediary assistance and benefit from labour market measures. It is gratifying that the Directorate of Labour has now signalled that action should actually be taken against this group. The Committee stresses in its recommendation that priority should be given to the use of funds for labour market measures for persons who have received a positive decision on the residence permit and thus general access to work in Norway, without prejudice to those who have only a temporary work permit and have not yet received a final examination of the application. This will help to make municipalities settle immigrants and thus shorten their stay at state receptions. We expect the Government, in its informed review of integration policy, to address these issues, including the possibility and possible measures for asylum seekers and refugees to be rapidly offered language training and the possibility of paid work. Let me mention that there are already signals from the Labour Directorate to the Labour Market Assembly that emphasis should be placed on entering the receptions to record competence, to clarify individual needs, and to provide information and guidance. Getting started early in working life and language training is important for a good integration into society. Individual competence is strengthened and one avoids inaction, isolation and inaction. The growing shortage of labour that we are experiencing now only shows that there are enough tasks to solve, but lack of people. Let me say a little bit about the Labour Party's view of the problem we are dealing with here today. Good refugee and asylum policy is for the Workers' Party about solidarity and respect for international human rights. For the Workers' Party, good refugee and asylum policies are also good employment policies. It is worrying that an overweight of the proportion of the unemployed is those with a migrant background, refugees and asylum seekers. We have a job to do to get the most out of work. We must seek to distort the income of newly arrived refugees and immigrants from passive support to active action. Work shall pay off. Language training, work training and employment services are all important components here. These are important components in order to achieve the objective that the stay at reception must be as short as possible. In the revised national budget presented by the Stoltenberg Government this spring, the Workers' Party is proposing increased appropriations to the UDI to ensure faster settlement, so now it is up to the other parties to show that they want to prioritise this equally high.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e167	In this setting, the majority say that there is a hope for a faster settlement of refugees in the municipalities. What is the main problem in this way is that it takes too much time to deal with asylum applications. When it takes six months, maybe seven-eight months, to get an answer, and then one should have the possibility of a possible complaint, it says that one might be up to two years in an asylum reception before one is outsourced or sent home to their home country. This is where the Government should install some resources, if one wants to install resources. In order to get the current status of asylum recipients under control, the Government should put in place measures to speed up the handling of asylum applications. It must be possible to do this in two or three months, so people don't wait, it would be on a yes or a no to stop in Norway. Another thing that the committee also says is that the municipalities do not see themselves financially able to accept refugees. No, it's because one probably has not regulated the integration proposal, and integration is a failure. The Progress Party has always said that the State should assume financial responsibility for refugees, immigrants and asylum seekers to this country, not that it should be a five-year rule. It is a national task for the state of Norway to accept refugees and asylum seekers on behalf of the world community. And then it should also be the task of the State to cover the costs incurred by the state of Norway for the reception of refugees and asylum seekers. In this way, I am overestimated that there would also have been a little more work to achieve a better integration policy than today, so that those who were then suspended in Norway, and unemployed, would have been put under a little pressure, and that there would have been a little greater demands for them to get into paid work and stand on their own, as most others have to do if they are healthy and industrious – that is, of course, a commitment. But we have had a failure of integration policy, there is no doubt about it. Even the case spokesperson was concerned when he said that the instigation of asylum seekers is so great that it creates major problems. That is perhaps also the background for Document No. The 8th proposal. That is why I am pleased that the Progress Party has now also had another impact on the Storting when it comes to integration policy, and that is that we should have a refugee and immigrant bill. A joint committee is now asking for the Government to present it in the context of the 2001 government budget. That is why, in the Progress Party, we are particularly pleased that we have been given the idea that we should have such an account to show what costs are in the reception, so that not least the municipalities can get the right transfers from the state when it is due to the costs that the municipalities will have with the refugees and asylum seekers when they come to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e176	It is correct that an overall committee refers to decisions in budget revenue. S. No 5 and in this context, it is expected that: ‘The Government undertakes a thorough review of municipal expenditure on the settlement of refugees in the State budget for 2001, based on the desire to increase the rate of residence’. The Christian People's Party has thus not gone into the proposals of the Progress Party on any refugee accounts, just so that it is quite clear. There are two different things of being seen with the eyes of the Christian People's Party. We are pleased with the treatment as Document No. The 8 has been given. A joint committee is concerned that we have to do something about the problems we have experienced in that too many people stay too long at the receptions. We share, together with the others, the view that it is important for the labour market seat to enter and both register competence, clarify individual needs and provide information and guidance. And together with an overall committee, we want to give priority to the use of funds for labour market measures for people with a residence permit and therefore with general access to work in Norway. However, it is important, as the Committee has also stressed, that temporary workers are covered by the instruments of the labour law. A majority have also expressed their satisfaction at the non-obstacle of the legislation, but refer to the practice that, unfortunately, there are many who remain passive in reception. Against this background it is that the Christian People's Party, together with the Central Party and the Socialist Left, now believes that an immediate action must be taken and propose it: ‘The Government asks the Government to take active action and work for asylum seekers and refugees to replace passive payments as far as possible.’ No one in the committee wants such inaction. We have visited asylum recipients many times earlier in our travels, looking at this, having heard about this and saying that something has to be done. It is therefore time to present proposals for active measures now. I take on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party up proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e197	The representative Ivar Østberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e200	All good accounting practices indicate that all known expenditure and revenue should be recorded. I can't see that that's what we're asking from the Municipal Committee of Storting: to have an account made of refugees and immigrants. What we're asking for is to know about the government's coverage of the expenses that municipalities specifically have for integration, in fact, is large enough. And that's something quite different than an accounting. For example, we pray. not to identify the incomes of these refugees and immigrants actually give to the community in which they live. We've done it once before. The calculation exercise was done before the previous notification of refugee and integration policy on the basis of refugee figures held by the representative Hedstrom of the Progress Party, who had a completely different definition of refugee and immigrant accounts than the one held by the representative Lodve Solholm. That matter has been set aside. I see it more as an attempt to dampen down the progress party's own message on immigration and refugee issues than what this matter is really about. The size has repeatedly addressed issues related to the poor functioning of integration policies during this ageing period. I see it as a broad political consensus in the Stortinget. In May 1998, we discussed a Document No. Eight proposals, supported by representatives from the Workers' Party, aimed at initiating attempts related to other ways of pursuing integration policies, rather than generally at entrusting them to the municipalities – from passive schemes to more active payments linked to some form of introductory benefit or a benefit for combining education and training. As far as I understand it, it's approx. Sixteen different trials going on. It's important trials. Already at that time, the Right signaled that the Committee might have to say clearly that this was the way to go for integration policy. When the majority didn't want to say that this should be a main line forward, but would see the results of the trials, we accepted it. We also see that there is a need to make some boundaries related to what an introduction aid is, because it is a concept that does not exist. For this reason, a wide-ranging legislative range has also been reduced in the context of the so-called Equalisation Communication, which will be dealt with next week in Stortinget. There are issues about clarifying the relationship to taxation, employment and other laws and regulations. During the May 1998 session, a unanimous committee also raised the question of speeding up the granting of work permits to refugees and immigrants who are in reception of asylum but who are clearly not in a position to be sent from Norway. In a year's time, there was an easier access to work permits for people who had not been told if they had a residence permit in Norway. A few weeks ago, Stortinget also dealt with a broader legal framework to grant such a work permit. So a lot has happened in this area in recent years. The proposals originally made in Document No. The 8 proposal, also with regard to the first proposal, proves to be covered in the activity already taking place, that there is no contradiction between the use of labour market measures and the granting of a temporary work permit. Nevertheless, we believe it is important, within a limited framework of labour market measures, to give priority to those who have obtained a residence permit in Norway. For those we know to be integrated, it is important to get integration quickly, so that they are prioritised in relation to labour market measures, and even if people who may not be allowed to reside in Norway in the long term, they should not necessarily go on labour market measures during that period, but have the opportunity to work if they get a job. But we don't necessarily have to perform qualification measures for all of them. With regard to the second item included in original Document No. The 8 proposal, in the opinion of the Right, fits into a budgetary context. I'm pointing out that we proposed 50 million. kr more for Norwegian training than the majority chose to adopt. We may well experience that there are parts other than the integration grant that are the most important problem areas today, where municipalities are undercompensated, and in particular that this concerns Norwegian training. But we believe that when we have asked from Stortinget for such a review, we should also have enough respect for not three months afterwards in a way to decide that we do not need a review in order to adopt a new principle or to decide to increase these arrangements. We think we should take the time to get a proper document on the table, so we can do a good job of handling the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e215	Is it for the benefit of individuals as a whole to remain passive for a long time in a state refugee shelter? The answer is no. It applies both if the waiting time is relieved of rejection of asylum applications and return journeys, and if the result would be a permanent suspension in Norway. It is very important that a range of measures work around the individual. The response from the Minister of Labour and Administration shows that there are currently no legal barriers to involvement from, for example: A-deposit in a waiting time. When the Equalisation message now shows that there is a difference in income between non-Western immigrants and others, tell us something about the need for additional efforts in relation to today. The Central Party believes that there is a need for both information on the legislation we have, and a strengthening of cooperation between the A-etat, reception, business and working life and the surrounding environment. Here, an offensive is already needed, even if I want to stress that we are also meeting the broad review that the Government is currently working on. I take a clear distance from Lodve Solholm's interpretation of that passage. Qualifications and languages are decisive for people to have the ability to work in a job. Probably it's more the last time than the first one is the problem. We believe that the qualification aid currently under assessment will be important. There is also a need to look at other already established schemes and expand them, for example: wages and salaries of enterprises and work with assistance. SV takes in Document No. The 8-proposal for what is now happening when it concerns urbanisation in municipalities and what the integration approach means. It is sad, but a fact that the economy here has a lot to say in many municipalities, and it should stimulate joint efforts also in relation to the framework of the municipal sector. In 1999, the rate of integration increased and increased in 2000. We could have voted in favour of a proposal to increase it now, but we thought it was a little unnecessary advance on a budgetary process. We expect the government itself to follow it up. Let me also mention a proposal in the Equalisation Communication that seems to be widely supported, and which it is important from the Government's side to realize quickly, that is, the proposal for a separate social welfare scheme for people with too short butids in Norway to get full rights in the public interest. There is an increasing number of older refugees/migrants in municipalities, and the costs that some municipalities have to bear in that context also appear when looking at the possibilities of busing more people. Staging is crucial both in relation to adding in different contexts and not least in the different local environments. There are a number of organisations involved. In particular, it is important to continue to play on, cooperate with and stimulate the various cultural activities that exist locally. If we're smart about our own identity, it also gives security to meet others with respect and an open hold.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e234	I will be able to record SV's suggestions in the setting. This proposal that we are examining today, which I have been promoting, came both because there was an urgent need to put in place active measures for asylum seekers who have been waiting for a long time in reception, and because there are now so many in reception. The settlement in the municipalities is so slow that there is talk on the UDI side about forced residence. Increasing unemployment and more coerciveness are negative and only suitable for creating more conflict and more problems. You don't have time to wait for the overall review, because the situation is acute and something needs to be done. Sitting in reception for months and years without meaningful work or training offers is devastating. The fact that it is now open to granting work permits to those who have a known identity is good, but many people need it for the schooling and training that labour market measures could give them. The rules for the use of the means of action have now been changed, in line with the proposal submitted. That's good. The problem is that there are few resources left when this group is to be given its last priority and everyone else is to be given their first priority. Volume's too low. If the change in the rules is to take effect in practice, the a-tea must be told to enter the receptions actively and training and action must be offered immediately. SV has considered that it should be a short period before this offer is made. In general, we have thought that four weeks is an appropriate deadline, but in the proposal we have set the deadline of nine weeks, the same as the authorities have allowed themselves to deal with such applications. Several research reports have seized both the UDI and the authorities in almost underestimating refugees in reception. The SINTEF report of 1999 describes the situation so that people have to choose between food and medicine. We know that people can live for years in a small room without having money either for a bus pass or for a dentist. It's only when they take the problems out and they get effect out that we get political attention around it. It costs money to empty the receipts. Municipalities with a deficit of NOK 12 billion are not in line to accept, for example. a war-damaged, familyless young boy with a lot of behavioral problems. It's no secret that no one wants to give him the settlement. The large local government deficit is not just about discrimination. For municipalities, this is the enormous responsibility that comes with e.g.: the settlement of single minor asylum seekers. The fear of failure and of not being able to maintain the necessary and proper expertise is great. It is important to respect the fact that the task may seem inconvenient in a difficult situation. Creating a positive attitude towards addressing more tasks in a situation where almost all municipalities have problems meeting budgeters is not easy. There is a real fear in the municipalities that the refugees will be blamed for the fact that the municipal budgets are not going to go together, and that it can gloat under negative attitudes towards refugees and make the settlement difficult. The financial risk of receiving persons who have been passive in reception for years is, of course, much greater than that of receiving people who have been trained during waiting time in reception. In the letter to the Municipal Committee of ours, the Government confirms that, for example: the underfinancing of expenditure on education is 260 million. SEK this year and respectively NOK 295, 305 and 315 million. kr in the following years. Only this amounts to DKK 1.1 billion in sub-financing. It is true that the proposal also mentions the integration grant. But the proposal, as it is put forward, is about increasing the government's expenditure coverage of municipal expenditure, i.e., that one could, for example, increase it. should be able to look at expenditure on education and to look at the rate of receiving unaccompanied minor asylum-seekers, who we know very often need to be offered in line with the cost of having people in treatment under child protection. In this context, the Government of the Municipal Economic Proposition has stated that the municipal reimbursement of municipal institutions is to be DKK 22 000 for children under the protection of children, except for lone minor asylum seekers. For them, it only has to be NOK 11000, because that's what the municipality gets in reimbursement. It says a little bit about how to kind of do a problem that's much bigger than what you get to cover. I hear that the majority is concerned about the same thing. I perceive the situation so that immediate action is necessary before we get the major review.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e257	Karin Andersen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e260	I think it is a good idea – and I believe that it is possible to implement it – that we are entering the refugee recipients as early as possible with the resources of the labour market seat, and are assessing the individual's opportunities and competences and then trying to tailor, in connection with Norwegian training, the complementary training that enables us, first of all, to facilitate the situation of the individual refugee in reception, and, second, to meet important labour market needs, both in today's and future Norway. But to do this, it's not enough just to have rules. We must also have the means to implement it. And if that's what I hear rumors about, what some parties in the Grand Duchy intend to do in relation to the budget appropriations for the Labour Market Act and in relation to the means of action in the revised national budget, this debate will be completely out of date. Because then you talk about possibilities that don't exist. In that case, not only will it be to bring the refugees, the municipalities and the labour market seat to the fore, but it will also be necessary to meet a reality after the treatment of the revised national budget as the individual central bank representative – and the government – will have to take responsibility for it. Therefore, I agree with the description of the options we have, provided that the instruments exist. We see that there are so many resources related to the basic education that a number of these already have from their home countries, that it will be possible to do something much faster and much better to adapt them to the Norwegian system. Then, of course, you have the assessment that the Committee has been right about, which is how long you have to wait. Do you have to wait until you know for sure that they will be in Norway, or do you have to go in earlier? I believe that those who are going to be sent back obviously should not be approached with measures, and then you have to make an assessment, a balance, of how early the measures are to be applied in relation to the remaining ones. But anyway, the best thing would be to try to get creative activity in the time they sit in the reception, and, I would almost say, no lessons are wasted whether it's to be used here or in the refugee's homeland. But of course we have to evaluate this on a case-by-case basis. I take note of what the committee says about which groups should be given priority, but I repeat: this is true if there is something to prioritize and we have some means to use it. I have to tell you about this because there has to be a relationship between what you're saying, and what you're willing to do as an instrument to solve this problem. We cannot take responsibility for implementing a policy to which Stortinget does not grant money. There must therefore be a link between words and action, and we shall see if it is possible to realise the good intentions that lie in this committee position and in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e274	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e277	There is no doubt that the government shares the concern that we perceive that a so-called unanimous greatness has: it is worrying that there are over 14 000 people in reception, that very many of them are sitting there for too long, and that some of these are children who obviously should have been elsewhere. I also agree that it takes too long to deal with asylum applications. That's why the government has proposed to strengthen the UDI, and we hope for that. As you know, we have also proposed increasing the provision of Norwegian training in the revised national budget, to which it is, of course, also possible to agree. It's a very big problem, as several of the speakers have said, that we can't get refugees and immigrants as quickly as we should. This is also taking the Government seriously, and therefore, in these days, we are holding conferences with all the municipalities of the country to find out how to make such settlements faster. All of these conferences will be held during the month we are now inside. We will, as Stortinget is also familiar with, come back with a big message early in the fall where we will have a greater review of this problem and make some concrete suggestions on what to do. And I agree with the majority in the committee that it is very important that we make arrangements that allow one to go from passivity to activity. There is also a background to the Government's proposal to extend the experimental systems we already have, where one can combine work with language training. We consider this to be very effective in learning the language, and it will be easier to get a regular job afterwards. So I have to say that if we're going to get this going, which I think most of us agree on, it's important that we have tools at our disposal. Then it is important to stress from the Government, as the Kosmo Council of State also did, that the level of labour market measures we have is essential to put this in place. If we don't manage to maintain it, we can't get it done either, as a far on the way, one-sided growth committee here asks for, namely, to get refugees and to migrate faster out of reception and faster in activity out in the municipalities. I hope we can do it, but that means that we have tools at our disposal, and that we have labour market measures that can be used. If not, this will be a worthless debate, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e290	I share the view of the Labour Party that the means of action need to be increased – and that is not where the disagreement between us lies either. We need more money, and it's not supposed to be on SV. Kosmo State Council says it's possible to make this work better, in a more functional way, so you get people out to work faster. But the government then has the opportunity to take the initiative in this and the sea propose such redeployments in the revised national budget, which they have now submitted, and argue and show that there is actually a better way to do so. I am a little surprised that the government has not done so when they have such good, strong and clear views of this as what we hear they have today. My concern is to say that the Government, as I see it, has a maritime responsibility to take the initiative in this matter. Because it is quite clear that many of those who are now in receipt must benefit from the work permit they receive, they must therefore have access to the means of action so that they can get the simplest introduction courses in Norwegian working life and learn the systems here. They might also need a little bit of help in other ways, on the same line with others who need it for other reasons. It's true, as the Kosmo Council of State says, that here we are talking about very large and extensive competences that go free, and that we should have made use of in a completely different way from what we've done today. So to this with how we deal so that the municipalities can see for themselves and be able to do something about the problem – because I think it's mostly about it, that they just don't know their poor advice. My opinion is that there's a piece left before you've realized that here, for example, it's here. sub-schemes where we can go out quite quickly and say that these schemes are fully funded. In particular, I would like to emphasise again the arrangements that go to education and education, because they are so incredibly important when we want people to go to work. Finally, I would also like to point out that one of the reasons why it is difficult to emigrate from reception is that there is a large lack of housing, and that the housing is partly very expensive. That's why it's important to form a majority in the Biggest so that we can speed up the construction of cheap rental homes. It could help a lot on the road, because it would also help municipalities to reduce the cost of what is the starting point for housing, namely housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e301	We have now had posts from two state councils that, according to my concepts, strike themselves on the mouth, at least in relation to the Labour Party's policy at the moment. What has been inserted from the Right in our alternative proposal for a revised national budget is a cut in labour market measures corresponding to a half-year effect of the increase introduced by a compromise between the Labour Party and the intermediate parties in their budgetary options. That increase was earmarked for use in the yard industry and the maritime environments in the West. The whole argument was related to it. It is not a matter of means being used today, for example. is used for measures relating to asylum seekers, or which should have been used for them, unless the Workers' Party has its own promises of what that money should have been spent on, which in that case are incorrect. At the same time, it is well known in the United Kingdom that in the report of the difference, which will be considered next week, the Labour Party is committed to cleaning up the youth guarantee for young people aged between 20 and 24 – a group that is largely quite well placed in the labour market, at least in relation to immigrants and refugees. This means that the Labour Party prioritises new groups within the labour market measures. That's why I think both councils should think a little bit about it. It is, of course, possible to give priority to the funds available, rather than to say that the weakest groups are going to lose. The Labour Party is therefore involved in the creation of two groups, which are relatively resource-intensive, namely those in the Western shipbuilding industry, which are highly skilled workers, and young people between 20 and 24 years of age, who are to be given priority in the labour market measures, while they are not talking one more word about asylum seekers. In this case, if, within the framework of today's labour market measures, we do not give priority to others, for example. In fact, the youth guarantee and the yard industry and the maritime environment mean that we are left with several measures available to asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e308	What got me to take the floor was the Minister of Labour and Administration's outcome here in relation to the size of the labour market resources. I think we should come back to that in the context of the review of the revised budget here too. But it's a fact that that per. dates are unused funds that were put into an exceptional situation and do not appear to be used for the intended purpose. In my state, for example. there is an involvement, a discussion between municipalities and the labour market seat when it concerns the shipbuilding industry. What surprises me the most is the commitment of the Kosmo Council for the modernisation and renewal of the public sector on the one hand, where both he and his colleagues have raised a number of changes, and then the defence that he has today for the exact amount of labour market funds that the Government has put in. So, from the government's point of view, it has been discussed by both larger municipalities, larger municipalities, a number of private solutions as alternatives to municipal services, and so it is that when it comes to the labour market seat, I have to understand Kosmo that there is no improvement potential, there is no possibility of prioritising a stronger commitment to refugees and asylum seekers. I ask the Council of State to clarify its position.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e315	Of course, we are in order to exploit the efficiency potential of the labour market. It was just supposed to be missing. But we are also in order to achieve the employment policy objectives set by the Storting. That's our first priority. It was just supposed to be missing. Is that not what the Government is for — implementing the labour policy objectives within the allocation frameworks set by the Storting? And then it is not that you can compete with the labour market measures and the amount of them every six months and believe that the labour market seat will be able to revoke all the commitments on price offers that you have given, among other things. for the enhancement of competence in the offshore sector, without having consequences. It is therefore necessary to complete the courses and measures of competence and the labour market measures that have been launched and promised. You get to implement them, and then you see how much money you have left for the rest of the year. And as I said, if what goes on is true -- I don't know if it's true -- there won't be much money to take action for, either for one or the other at the end of this year. There is a consequence of the budgetary decision taken by the Stortinget in the autumn. We do of course as the Storting says. I'm just saying that then the discussion must be in the real world. You can't pretend to be prioritizing all good purposes, as it tends to sound like this, without saying that this has to be put into context. Of course, we have to implement what the Storting decides, as long as the Storting assumes responsibility for the consequences of its decisions. Here, in my opinion, it is quite obviously possible to do something more. We spent only one month in government before the revised national budget was presented, so there was neither time nor opportunity to take the major review of labour market policy. We based ourselves on small adjustments to implement what the Storting decided on the budget of the year, and what was contained in the budgetary agreement with the intermediate parties from the budget of the year. It will therefore be possible to give priority within the external framework, while at the same time working on how to turn labour market policies into next year, for which there will be proposals in the context of the budget. And then I say, there's a clear link between the ambitions you have and the means you make available, and the skills you can afford to have in the labour market. Because it's clear you're going to have people to carry out the analyses, and you're going to have people working with the individual to achieve the results. And this has a certain price.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e322	It's interesting to note what the Council of State is now saying, that one should not "kingse" with things every six months. It could be tempted to mention how the Government has the king with the reimbursement scheme for seafarers, which was a framework set to be at least a year, and then the Government in the revised national budget takes these funds away smoothly, which is, to a large extent, a labour market measure to get Norwegian seafarers on Norwegian boats, and to keep Norwegian fleets under Norwegian flag. When I listened to the Kosmo Council, I got a feeling that through the so-called rumors, he got an appropriate chance to hide his own solution when it comes to streamlining and rationalizing. For no one is going to tell me that it is not possible to streamline the labour market seat when it currently has the same number of additions as it had three to four years ago, as it might have been up to 200,000 unemployed. No one should tell me that there is no potential that could also be used within the area we are dealing with here, namely asylum seekers who are staying in Norway. Then I have to say that I have no need to cover for the Progress Party's immigration policy. I believe in this way that there are other parties that need to cover more in relation to their own voters than the Progress Party has. Otherwise, it is interesting to note how all parties – perhaps only SV who are missing – begin to calm down and explain what they mean when the entire committee asks to get an account on the table where at least they will see the costs of immigration, refugee and asylum policy incurred by municipalities. Some people don't call it an accounting unless you include your income. Some people say this is no accounting. No, one can call it what one wants, but what the Progress Party has been asking for for ten years now is to talk on the table so that we can see what the expenses are. We were not the ones who wanted the most when it came to incomes, but we asked to see what it cost. We wanted to see what it cost, so that the municipalities would get a real boost in relation to the expenses they had. But if the income doesn't include, if there's only half a bill, then I'll say it's at least one step in the straight path.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e333	I have to say that as the case rapporteur for this matter, I am a little surprised after a while. After all, there has been a debate on the revised national budget. A very positive attitude to the proposal that SV has put forward here, and that the whole committee was behind, has actually become a debate on how good the different parties are in terms of the constraints they are going to make in the revised national budget. Because when the Right says that if we agree to cut out the youth reform in the Cohesion Communication and leave aside taking action in the Western yard industry and things like that, they may well agree that it is not cut off in the revised national budget in relation to reception and asylum seekers and so on, it becomes a bit difficult. I'm disappointed that we got on that track, because this was actually positive at first. The requests made here by the Council of State, that we find the means to implement what is agreed by an overall committee, seem to me to be good. As far as Lodve Solholm and the accounts are concerned, I would just like to make it clear that from the Labour Party and my side there was no accounting, as Lodve Solholm describes it. What he does not say, but as I suppose, is that if an accounting, based on the way the Progress Party sees it, would show that the municipalities have too little money, the Progress Party would not be involved in increasing these funds. They would rather find out that the accounts were too expensive for the municipalities, so that they would not accept refugees. That is what is the starting point for Solholm and the accounting policy of the Progress Party. So I'm a little disappointed that we've gotten on this track, but I hope we can find the necessary means to do what the Committee has favourably set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e342	I am, like the rapporteur, a little surprised and disappointed that this seems to be a somewhat different debate than it should have been. I think the Brustad State Council has clearly underlined and pointed out the unworthiness of the fact that we have asylum seekers and refugees who sit for too long without doing the necessary steps. Then maybe one of the immediate and immediate measures could be that the Kosmo Council of State made sure to cancel the rumors he's obviously based on, and provided the exact knowledge so that we can discuss the same reality, and not just be suggested that we might discuss different realities. It is necessary for the State of the labour market to be clearly informed of the tasks to be performed in relation to our asylum recipients in relation to those who sit there and need activity. I hope the matter gets the positive angle that the rapporteur has put forward and that the committee has asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e349	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next column]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e363	The Committee has brief comments. After the committee was completed, the Government has submitted St.prp. No 79 On consent to ratification of ILO Convention No 182 of 17 June 1999 on the prohibition and immediate abolition of the worst forms of child labour. In addition, on 26 May there was a conference in this house in connection with the decades marking of elections in Burma. At that conference, chaired by the representatives of Blankenburg and Bondevik, attended, among others: Leif Lausund, of the LO, who pointed out that at the ILO conference in June 1999, Burma allowed itself to refute the content of the report of the Commission of Inquiry, and that this led both the labour and employers' side of the ILO to join forces in proposing to withdraw all ILO support for Burma, if it could not be directly linked to the implementation of ILO Convention No. 29. And this was a proposal that got an overwhelming majority. Lausund closed his post with the following invitation: ‘In the light of LO’s assessment, the Norwegian Government should take the initiative to assess relatively quickly the possibilities for the international community to increase sanctions against Burma. It is a fact that the sanctions that have been imposed have been very limited and thus had minimal significance. This relationship has also been criticised by the movement of democracy, where, among other things, Aung San Suu Kyi has called for increased pressure through sanctions.’ Lausund also said: ‘We believe Norway can play a more active and necessary role through such an initiative.’ I would recommend that we all participate in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e382	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see next page]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e390	Storting goes to voting on the issues on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e428	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ivar Østberg on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party proposal No. 2, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to increase the government’s expenditure on municipal expenditure on the settlement of refugees.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e449	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to take active action and work for asylum seekers and refugees to replace passive payments as far as possible.’ The voting boards showed that 76 votes were cast against and 39 votes in favour of the proposal by the Socialist Left Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 13.12.04]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e462	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e469	I could not vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-06-05.ana.ud781e476	Since there are several, the President will take the vote again.
