ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-lower-2.ana.ud2352e34	This setting by the Committee on Energy and the Environment has its background in Document No. 8:29 for 1998-99, which is a proposal promoted by Kenneth Svendsen, Thore Aksel Nistad and Torbjørn Andersen. Let me say, on behalf of the Committee, that the setting has been reviewed by consensus that something has to be done in this area. You can be sure of that, even if it comes out a little bit of different suggestions. But let's start from 1977. Then we got a law of motor travel in the fields and watercourses. The background to this law was that an ever-increasing motorized movement could become a serious environmental problem. The objective of the law was to be able to limit traffic that served recognised utility needs. Furthermore, the law was based on the fact that one was to a large extent to have municipal self-determination in relation to this movement. Today, after ten years of experience, we have only to note that the practice of the law by the municipalities varies considerably. Some municipalities follow a much more liberal practice of the rules than intended, if we look at the background of the law that was passed at the time. By tightening the legislation in 1988, municipal autonomy was replaced by a central rule. One has not been able to regulate in an appropriate way the significant increase in motorised travel in the terrain and watercourses themselves with this conversion. Continuing this development, it is clear that we are far from what was meant by the law, and what is necessary and normal motor travel. We, as legislators, must now, through the law to which I am going to come back, ensure that there is environmental and environmental protection at the bottom of the legislation in this area. The majority note that the following clear leads: there is a need for a number of changes to the current rules in order to clarify the role of the municipality in motor vehicle management that the law should not weaken the consideration of the natural environment, biodiversity, and that well-being must be maintained that the main principle of the law in Section 3 on the prohibition of motor travel must be maintained as a general starting point that municipalities wishing to have restrictive practices must have the opportunity to do so. Other municipalities must be able to organise according to detailed procedures and planning. We see the need to be able to connect the municipal planning of motor travel to the planning and building law. Furthermore, the majority consider it absolutely necessary that the Government, through a message or in another appropriate way, return to the Storting for the necessary cleaning and preparation, so that an unfortunate development in this area does not continue. We also see it as necessary for the government to come back as soon as possible, so that we can get the rules in place before the season starts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-lower-2.ana.ud2352e66	The 1977 Law on Motorways in Lands and Waterways provided for a greater degree of municipal regulation on off-road driving. A reduction in municipal autonomy was achieved by the introduction of a common national regulation of 1988, which replaced the municipal regulations for motor vehicles and which was adjusted somewhat in 1990. The purpose was to grant fewer exemptions for commercial driving and that such driving should be referred to pre-approved hire drivers. The purpose of the proposal is now to restore the authority, granted in accordance with the 1977 law on motor travel in the fields and watercourses, to each municipality and that access to the use of snowmobiles in special open-air and iced watercourses is generally granted. The current system of powers conferred on the State Environmental Protection Department is not suitable for local conditions and local self-government in the municipality, as well as requirements for adaptation and variation, thereby undermining the importance of the law. There are large geographical differences between different parts of the country and also within different parts of the country. In large parts of the country, there is widespread settlement, and there are large distances. This creates a need for motorised off-road movement. Primary industries such as hunting and fishing also create the need for motor transport throughout the year. In addition, I would also like to point out the potential for snowmobile tourism, which has been very successful in both Sweden and Finland. The Progress Party therefore considers that there is a need for a greater degree of regulatory flexibility. We believe that it is easiest for those who live in an area to assess for themselves the need for increased opportunities to travel in the fields and on watercourses. It is the neighbourhood that most easily sees any increased need for motor traffic, or sees the problems of noise and other environmental pressures on the nature of the areas in question. The Progress Party therefore wants some more authority to be restored to the municipalities to regulate the movement of land. The promotion party therefore wants to open up the possibility for each municipality to set up its own specially marked loops for motor travel. These must, of course, be established in cooperation with the landowner. Efforts should also be made to add these loops to areas where the pressures on separately valuable natural areas are minimal. Furthermore, the progress party considers that it should be possible to open up motorised carriageways on forest roads and on iced watercourses where motorboats can be used during the summer. I have to be allowed to remind you that it's usually the Center Party and the Center Parties who cry out most about municipal autonomy, and they want people to live in the countryside. When it comes to practical policy, it is the Progress Party that will give citizens good living conditions and opportunities in District Norway. The case here today is again proof that the centre party and the centre parties do not mean anything specifically by facilitating the edge industries. Then I will finally be allowed to present the proposal that has been included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-lower-2.ana.ud2352e87	The representative of Thore Aksel Nistad has presented the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-lower-2.ana.ud2352e90	I only drew myself to record the proposal from the Right included in the setting. We are pleased that there now appears to be a majority who want to amend the law to ensure greater flexibility in the legislation, and we hope that the majority will draw the necessary consequences from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-lower-2.ana.ud2352e97	Then the representative Jan Tore Sanner drew up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-lower-2.ana.ud2352e100	The law on motor travel in the field is a law that regulates motor travel both in summer and winter, and I am basically positive that we have a strict law. I think it is important to also assess whether these quadruple star cycles, which have now reached a large extent, should be limited, especially on barefield. Traces in ants and in lean terrain remain standing for many years, and I will ask the Minister for the Environment to take it further into consideration. What's for debate today is the use of snowmobiles, and the fact that we've had a strict law, makes us have a certain opportunity for a review and adjustment today. There are now 40 000-50,000 snowmobiles in this country. In South Norway there is very much illegal driving, and probably in areas where the snowmobile would never have been. There are also many people who think that the scooter is not very good to manoeuvre on the public road, but so it's okay to drive. On the other hand, it is designed to run on the terrain, where it is largely prohibited. I think everyone would be well-deserved that it was opened for so-called recreational loops. The snowmobile people would get a loop that is regulated and legal, and the environment and the skiers would drop the scooter. It would also lead to more respect for the law. Many snowmobileers and villagers believe that it is unreasonable for them to be regulated, while boaters can drive by larger and larger boats. Now I don't think it's going to be easy to get a recreational loop in South Norway. First of all, we have many small owners of land that need to be included, and the municipality has to use resources for planning and regulation. It is also not easy in these areas for municipalities to have an economically tight time. I believe that the interest in creating loop breeds will limit itself to very few municipalities. But in those municipalities that have long and stable winters, it will be important to have a law that allows for the creation of such pathways. The minority's proposals are far from good, but in my opinion there is a lack of overall governance from the environmental and protection point of view and from a regional general point of view. The majority say that municipalities that want to set up their own loops should be able to do so on specific assumptions and according to more detailed procedures and planning. I agree. Slaughtered water and adequate forest roads not located in environmental areas are suitable for that purpose. I assume that the Minister for the Environment will come to Stortinget with an adjusted law and possibly a regulatory change in line with what the majority has said in their comments, which I think are good.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-lower-2.ana.ud2352e113	It is just a pity that this good proposal is not being adopted. We have been debating Norwegian district policy in this Chamber for over four hours earlier today. Municipal self-government was one of the ingredients of the debate, and one should allow the districts to take advantage of their local advantage in tourism, and make it attractive and pleasant to live in District Norway. Especially was it important to create good and exciting offers for young people in the districts in order to be attractive to live there. But five to six hours after this debate, after a race to celebrate the opportunities of the districts and praise local self-government, Odelstinget then deals with a proposal from the Progress Party that is just about to increase local self-government, while at the same time making the villages more attractive, by allowing – to a modest extent – a very exciting recreational offer that many, both young and older, could enjoy in the districts. And then we see that the district party at the first crossroads, when they can give the words in their party speeches a hint of real content, that's to say no to what they said yes to six or seven hours ago. That's kind of weird. This was excellent district policy, while there was a real contribution to increased municipal autonomy. In both Sweden, Finland, the United States and Canada, this is a major business, a large district industry, and it has a high recreational value for people living in these places. In Finnmark, there's a looping system that works very well up there. So why in the world shouldn't people in the south also enjoy the same benefits? The result now becomes a lot of illegal snowmobile rides. Some places are so bad that the police have already given up. And we've seen it before, when the laws get too stupid in people's eyes, people don't care about them anymore. Then they laugh at the politicians, and people do pretty much what they want. This case shows that the Progress Party and the Right in many ways are the best friends in the districts and the greatest defenders of local democracy. One can't say the same thing about the other parts of this hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-lower-2.ana.ud2352e122	I note that a majority of the Committee believes that there may be a need for a number of changes to current rules, including: with a view to clarifying the role of municipalities in motor traffic management. The development of motorcycling, both in the case of snow-covered land and not least in the case of field driving, suggests that we now need to review this issue. I therefore accept the Committee's challenge of carrying out an assessment and returning to the Storting in an appropriate manner with the Government's assessments and proposals in this matter. There are important developments in the number of committees leading to the review of the Motor Traffic Act and its practice. I have noted the Committee's view that the purpose of the law should not be weakened, that important environmental values should be respected and that the general rule on the prohibition of motor travel should be maintained as a general starting point. I have also noticed that on the points where the Committee suggests concrete changes to the possibilities for running snowmobiles, it is also stressed that this must be done in such a way and in accordance with such planning procedures that the environmental impact will be minimal. In my opinion, linking the motor travel up to spatial plan assessments under the Planning and Building Act will be the right way to ensure that the environmental impacts are minimised. It is therefore necessary to allow for the zoning of areas in national/regionally valuable areas, where there should be strict rules and practice, and in local zones, where municipal judgement is crucial for the practice. Against this background, I am pleased that the majority does not support the proposal in Document No. 8:29 for 1988-99. I still notice that even the minority believe that unnecessary and extensive snowmobile driving is a burden on the environment and creates discomfort through noise and pollution. I also note that the minority assume that in the case of extended access snowmobile driving must take place in areas where the loads on particularly valuable natural areas are minimal. I therefore hope that the minority also agrees that planning is an important tool for reducing the adverse effects of snowmobile driving. So I want to come back to Stortingen in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-lower-2.ana.ud2352e139	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-lower-2.ana.ud2352e147	The odelsting shall then vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-lower-2.ana.ud2352e153	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1 by Mr Thore Aksel Nistad, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal No. 2, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of Right The President will first refer to proposal No. 2, from Right:
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-lower-2.ana.ud2352e234	There is no record available.
