ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e62	Three permit applications are available: from Mr John Dale on the leave of 22 and 23 February to attend meetings of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Brussels and Paris of the Workers' Party Group on the leave of Mr Jon Olav Alstad from 22 February to 24 February to attend a conference at Mr Wilton Park in Steyning in England from the Workers' Group on the welfare leave of Mr Grethe G. Fossum from 22 February to 24 February These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Hordaland County, Bjørg Hope Galtung, is prevented from meeting under the representative John Dale's leave because of foreign residence. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the period of leave: For Hedmark County: Erling BrandsFor Hordaland County: Magnar LussandFor Nord-Trøndelag County: Karin Kjølmoen3. Magnar Lussand is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of John Dale
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e115	Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the scheduled time of 9 p.m. 15 to the current map has been completed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e129	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 40 minutes, the Advance Party 20 minutes, the Christian People's Party and the Right 15 minutes each, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left 10 minutes each and the Representative Bastesen 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers for each group of parties and five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e140	Without being a prophet, I take the chance to predict that this matter we are dealing with in the Stortinget today will be one of the most important issues dealt with in the current growing period, and for the simple reason that the research effort is the most important of all the inputs in the future of Norwegian society. The communication underlying the treatment is a sound analysis of the situation and challenges of the Norwegian research system. There is also a message that puts the level of ambition at a very high price compared to what we have previously been used to in Norwegian research policy. In this context, it is particularly gratifying to note that it has been possible to reach a broad consensus within the Committee on the move of the list more than that contained in the notification. I remember from my study time one of my highly respected teachers who, like most professors, was a little distraught, and who stood on a pulpit and would read today's text, but got hurt to read the wrong text, and then he took the following remark: «Dear congregation! This was last Sunday's gospel, and it was a good gospel, but this Sunday's text is even better, and now it follows." That, I think, is a comprehensive characteristic of the relationship between the notification and the setting up of the committee. I think Norwegian research has reason to see the future facing a reasonable degree of optimism if the decisions the Stortinget is going to take today are followed up in action. The main objective of the Research Communication is to raise the total resource use in Norwegian research to what is called the average level of OECD countries. Now, of course, you can say that Norway should have been there a long time ago, yes, you can even add: we should have been significantly higher than that a long time ago. For one of the difficult questions to answer is how we have managed our national wealth in the decades since the oil age began in the early 1970s. This question can be asked a little more clearly in relief if you compare it with one of our neighbours in the Nordic region, namely Finland, has been created during the same period. As you know, Finland has experienced a period of economic crisis — very high unemployment and the need to tighten up the lifeline. In this situation, finding power has been quite impressive to bet on prioritising its own long-term future by investing in research and development. In Norway, at the same time, we have been in exactly the opposite situation with regard to our national economy, and during that period we have not been able to make the priorities we should have done in view of our own future. Now I'm not going to stay in the history. It has little to do with counting the lost battles on the winner's day. What's important is to look ahead, and then I want to point out what the Committee has agreed on in raising the list higher than what the Government has put forward in the Research Communication. Firstly, we have consistently established that the objective of the average OECD countries is a minimum objective. That is why we have consistently expressed ourselves in comments and in proposals that the objective should be at least the average level of OECD countries. We have also pointed out that this formula, the ‘average level of OECD countries’, is a moving objective and not a static one. It is not the average level that exists today, but the average level that you will have in five years, which will be our Norwegian target. NIFUS" estimates suggest that this will require an increase over the five-year period of NOK 8-9 billion. The Research Communication now assumes that there will be a steady increase in the relationship between private investment in research and public investment in research. This premise is problematic in so far as we have not yet received the Hervik Committee's position on the table with concrete proposals on the incentives to be introduced to stimulate private business to invest more in research and development. The ideal thing was, of course, that we had had those recommendations on the table at the same time as the research report. The Committee has now pointed out that we require a very rapid treatment of the Hervik Committee's position when it comes. We have also pointed out that the same thing must not happen that has happened with previous investigations of the same problem, namely that they have remained unfollowed. For this reason, the Committee has also asked for some concrete proposals from the Government for incentives for private research to be put into the revised national budget before the summer. The Committee asks the Government in the draft revised national budget to present a concrete escalation plan showing how the Government considers that the objective set should be achieved over the five-year period. It will give the Storting an opportunity to go deeper into the concrete numerical objectives for years to come. Equally important is the fact that a clear majority has gathered on an objective of stepping up the Research and Innovation Fund. This fund was established in 1998 through an agreement between the Workers' Party and the Right. It has reached a capital of NOK 3 billion, and we say from the majority that it must be a prerequisite for building up the fund to a size of NOK 10-15 billion over the five-year period. On this point, we also ask the Government to return to the draft revised national budget with a concrete escalation plan for how the Government sees that this objective can be achieved. At the same time, I stress that the Committee's position refers to the assumptions underlying the establishment of the Research and Innovation Fund, and states that these assumptions will continue to be the basis for the disposal of funds in the future. The main principle is that the yield of this fund should be an increase in the free resources available to strengthen not least the basic research effort in Norway. The third point of vital importance, where the Committee has raised the list significantly, is the commitment to recruitment to Norwegian research. We are in Norway today in the paradoxical situation that in several key disciplines it is very difficult to recruit young people to invest in research education and a future career in research and education. It is probably for the first time in modern times that we in Norway are in the situation that investing in a research career is no longer perceived as the most attractive, the most exciting, the most challenging, talented young people can throw themselves into it. In fact, we are in Norway today in the situation that quite a number of young people feel more attractive to go directly into earnings that strengthen their private economy. It is also permissible to say that once one of the most important export articles from Norway to abroad has become a professional footballer, it may suggest that the ideals we implant in young people are not simply the most forward-looking. I guess there's a lot of evidence that young people have come to realize that it's not that dangerous if you don't have anything in your head, just have it in your legs. There is well reason to believe that for Norway's future it means more that the good minds are really drawn to our research and education institutions. I've allowed myself in another context to say that there are hundreds of middle-class civil economists on one good teacher, and given the future of the country, I think that message is important to inculcate. It is the quality of our education and research system that will determine how Norway stands in international context in 10-15-20 years, not what we improvise today. The Committee has said that the objective of setting up 150 new recruitment posts per year is: years during the five-year period are too modest. That is why we have said that the last three years of the period should be raised to a minimum of 200. It gives an account over five years of 900 new recruitment positions, where the notification takes 750. Now some people think you should have gone even further, because the real need is even greater. Once the Committee has chosen to add the list there, it is recognised that the qualitative problem and the qualitative challenge are as large as the quantitative one. And it does little to create jobs if there are no qualified applicants for the jobs. That is why we must also bet on the long-term effort to succeed. At the same time, the entire committee, except for the members of the Progress Party, has pointed out that in the short term, we will need to import highly qualified young researchers to strengthen Norwegian research in vital areas. This means that we need to liberalise the rules we follow in Norway today, which require researchers from other countries who have been trained or participated in research in Norway to return to their home country once they have completed their research education. The motive behind this is affordable, namely that Norway should not contribute to brain drains from countries that sorely need the skills themselves. But when we see that the effect is that very many young talented scientists from Asia and Africa instead of going to American universities, we have to clearly stick our finger in the ground and figure out where we are. This is an important day, not primarily for Norwegian researchers and for Norwegian research, but it is an important day for Norwegian society, because it can mean a turning point in our national ability and willingness to invest in our own long-term future. If the decisions taken today by the Stortinget show itself to be the start of some of the same power efforts that Finland has made over the last five years, this can be of crucial importance for the future of Norway. I will not comment on the specific comments made by the various parties in the committee, because I consider the particular comments marginally compared to what has been achieved by bringing together almost unanimously on all the crucial points in the Committee's work. I also consider it important that research policy is a field that is to some extent lifted above the traditional party politics slogans and disagreements, because whatever kind of government we have to stick with in the future – it is a little uncertain at the moment – is quite fundamental that the willingness to invest in research is at stake. I think it can be said about the research report and about the committee's attitude that we are late – as it is called in one of the classic novels in Norwegian literature: "We are late – Mr. Kunsel! but we'll be fine!"
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e192	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e195	I had an unswerving desire to grasp something the representative Wohnning said about the migration of Norwegian youth to something other than research abroad. He actually said it's not that dangerous if you don't have anything in your head, just you have it in your legs. From that point of view, it is quite clear that Mr President. Wages have never played football at any particularly high level. It seems like he forgets that there's a situation where you have one ball, two goals and 22 players, and if you don't run in the heel, you have to have a lot in your head to find the easiest way to get to the goal. And I would like to know if he, when he has such opinions about something that is important for a mass of about 550 000 in Norway – important to so many people, totally irrelevant to the representative Wage, almost programmically, I would say – has some further opinions about the lack of intellectual qualities of these young people. In addition, he was involved in the import of qualified young researchers into Norway, which appears to have been hoped for by a majority in the Committee on the basis of some sort of development programme, without having prepared in particular how these should be given the necessary integration opportunities in this country, for perhaps once in the future to be positive in their own country and not America or other industrialised countries. I wish he would say something about it too.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e202	The representative Evje is quite right in his assumption that I've never played in the highest divisions, but I have enough ready at football to know when something is behind the goal. [[Laughter]] I have a very definite feeling that it is a bit on the side of what is the theme both in the research announcement and the committee setting, to discuss Norwegian football policy. Actually, that's not what I invited you to do. I just wanted to point out the paradox in that today we have created a social climate where you often get answers when the newspapers interview high school students, exactly that age group, that their greatest dream for the future is to become professional football players – not because you're concerned with head games, but because you're concerned that then you can convert your legs for a couple of hundred million kroner. And it's precisely in the context of the thinking that I, for my part, believe that we have a national task in getting young people to realize that maybe the excellent scientists we've been raising in Norway -- in the last century, when Norway was still a very poor and very modest country in Europe, we had an amazingly high number of excellent researchers -- a little more forward-looking ideals to deal with than the dream that can be counted out in cash at the moment. It struck me a few years ago when we celebrated an anniversary for our great mathematician Sophus Lie, that it was impossible to get the Norwegian Post Office to make a stamp on the occasion of the case because you had never heard the name Sophus Lie. You thought it was the name of an auditorium on the Blind, which is what it is. At the same time, several series of stamps with pictures of Sophus Lie were published in Russia. In fact, Norwegian research is much better known abroad than in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e209	I broadly agree with most of what Inge Wohnning said in her introduction. This means, in concrete terms, that we need to increase research efforts in Norway over public budgets somewhere between DKK 750 million and DKK 1 billion per year. We must therefore be aware that if we are to implement what the Storting is about to adopt today, that means that the state budget for 2001 on the research side must be increased by DKK 1 billion. I think we're set to do that. But what made me take the floor was that Inge Wohnning at the end of his post said that if this turns out to be the beginning of a force effort for Norwegian research – I think he said ‘if’, I start to doubt. Is Inge Wohnung and the other parties in doubt that we should be able to carry out that effort, or was it past experience and the fate of previous messages he saw separately – and feared that this message and what we are about to adopt today could have the same fate as previous research messages? Or does that mean that the right is already beginning to see that getting an increase of DKK 1 billion over the budgets in the future could be too heavy a rise?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e214	I can confirm that the small reservation in the wording refers primarily to previous experience. In fact, this formula, the average level of OECD countries, has been in circulation for quite a long time in the Norwegian research policy context without having materialised in concrete results. That is also why we in the Committee have gathered together on the clear commitment of the Government to concreteising the objectives and, above all, to presenting a step-by-step approach to achieving this objective over the five-year period. From the Right-hand side, I can at least confirm that we are ready to follow up in action what we say in words. As we are also aware in our alternative draft budgets, every year in the last few years we have been committed to strengthening not least the universities as the core wall of the Norwegian research system. But here, of course, each party must speak for itself and take responsibility on its own behalf for what is being said through committee voting and through the decisions the Stortinget is invited to take today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e221	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e224	When we are about to deal with the research report, I think I will begin by thanking the case rapporteur for doing a very good job of helping to tighten up this message. The message was a relatively good starting point for a debate in Stortinget, and I experience that through the committee process and a good work there we actually have a good deal to do it even better and even more concretely than what was originally there. This is how the world changes, Europe changes, and Norway changes. Knowledge is becoming more and more important. Old technology is disappearing, and new ones are coming. Business disappears and new ones are coming. Workplaces are disappearing and new ones are coming. We could be like that or not like that, we could be for or against it, we could hold back or stimulate to what's happening, but the only thing that's certain is that it happens, that evolution goes on. Norway is in the lucky situation that, as has been said here in the Chamber before, we have won in Lotto. We've found oil, and we've moved well on it. Sooner or later, this oil era will end. Then we have to find new legs to stand on. The development of knowledge through research and education is crucial if we are to stick with and develop new industries. We have the money, and we have the opportunities, but until now we haven't prioritised research in the same way as the countries around us. The main features of the notification and its processing can be summarised briefly as follows: 1st@item: inlistbox We need to do more research. Today, Norway is hopelessly well behind the OECD average. A comparison of the research share of GDP, as reported in the Communication, may not be the best way to measure it. The government and the committee agree that it's not very precise, but that's the method we have, that's the way we've chosen to do it, and everyone agrees that we're too far behind the countries we compare with. Countries such as Sweden and Finland are far ahead of the investment we have in Norway.2. We will focus on four main thematic areas: marine research, ICT research, medical and health research and research at the intersection of energy and the environment. It's necessary to give us areas where we can assert ourselves particularly internationally. I feel that through this treatment we give priority to areas where we have good prospects for future development.3. Business needs to contribute more to Norwegian research. Norwegian business is not research-based in relation to competing countries. In increasing competition, knowledge becomes more important and important. This is not the first time the Stortinget has the aim that Norwegian research efforts should increase sharply. Unfortunately, previous decisions have proved to be paper tigers — they have not been followed up, and we have not come up against the average in the OECD, rather the opposite. Here, changing governments and parties in Stortinget must share the responsibility brotherly. No one has had proposals for appropriations that could have given a situation that would have been completely different from today. The size has decided and established a so-called research fund. That fund currently has a capital of DKK 3 billion and gave a return of SEK 90 million. kr. What's great about the way to fund research is that the funds are not tied up by the departmental structures so that something comes from the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs, something from the Ministry of Fisheries and something from the Ministry of Agriculture, but that there are free resources that you can control against the areas where you feel it is most important to bet. The Fund shall be financed and financed through the sale of the State’s shares in various industrial activities and properties. The majority are in favour of this fund being significantly increased during the five-year period into which we are now going. By «significantly», the majority, which here consists of the Workers' Party and the Right, believe that we should spend up to DKK 10-15 billion on administrative capital, so that the fund can be a real contributor to getting the volume of our research effort. We are now asking the Government to return to the revised national budget with a stepping-up plan to get Norwegian research up to the OECD average over five years. And when we ask for it, we believe that we want an obliging escalation plan. We assume that the Government will come up with a plan that shows what the Government has to do in the annual budgets to achieve this goal. I want to make sure that the Minister of Research has understood the order he receives today, which must be in place for the revised national budget: 1st@item: inlistbox We need to get an estimate of how much public direct appropriations need to increase every year to bring us up to at least the OECD average within five years.2. The Hervik Committee shall be set up on 1 March and shall have a review of the means of making business more researchable. It will hardly be possible to have a total treatment of their entire position before the revised national budget is presented. We understand that, but we still think it is unfortunate that Stortinget has not been given the opportunity to discuss instruments to business when we are now dealing with the research report, which means that we have received half a message in many ways. Although the setting of the Hervik Committee will not have been completed, the Government has to submit proposals on how to increase its research activity. We cannot wait until the budget in 2001 or 2002 before the measures come — in which case I am afraid that we are not doing the objective of getting up to at least the average OECD level, then I am afraid that business growth will start too late.3. The majority believe that the research fund will increase to DKK 10-15 billion over the five-year period. The government parties do not support this, but we still assume that the government will return to the revised national budget with a concrete plan for how this will happen. All of this must therefore be reflected in the revised national budget: a plan to step up appropriations, concrete measures to increase research efforts in business and a plan to increase the research fund to DKK 10-15 billion over five years. I ask the Minister of Research to confirm in his statement that this will happen. Now I see that the post to the Council of State is distributed in the hall already by mistake, so I can check for myself when I come down, whether he is going to confirm or possibly cancel this. In the setting, there are many themes involved. But the main point is that we have to make a joint effort now to get to the increased investment in Norwegian research that we all think is necessary. The entire Committee covers the four thematic areas proposed. I would particularly like to highlight the commitment to marine research. Seafood has an incredible potential in Norway, both with farming of new species and with increased value creation in traditional fisheries. We can get an industry with an export value of several hundred billion dollars, which can become the stembone itself in the Norwegian economy. The size has decided to introduce a research and development fee for fishing for aquaculture. This will be a means of research that comes directly from industry actors, and then it is natural that they should also be in charge of the use of these funds. It is therefore gratifying that there is now a broad majority – yes, it is actually unanimous – that this money should be made available through the industry itself. That's how we can get legitimacy around this fee, and, of course, the industry sits on knowledge about where the shoe prints, and where it's necessary to bet. The working party considers it particularly important to increase research efforts in the fisheries and aquaculture sectors. If we are serious about this business being carried on in the future, we must take responsibility for it. That's why we have agreed that the fee that comes in from the industry should be matched with a similar bet from the state, i.e. that we go in and double the amount. I am surprised that the Labour Party is alone in this position. If other parties consider something serious that the marine sector is a priority area, it must not only be worded, action is also required. Recruitment of personnel to Norwegian research is a major theme. We already see that with the efforts we have in Norwegian research today, there are too few people who are taking research training. The message states that 150 new recruitment posts should be created each year for five years, i.e. 750 new jobs. The Hearing Officers have made us aware that this is not even close enough to meet the objective of reaching the average OECD level. That is why the Committee has agreed to increase that number to 900; in itself a modest increase, but we stress that this must not be a ceiling; it must be a threshold – it must be a minimum. And we assume that action is also taken to acquire the skills necessary to carry out Norwegian research in the future. In the course of the discussion, it was found that much of the policy was agreed on in the future. This is a strength, and it promises well that we can get to the escalation that is necessary. But on one point, in the Labour Party, we separate teams from the rest of the committee and have a slightly different attitude. We all agree that we should ensure that the heavy environments develop further in order to be internationally leading. There's no disagreement here. We should not spread the resources for thin beyond the system – the message is based on the opposite, that we should concentrate the effort. But there has to be something more. The working party cannot connect with the right-hand side and the center of a policy where it looks like you're going to cement the structure of the day. If we do not take responsibility, we risk that large parts of the country will not be able to participate too fully in the raging development that is taking place. We cannot accept that large regions end up in the shadow of knowledge. In the nomination, the Workers' Party is largely alone in its view that research and higher education should also be used as an instrument for development throughout the country. We are promoting proposals that higher education environments should be given the opportunity to develop excellence in their areas. It has now been opened that – and that is where you stand – it can be authorised to award doctoral degrees at state universities, of course only after approval by the ministry. Basic research shall also be carried out at these institutions. But the majority stop seeing that this can be possible where the environment is present, they don't say anything about where the environment is going to come from. The working party believes that it should be possible to build up skills, and this is best done through the distribution of recruitment positions. We can't say that today's structure is the final one, and that's the way it should be forever. The research environments we have today have not come through natural laws, they have been politically established because big business and government would achieve something. The Labour Party believes that the Norwegian research community should not necessarily be static. Although there is some disagreement about the direction, a broad majority of them agree on the most important thing, that we need to get a boost for Norwegian research. The message is tightened up and given a more specific content. There is no doubt that, through the treatment and the suspension, we have received a research report that obliges far more than what the Government had submitted to. Now it's up to us to comply with these obligations. I would like to address the suggestions made by the Workers' Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e286	Tomas Norvoll has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It'll be a string change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e292	I have not come to report any particular disagreement, but I would like to know what the last representative in the pulpit meant by this lifting, and that more should be allocated to research. It's a problem to get people to do research, and if you're going to get people to do research, they're going to have to pay higher wages. And then it's not only useful to pay higher wages to those who start researching, lure them into universities and colleges, you also have to pay higher wages to those who are already there. You can't let those who come new and fresh make more money than those who are there before. When you're going to figure out what this costs, you're going to have to raise everybody. I wonder if someone's come up with ideas about what it's really going to cost. So that's another thing. I've been reading for many years that the Nordics do a lot of inventions, and that a lot of patents are being taken out. But what distinguishes Norway is that there are very few Norwegians who do something commercial out of these patents, and that there are very often foreigners who buy our best patents. If you can't do anything about this, we're also facing a problem. What I would like to know is whether the Workers' Party's representative has any idea of the problems I'm travelling here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e301	In the latter case, about commercialising Norwegian patents, we say a lot about it in the setting. In fact, there's only the Workers' Party that has a concrete view of how we're going to use the tool that's there today, to get new ideas put into life and commercialize them and create new businesses around them. So it's basically just reading the setting. When it comes to getting more research, there are two main ways to get it done. One is that of course, we need to go into and increase the actual appropriations of universities and colleges and other research institutions, so that they are more able to carry out their work both in relation to basic research and in relation to industrial research. The second and perhaps the most important thing is that we need to get business to do more research. Norway has a business structure consisting of very small enterprises, which makes it difficult to get them to give something in particular to Norwegian research. It's bad for Norway, and not least it's bad for the companies themselves. So, in the revision, the Government needs to provide measures to stimulate business to research more. The replicator also mentions the problem of getting people relative to pay. I didn't mention pay with a single word in my post, and it was actually quite conscious. In terms of wage formation, whether it's for researchers or others in this community, I think we're going to have the principle attitude that it's going to happen somewhere else than in this room. And I'm glad that the committee hasn't given up on that defect in this setting either. What we're saying is that here the government needs to take action to ensure that we get the recruitment we need to be able to conduct research at the average OECD level.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e310	I will not come to the rescue of the representative Norvoll regarding the last answer he gave, but it struck me that he could have responded by referring to the Labour Party's main slogan from the last election: 'Work and education should pay off'. It might have been a better answer. But it may be more relevant to come back to it when the Storting will deal with the teacher recruitment message in a short time. There is a clear link between the issue in the message and the issue in the message we are dealing with today. When I asked for the floor, it was, among other things, to supplement Norvoll at one point. He said that the remark that the research fund is worth between 10 and 15 million. kr, was a majority comment from the Right and Labour Party. He forgot about SV, which is also part of the same majority. That makes the majority even a little bit more impressive. When the Workers' Party has remained alone about part of its comments in the setting, I think it is because, at my discretion, they represent a derailment in many ways compared to what is the main part of the message. This concerns the long comment on North Norway, which invites to a debate which, in my opinion, belongs in a completely different context than in the examination of a communication on the national research effort. In this context, there is no point in starting to calculate a national average for research — now that the calculation is due to — and then starting to assess the ratio of individual parts of the country to this average. It's a derailment. But an even more eye-catching derailment seems to me to be the Workers' Party's fractional remark about 'centres of excellence'. It is, of course, a horizontal feature of the Research Communication and of the Committee's position that we are now focusing on concentration and quality where we have been concerned for a long time for very different reasons. Members of the Labour Party say they agree to this, but then they add that ‘centres of excellence’ are also seen in a regional context. Then not only is the point gone, but then you contradict yourself directly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e321	I just have to tell SV I am sorry that I was not included in my post that they are also involved in the money. Of course they are. It would just be missing, as long as we're talking about bringing in new appropriations. With regard to our remarks where we stand alone about a slightly different position than the rest of the committee, it's all right that we disagree with the Right. I am fully aware that the representative of Inge Wohnning believes that research, higher education and what we are talking about here should be centralised and that resources should be collected as much as possible. I'm aware of that, and that's where we have a slightly different view. We believe that it should also be possible to build knowledge environments around the country. It's a completely honest and straightforward disagreement. I am much more surprised that other parties than the Right are not in the same direction as the Workers' Party. I think it's much more strange and much more difficult to understand that part of the centre parties doesn't at least support the attitude that we're basing, that it's going to be possible to build new environments as well. Because we're not saying in any way that we're going to spread resources beyond, but we're going to distribute a growth. We're going to distribute a strong growth, and then it can't be that we establish that today's structure is the final one, that it should lie like this forever. Of course, we are also for the centre of excellence. It would be dangerous if we were to build a new kind of research institutions or ways of financing research that seems extremely centralizing. It'll be unfortunate, and we don't want to be in that gallery. I believe that my answer to the representative, Inge Wohnung, in relation to this almost has to be to refer to representatives of the centre parties. I really hope that they have the opportunity to meet us about the attitude that we have to create environments of competence around the regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e328	In the magazine Research No. 1 this year is the Executive Director of the Research Council, Christian Hambro, the interview on what has happened since the Research Council came up with its input into work on the Research Communication. He says, «Very much has happened»... «There has been almost a change in climate»... «In Stortinget there has been a broad, cross-political agreement that there is a need for a rise in the Norwegian research system, and the Government has expressed a clear willingness to invest in research and development, among others. through the Adultåsen Declaration.’» [[PDO]] The setting has been good, and that rose also goes to the case rapporteur. I am particularly pleased with the consensus on the use of the research fund and the funds there, so that it becomes an important resource provider in the future. My reply to the representative Norvoll goes to the special comment that was mentioned in place of North Norway, where it is said that the region ‘has a research share that is about half the national average’. I record in a letter from the county council that they do not mention this, but they highlight the county's potential in marine research with a description of a research programme, and ask us to take it into account. It's okay. I have to ask the representative Norvoll: what kind of documentation does the Workers' Party have to build on when they claim this, and does the Workers' Party have similar numbers for other parts of the country? I expect that it is of great interest to people in other states and parts of the country to hear the views of the Workers' Party, because that's the way it is – or isn't it? – that quality is primarily to be at the bottom of the development of research environments?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e342	Of course, quality should be at the bottom of Norwegian research; it should be lacking. But what's a little clever here is that in many previous settings and debates, the Workers' Party and the Centre have agreed on the idea that it will also be possible to develop new environments based on quality and where quality will lie at the bottom. So there's no contradiction in this. When we established the University of Tromsø, there was nothing there from there, but we went in with funds and built the long-term competence, so that today we have a very good university environment there. The same has happened to some of the largest higher education environments and research environments we have around in Norway today. That's the way it is going: political decisions go in and say that this is an area, either geographically or professionally, where we want to be better in Norway, and then we go into and prioritise it. I want to believe that what I'm saying now is like reading from the party program of the Center Party. I guess so. I haven't checked up on it, but I guess that attitude is there too, I take it as a matter of course. At least this is one of the things. The Minister of State is traveling around and talking about it all the time. That's why I'm so surprised that the Center Party and the Center Parties aren't in. There is no problem for the Workers' Party to express this attitude. There must be a much bigger problem for the Center Party to stand outside. In the case of North Norway in particular, many of the environments in North Norway, not least from the Council for Higher Education in North Norway, have been recorded, pointing out that there is very little research in that part of the country in relation to what is going on in the country. We don't go in with any millimeters to say that so and so much, but we say that it's important that the whole country is involved in the development. That's what we're thinking about. What's most frightening is that when we put in these kind of comments, and when we present that kind of attitude, we get no response from the center parties, and there's been no attempt from them to gather on a unified view that research is also going to be going on around the different regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e357	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e360	If Norwegian industry is to be able to follow and compete in international competition, new industries must be created based on available raw materials, modern technology and new knowledge. Such a project was recently presented via a TV feature, where a researcher from SINTEF showed that not only the cod fillet, but also the cod fillet. can be used as food, but that the fish waste, which we normally throw at – the environmental problem in other words – can also be used in its entirety for other purposes, which provides enormous potential for performance. This type of product knowledge is usually obtained through applied research, which therefore serves both business and individual researchers and – not least – their jobs. However, if applied research and new development of already known industries and technologies are to carry a future business life, the Norwegian research communities must be of high international standards and perhaps of much higher quality than what we have today, so that even industries outside our country's borders are interested in what is happening in Norway, and not least are willing to pay for Norwegian knowledge in strong competition with other nations. In short, this activity costs money – a lot of money. However, it is utopian and, at best, Norwegian ‘souldigging’ to believe that we can be the best at everything. Although some have claimed that ‘it is typically Norwegian to be good’, it is not typical for a small country that wants to claim at world level to disperse its resources so as to water out top-notch environments. We have to recognise that some research also needs to be done abroad. Furthermore, it is not an end in itself to self-sufficiency in both education and research. What we're talking about are jobs and welfare for future generations, which can't be based on a life of masculinity and egoism paid with oil money. Norwegian jobs can be created and secured by research and knowledge acquired abroad as well. And jobs we will need to be in close proximity in future buckets and buckets, when oil and gas are no longer available on the same scale as now in our areas – approx. 800,000 jobs, I've heard. It was actually said that you didn't even know what these were going to be. Quite enormously, you ask me. I, who's a little bit older, remember that when the oil adventure started and what we were going to spend on these huge sums, it was from someone a clear assumption that a lot was to be invested in just research. This research would include, inter alia: replacing the loss of the technology industry, which was very sensitive at the time. In addition, it was going to be some kind of future clone disease, innovation of industries, so we had something to fall back on when it all ended. This was a good point of view. But when the communication on the environment now proves that they have actually been fed with food, it is timely, in the opinion of the Progress Party, to ask the majority: why did you promise something that you did not keep? Industries are disappearing at a ripping pace. Norwegian enterprises are sold abroad and then slaughtered. It is a paradox that, as a nation, we are unable to develop something new that we can produce and live from and at the same time get income from through patenting and licensing. The Progress Party has been accused by many of its lack of policy in terms of education in general or research in particular. There seems to be accusations that more falls into the category that a should remove the search light from himself and his own backyard, because backyards in general say a lot about the one who owns them. The Progress Party has always recognised that basic research is a public responsibility, and therefore it is a general public financial responsibility. With regard to the specific situation of basic research as a set of building blocks in a national diffuse knowledge base, this type of research is not just a public responsibility; it is a fundamental responsibility linked to universities and, in particular, scientific universities. It is therefore with some wonder that we see that all other parties want – and that is very strong – to spread limited resources even more than today in a regional perspective that obviously will make some colleges more attractive. This is also a way of using research. I wonder if serious researchers see this as particularly positive. Now it is to be admitted that we are living in the age of technology, and that research can in principle also take place in cooperation with others and can be carried out almost anywhere, depending on equipment and space. But I don't think of the majority as thinking of things as a virtual world university or a virtual research environment. The multiplicity point of view on regionalisation and localisation seems to be too stuck to such ideas. In other words, you're still bound by old stuff of thought. The Progress Party has also noted that the Communication places a significant emphasis on higher education as a research-based approach. Since the majority of the Committee has strongly supported the undersigned on this matter, I would quote from the communication on page 41, with reference to new common law for universities and colleges which entered into force on 1 January 1996: ‘— provide right-wing training based primarily on research, artistic development and experience— conduct research and professional development and/or artistic development.’ If this does not mean that all higher education should be research-based, then it is high time to ask what the majority of the Stortinges really meant by those words. Furthermore, it states that ‘universities and scientific colleges have a specific national responsibility for basic research and research training’. Is this just a big word when this is about to be regionalised in order to generate growth in the districts? The Progress Party has always argued that a concentration of basic research and the research environment will simplify both administration and implementation so that the nation is provided with the necessary basic research for the resources allocated and not for administration and employment. The facts are that basic research has been carried out and funded at universities, colleges, institutes, and so on, and it almost seems that unbridledness has been a goal. If this is true, it can almost be seen as a recognition that the less others are able to figure out what really happens, the easier it is to control both the appropriations and the result. There have also been periods of high unemployment, where the capacity of higher education institutions carrying out basic research has been reduced to the point of inadequacy of ‘punishment’ of realities. This increase in volume, together with a hopeless funding system, has also greatly affected research. A lot of people have already recognized this today. However, I had hoped that at least at this stage the Right Party would implement its alleged policy on concentration, quality and high international level in research. But it's almost pathetic when a reader sees the rapporteur's attempt and his extreme willingness to enter into compromises that won out the whole system – just to avoid standing alone about views that are basically good and widely shared by the Progress Party. We just have to realize that governance is more important than allowing skilled people to research on their own beliefs and external financing needs. It seems that the majority, just like Aunt Sofie in «People and Robbers in Kardemmme City», are more concerned with order, system and control than with spontaneity, development and freedom. This seemingly optimal majority policy has now led our former leading research-based educational institutions to no longer pursue professional quality objectives. I can briefly mention that business questions about professional competence in certain technological environments at NTNU. Some years ago, there was an unimaginable situation. Some have a significant responsibility. But it cannot be placed on the threshold of the Progress Party. This party has asked legitimate questions about both education and research in Norway for many, many years. With regard to the very large number of recruitment positions to be set up during a five-year period, there is only one thing to say: that adopting the number and location now probably will not help institutions in the long run, as the system becomes too rigid. Furthermore, it must be clear that over time industry's research efforts appear to be guided by completely different criteria than those highlighted by the Government over time, namely the markets. This may indicate that business interests and needs are not adequately addressed. It is worrying when it is pointed out from large enterprises and industries that the quality of Norway is not satisfactory and that the issue of high quality is used as a justification for research abroad. The Progress Party is also painfully aware of the vulnerability of a business that consists mainly of small and medium-sized enterprises and that these have varying needs for new developments. When it comes to promoting and wanting to increase business investment, increased investment should not be made through compulsory charges imposed on small and vulnerable industries. It must be based on an industry’s own desire, for example: as the Contracting Party writes in its comments: «These enterprises should be allowed to enter one or more privately funded research pools where this is considered appropriate from the point of view of each enterprise». And it has to be voluntary. Of course, the pools should be managed by the companies themselves. It is also important to draw attention to something that the others in the Committee have obviously forgotten, that the EU Framework Programme for Research, the EUREKA cooperation, and Nordic research cooperation seem to have kept the boat floating when national sources dry up. But as far as I can see, none of the majority constellations have cared about assessing the considerable resources and all the working time that researchers themselves have to use to define, describe and quality assurance projects, and then write detailed applications for money. In the view of the Progress Party, this is a very worrying development and a field in which the majority should also be interested in finding solutions. I would like to take up with this the proposals on which the Progress Party shares with others, or stands alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e413	Ursula Evje has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e418	Research and education are interdependent. It is therefore necessary to look at research related to the provision of education. Research and education in Norway has a strong strength through a decentralised structure represented at higher education institutions. It facilitates the recruitment of higher education students. This is an important contribution to qualifying for research. A decentralised structure offers many opportunities to take up education and continue important research without having to move to the central strata. It's an objective to have a population with a high level of knowledge. In the introduction to this approach, it is clear that knowledge and competences are becoming increasingly important both for individuals and for society. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes it is important to facilitate the development of highly quality professional environments throughout the country. This also contributes to the diversity and strength of research. It is important to be able to acquire and further develop knowledge and skills without compromising this at a great distance from the educational institution in order to continue this strength and diversity. The Progress Party proposes in the suspension, and the representative Evje included it in his statement, that a broad review of the appropriateness of the current training structure should be carried out with a view to improving the efficiency and concentration of the professional environments. Then it's natural to ask, does this mean the closure of colleges? And if so, how many or what colleges is the Progress Party considered superfluous? It is also the case that a decentralised research structure contributes very important competences for local and regional businesses. Strong centralisation of research will help to increase the distance from local business. Does the representative see that this will reduce local business opportunities for knowledge-based development?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e429	I cannot disagree with the representative of Solberg that education and research are two sides of the same coin. But when it comes to the fact that the whole population necessarily needs to have a high level of knowledge, at the academic level maybe, I deeply disagree. There is the Progress Party in the situation that we recognise that business in Norway is like some kind of tissue. The whole of Norway is a tissue, and if we don't have skilled workers to deal with renovation, sewerage, etc., the doctor will have a completely different working situation than he has today. Yes, even our entire public health will suffer noticeably under that. We can imagine the emergence of diphtheria, of typhoid, of a wide range of diseases that we haven't seen in many, many years. This will not be the case with the Progress Party. We recognize that a renovation worker, who does not need academic lay or background, is incredibly useful in a society like ours. As far as the local business community, for which Solberg was also concerned, this is, as I said, mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, men and wives. They must be able to take advantage of research, but I don't think they can do the research in their own local environment or in their own local enterprise. They are too small for that, and the Progress Party has recognised it. That is why we have promoted our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e437	With reference to a previous exchange of views in this debate, I might say that it is not always as easy to play ball with the Progress Party. You often feel fundamentally unsure if you're playing at all on the same track. The representative Evje presented it as if the majority – she even said all other parties – in the committee position were in favour of regionalisation and localisation, and that ‘this should now be regionalised’. This is with respect to report pointlessly. Anyone who has read the committee setting must be able to record that it is pointless. Both in the notification and in the committee setting, one feature is consistent, namely that quality should be the decisive criterion for the use of research funds in the Norwegian system. That the Progress Party has not managed to get that point, is surprising. With regard to the comments of the Progress Party in the committee position, I have refused to comment on them, because I have great problems understanding what they mean, and what they mean. On one point, however, I would like a little explanation from the representative, Evje. The majority of the Committee stated in the introduction that: ‘weight to the general cultural dimension of research, as an instrument for man’s ability and desire to gain knowledge and insight both about himself, about society and about the outside world in the broadest sense’. So it says a lot more about this general cultural dimension. On this point, all the other parties are involved, the Progress Party is not. Here we go, let's go, let's go, let's «The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party will note that the general cultural dimension of research is important but must be reduced.» What lies in this demise of the universal cultural value of research? I should like an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e456	Learning the representative's salary football philosophy in two minutes I think is an impossibility, so I'm not going to try it on. But when it comes to his views on quality, he falls back in the same situation that he very often does when we talk about quality in primary, secondary, etc. We fundamentally disagree on a wide range of points, and I claim again that for the Right it is more important to be in a majority constellation than to think these thoughts through on their own and stand on perhaps different foundations than what they have done in the last 75-100 years. When he has a lot of problems to realize that we realize that one thing is important, but that we still reserve ourselves against spending large sums on the kind of research that will go to the distortion of other types of development, I think it actually says more about the representative's salary and his ability to read and understand than it says about the Progress Party. I'm very sorry, because he's a man I sometimes have very much respect for.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e465	Norway has a strict practice of residence and work permits. Nevertheless, I have consistently understood it so that the Progress Party in general has an attitude that is that our practice is still too liberal. It has been the view of the Left in a number of contexts that, especially in relation to research, universities and colleges, we have recorded that our strict practices today – and as the Progress Party, as far as I understand, will normally have even more stringent – have been to a clear disadvantage and harm to Norwegian university and research environments. We have had a number of examples of the fact that researchers and some of the staff of high quality who have otherwise been necessary for universities have had to leave, and that this has produced reactions at universities. The majority, all with the exception of the Advance Party, have a comment in the nomination indicating that Norway has had a strict practice ‘in relation to residence and work permits for foreign researchers who have participated in Norwegian research education’. Part of the background to this has been the desire to avoid brain drains from less developed countries. However, we have seen in practice that very often the result is that these people find jobs in developed countries other than Norway. Now the Progress Party does not comment on this observation from the majority. But my question to the representative Evje is: Is it more important for the Progress Party to cultivate foreign fear than to take care of the interests of Norwegian universities and colleges?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e474	The Progress Party has, for a very long time, wanted strict practice in immigration and residence and work permits because we do not accept the integration policies that have been pursued in this country. We think it's directly wrong. In the case of professionals, who the nation needed, we've never said no to that. I can refer to a wide range of projects, including: in the oil and offshore industry, where we have at times had a very large proportion of non-residents who have worked and lived and who have been almost integrated here in the country. Some still live here and run their own businesses and have acquired Norwegian citizenship. We never said that we don't want this. But in terms of a little more diffuse, populist remarks that this should be done on a general basis, without having been the subject of debate at all, we feel that our own good, safe, old policy – where we show that we are international, but not particularly unintelligent – is firm, and we do not need to comment further.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e483	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e486	The main message of this debate is a cross-political will for increased research efforts. The Government's message is largely in line with all the main points, and the size has high ambitions both in terms of quality and scope. This can be seen in the agreement on stepping up resource efforts to at least an average OECD level over five years, 900 new recruitment positions, a significant increase in the research fund and a thematic effort in four selected areas as well as a width of the knowledge pool, and quality being put at the centre. The Christian People's Party supports all these measures. Cross-politicisation would also provide good opportunities for achieving its objectives. In the past, the Stortinget has also had great ambitions on behalf of research without achieving its objectives. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party will give priority to research in the years ahead. Research plays an important role in social development. Many will focus on economic growth as a reason for focusing on research. A chronicle in the newspaper this week did. In the Christian People's Party, we think this is too poor a research perspective. Knowledge and competence will play an increasingly important role both in the quality of life of individuals and in the ability of society to increase value creation. Research has an economic dimension, but it also has a general cultural dimension as an instrument for man's ability and desire to gain knowledge and insight both about himself and the outside world in the broadest sense. This dimension legitimizes research in research disciplines which do not have an apparent material or economic benefit. The Party of Progress appears to lack this dimension in its motivation for research through a kind of misunderstood principle of concentration. The Christian People's Party also wants to bet on the four thematic areas of the Communication, but also sees the need for these areas to include interdisciplinary perspectives in research, and for one to see the link between the focus on knowledge in general and some thematic areas. We need binding escalation plans for research efforts. The Christian People's Party believes that it is necessary to raise research efforts to at least the average OECD level. To succeed in this, we need an increase in R & D efforts in business. The government has set down the Hervik committee to investigate business incentives, and it will come forward with its proposals in March this year. In the Christian People's Party, we want a rapid implementation of the proposals from the sample. If not, we can risk not achieving the goals. Let me also stress that the Christian People's Party wants closer cooperation between higher education and business. Our universities have greater potential for developing commercial ideas and products than is happening today. We need a greater commitment from the institutions to this work. There is also a need for a significant increase in the capital of the research fund. It is good that there is broad agreement on the use of the Fund and that one will use funds that can also benefit from the long-term development of research quality. It is therefore important that the fund’s capital be significantly increased. With the desire to step up research efforts, it will be a major challenge to recruit qualified candidates for research. It will be important for the education system to provide a good qualitative basis for a research career. But it's also a lot about organization and motivation. Students should be able to get summer jobs in the future and be included in research work at universities and thus become familiar with and involved in research work. We have many good talents in Norway, and these we have to take care of. Nevertheless, I believe that in the future too there will be a need for the import of researchers from other countries. I am pleased that the majority is asking the Government to assess current legislation and practices with a view to embellishing the rules on residence and work permits for foreign researchers. In research, there is only one division, the international. Therefore, the quality of Norwegian research needs to be high. In some areas, we should also have ambitions to be international leaders. If we're to succeed, we need top-level environments, and the centre of forward-looking research is a good response to this. But we also need the quality of latitude both thematically and regionally. The Christian People's Party agrees that more of the growth in basic research is to be channelled to universities and colleges, and that one should be able to award doctoral degrees even in strong higher education environments. Closer cooperation between higher education institutions and regional research foundations is desirable in order to strengthen regional environments. The quality dimension makes it possible to establish a new environment and, through strategic work on the part of the institutions, strong research environments can be established outside our traditional universities. The case rapporteur said in his statement that the setting is better than the message. And that was a dressy mention of your own efforts. The President of the case shall be commended for his work. I note that the Government agrees with the main features of its communication, and I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on research policy in the Stortinget. This consensus is the best basis for achieving the objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e505	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e508	The central government has been concerned with being block-independent, and they are happy to present themselves as more concerned with the districts than, for example, with the local government. The working party. In this setting, we in the Workers' Party have presented a series of measures that will lead to more research and development in the districts, measures in which the centre parties cannot give us their support. So instead, they choose to be together with the Right in a rather consistent way, not a very block-independent way. What I think is going through the line they stand for is that you just have to bet on the environments that are already well established, while in the Labour Party we mean, for example. that when we are going to assign recruitment positions to the higher education sector, we can also allocate it to areas where we see an opportunity to build up a fully-fledged competence, including internationally, so that we can bet on the environments that are a little vulnerable, precisely to strengthen them. So I have two questions for the representative Arne Lyngstad. The first is, why are the center parties going against this? My second question concerns North Norway. When you go against what we say about North Norway, is there anything you have discussed with your co-representatives from the Nordic states? And did they agree in the case that you should go against what we have put in?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e515	I can assure the representative of Konglevoll that the Christian People's Party is also engaged in research throughout the country. We're actually saying that. We say in a comment in the vote that we ‘presuppose that the needs of the regions are also met in the planned strengthening of Norwegian research’. It's just the Workers' Party that thinks it necessary to flag with its own sailor in relation to North Norway. I would also have said that increasing the basic appropriations for the institutions is a line that the majority wants. That also means the universities and colleges in North Norway. These environments, of course, have a strength in themselves in their subject areas, which means that they will be able to cope well with the competition for the future allocation of research funds, so I think that this is designed to create a disunity that is not real. It's an attempt to send a pendulum to a part of the country that has good assumptions for success when you put emphasis on quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e522	It could be tempting to follow up the previous line of asking why the Christian People's Party has not said anything about the Outer Namdalen in this setting, or about other parts of the country's relation to the national average. I think it speaks for the benefit of the Christian People's Party that the occasion has not been used for the kind of vimpellifting in the context of a research report on national efforts. There is another question I would like to have had a small depression on from the representative Lyngstad. After all, there is a clear majority in the Committee behind the proposal for a significant increase in the capital of the research fund, and this is also mentioned by a majority of the Right, Workers' Party and SV. Now the government parties are with us on the proposal, but not on the basis of which the proposal is based. It is therefore interesting to ask the representative Lyngstad to elaborate on how, for his part, he interprets the term ‘significant increase’. What does ‘significant increase’ mean in this context as government parties see it? It is also perhaps permissible to refer to an opinion that I have captured from a person in the Norwegian research community, who is a comment on this significant and substantial investment, namely that it is an advantage for Norwegian research when the Workers' Party is in opposition, because then the Workers' Party usually has much better advice than when they are in charge themselves. But what do the government parties put in the expression ‘significant increase’?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e531	The president got a moment's notice that this was a line to the Workers' Party, but she realized that it was to Arne Lyngstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e535	I have to make it clear that I have an commitment both to the Outer Namdalen and the Inner Namdalen – to the representative's payroll information. But I want to say that also the Christian People's Party believes we need a significant increase in the capital of the research fund. The Research Fund shall be an important tool for achieving the objectives of our research policy. It is important that those funds are in addition to the ordinary appropriations. We are also in agreement with the majority on the basis of which the proposal is based. However, we have not yet found reason to indicate what the fund's size should be. I also have to say that the majority wording here, NOK 10 – 15 billion, suggests that the amount indicated may not be very reflected either. For our part, it is clear that there is a need here for a significant increase in addition to what exists there today, and the framework for this and the escalation here we are given the opportunity to come back to in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e542	First of all, I would say that we in the Workers' Party have an commitment not only to North Norway, but to all those regions that are in a way now weaker in this area. But the point of the thing about North Norway is that what the part of the country points out, is that you actually only have half of the money that you would have if you were to take the population as the starting point. We are together with the centre parties in a note saying that research is an important tool for regional innovation, economic development and housing, and we assume that the needs of the regions will also be met in the planned strengthening of Norwegian research. But the point is, and the problem is, it doesn't come of itself. To give a concrete example, some of the most important challenges we face in research are the commercialization of research results, i.e. the process from some people to creating a viable business out of it. In other words, the mechanisms they operate today are largely supporting companies that have conducted research for a while, which are up and going, to large, strong companies. So now the government has put down a sample to look at the commercialization of the research results. I don't know the people who sit in this selection very well, but they're probably very good all of them. But there's no one from North Norway there, and that's kind of symptomatic of the situation we're in, that there are some very strong centralization forces in society, and we have to be aware of that not only when we have a debate about district policy statements, but also in the other debates, because there's actually a connection between these things. So I just want to ask the representative Lyngstad again about the first thing I asked: is it that you have discussed this with the Nordic representatives, and do they agree with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e551	I am pleased that the Workers' Party has an involvement for all parts of the country, and I actually experience it so that both the suspension and the announcement from the Government have a balanced view of the importance of research for regional development around. What I'm experiencing is the main challenge of North Norway in terms of research efforts, is to increase the industry's share of this in the country. This is a challenge that is linked, inter alia, to: to the structure of activity. However, now that we have a thematic area within the marine sector, it also means that it facilitates research development, a research effort, precisely in areas where the continent has good opportunities to reach. I agree with the representative, Mr Konglevoll, that it is important that both in committees and in selection, professional experts from all over the environment are represented. It is a danger if, for example, the structure is structured. in the Research Council, a mere recruiter from a particular professional environment. And I have faith that you can also bring experts from all over the country. When we think about North Norway in concrete terms, we know that the continent has very good assumptions in space technology, in medical technology, etc. All these environments are leading. And then I'm a little surprised that the Workers' Party so violently raises the needs of this part of the country, when one knows that they also have good qualities in many areas that make them competitive in the fight for research money.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e562	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e565	The research message has been received very well in the subject environment. It's a honeymoon that the Council of State and the Government can take inwards. The attitude has a solid majority behind it. In some areas, the setting goes beyond the message. It is good for research in general and for social development in particular. It's high time the bet came. Norway is far from the other countries it is natural to compare with other countries. The strong influx of students in the 1990s has made the research somewhat hungry, in the sense that the resources have not moved to the research section of relatively the same size. It is therefore good that a different method of funding is now proposed where basic appropriations are less determined by the number of students. The Government's objective of getting up at the average OECD level is fully supported by the Committee, and the Committee has even added the word'minimum' above average. Public task No. 1 is to take responsibility for the maintenance and further development of the knowledge public, i.e. universities, higher education institutions and the institutional sector. First of all, we want to strengthen long-term and fundamental research. The strengthening shall take the form of increased appropriations, re-priorities and returns of the newly established research fund. The message attaches great importance to quality and quality shall pay off in relation to appropriations. Strong international cooperation is also necessary for quality development. R & D activities at higher education institutions shall focus on areas where they have special assumptions and tasks and where they have node functions. It is important that universities build strong research environments. This shall contribute to targeted regional development. This requires close and close cooperation with local businesses and administrative authorities. It should be well suited for this when you see the interest in the establishment of knowledge and business parks around the country. Furthermore, it is important for business to be given financial incentives to invest more in R & D. The Hervik committee will make proposals on this later in the spring. I record some criticism from the majority that this work is not available at this time. I then recall that the research report was presented last June. That was eight months ago. With this perspective, the criticism basically falls a little on its own unreasonableness. The Central Party is pleased with the Government's proposal on four specific priority areas. At the same time, it is important to stress that other areas should not be neglected. Traditional industry and nature-based industries, such as: forests, minerals and mining must be further developed. Of these areas, marine research is likely to be the area with the highest value creation potential. I refer to a look-up on TV 2 here a day, where the value creation potential was estimated at NOK 230 billion. The search light was set there on the marine ingredient industry, which includes everything outside the fish meat. Invols and other wastes that were previously disposed of at sea are a very important medical resource, according to researchers who participated in the programme. So marine research is much more than resource management research, which itself is very important. Medicine and health and ICT are other areas of activity. Here I want to bring forward telemedicine as an important field with the aim of reaching more patients in a shorter time. This will save patients for long journeys, while saving society in the long term. The point of intersection between environment and energy is the fourth priority area. In this context, the majority of the Committee has highlighted the development of technologies that can reduce CO2 emissions from gas power plants and considers that Norway should become a leading country in this area. State councillor Arnstad has already suggested 200 million. kr on the next year's budget for such a programme, and that is very positive. Having said that, I would like to stress the importance of multi-disciplinary and multidisciplinary research against the fields of activity. It's very important to get the humanistic disciplines and the social angle in it all. The message and the setting are ambitious. It requires a similar financial contribution both from the State budget and from the business community. More scientists are needed. The aim of the Committee is to provide 900 new researchers over a period of five years. It's going to be a challenge that requires multi-stakeholder leverage. The central party belongs to the majority who asks the Government to assess current legislation regarding residence and work permits for foreign researchers. We believe it is pointless that people who have received their research training here cannot work here for a period of time because of rigid legislation. It is a pity if these young researchers have to travel to, for example, U.S.A. The centre party is concerned that the whole country must take part in the strong research effort, in the case of North Norway as well as Inland Norway. It shall be based on quality and node functions. We haven't chosen to pull out and set up continents against each other in this setting. But let's be clear that of course we have all the parts of the country in our bets.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e595	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e598	Of course, the last part of the post I was happy to hear, but that's not what I want to ask about. In the last line change, i.e. after the introduction by the representative Lyngstad, the representative Wohnung had a question that went on this with the research fund. It was created for a time ago as one of the ways to finance Norwegian research, and as the only way to get completely free money into the system. It is in so far as a system that the Committee concludes quite unanimously and believes is good and a good way to finance Norwegian research. I'm glad that the Center Party and Center are in on it, just as I'm glad that they're involved in tightening up their own government in relation to committing them and themselves more in order to get to a escalation. But then there's one sentence in the setting where they're jumping off, and that's when the Workers' Party, the Right and the SV suggest that the management capital of the fund should amount to between 10 and 15 billion kroner over five years. The reason why that amount stands there is because we're afraid that the government and the government parties have a much smaller level of ambition, that we think they would have increased much less than that, and that in some way they don't have the same ambitions that the majority now have. Therefore, I would like to ask the representative of Tingelstad: does she believe that when the state sells out shares – whether it is in a bank or whether it sells properties or at all – it is, in principle, much better to put all the funds in the oil fund abroad instead of using them in a domestic fund to finance Norwegian research? And how much does the Center Party think is a significant increase? Is a significant increase more or less than 10-15 billion? So is a significant increase of 1 billion or 25 billion? What is the central party adding to the concept of a ‘significant increase’ of the research fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e607	I actually thought that the representative Norvoll had used the opportunity to stress me a little bit more in relation to why I was not in the North Norway bet, because there I had a whole list of arguments that I should have had the honour of getting over and conveyed. I had checked that out, so I was well prepared for it. But I can do that on another occasion. With regard to the question of the research fund, I understand that it is the main thing that the government parties are now to be asked about. Let me first say that the research fund came in this period, not while the Workers' Party was in government. We're glad the research fund came. I know from earlier periods that the Ministry of Finance is not very happy with funds in itself, I have understood that, but it is a different dish. I just notice that we've got a research fund that I think is very good, and I think it's a very good investment just to put money into future development, both education and research. So it's a point: what's significant? Yeah, that's a little bit of a philosophical question. Significantly, there may be a lot of variation. I understand that the majority also means when they say NOK 10-15 billion. For let's take a calculation: according to the adjustment, the fund is 3 billion, but I remember in the 2000 budget it's 4 billion, because the government came up with another 1 billion – that should also be mentioned. So let's start at 15 billion, if that's the majority's goal. This is actually 100 pst. increase in total. If you divide 15 billion into five years, it's 3 billion per. years. If you're going to have 15 billion over a five-year period, that means that we're going to increase by 3 billion each year, and if we're going to, it's 100 pst. increase. This is a very significant increase. But I want to say that it's hard to quantify a certain amount, so we found that it was okay to just say ‘significant’.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e616	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e619	There is reason to commend the Council of State for a good message. That's good descriptions, and that's good analysis. But then the Council of State also got some help from the Storting in March, when a unanimous increase ended up on a proposal from the Swedish Government that in the next few years we should rise to the average OECD level in terms of research. Initially, I would like to highlight two areas in which I believe the message is not entirely consistent. First of all, it's too non-committal in terms of economics, it's too unambitious. And secondly, the soft subjects – the social sciences and the humanistic subjects – have been a little lost in all the nutritious things, in all the value creation. In these two areas, the Committee has tightened up the notification. We're talking about increasing public spending by at least 750 million. kr, maybe a billion each year. Without a more obligating plan, this becomes easily a blow in the air. The next stop has been the revision of the national budget for spring, and there, the Storting will adopt a hopefully binding escalation plan. In the case of research training, the number of committees has become somewhat more ambitious than the government provided. We want to increase the amount of research training beyond what is in the notification. Now you could say an increase of 750 million. to 900 million. is not very dramatic, but it is primarily a signal that research training will be an important field of action in the future. Over 20 years, 800 000 new jobs need to be created in Norway. It is the ECON Centre for Economic Analysis that has estimated this, and this is a projection based on historical data and experience. It is therefore natural that the idea of value creation is central. We support the proposal on four areas of activity. In Norway, we have chosen a trend with a high level of wages and costs, and it also has other countries that we want to compare with. This should not be an accident for Norway, we should take advantage of this, and in Norway we should not compete at cost. So we have to take advantage of other advantages, and one of the advantages that we have is a highly educated population. We're going to have peak competence in specific areas, and we're going to develop products and services with high knowledge embedded. But it's getting a little bit too simple, and it can also be a little dangerous, if this means a one-sided commitment to the technological disciplines and disciplines. It does little to cope with important technological advances if we do not understand how these are to be implemented, implemented, and we need to understand the relationship between organisation and creative environments. I am therefore pleased that the Stortinget will today make a decision to include interdisciplinary perspectives in the thematic areas. It is a proposal that we have made. This should be a signal to the Research Council that multidisciplinary perspectives – the societal and humanistic environments – must also be included in the user-driven programmes targeted at the thematic areas of activity. A majority of the Committee says that a greater proportion of the appropriations devoted to fundamental research should be channelled towards the institutions, i.e.: universities and colleges. This is important, for two reasons: firstly, it will speed up the strategic debates around the institutions. Universities and colleges, when they get larger appropriations directly into their budgets, have to go through this and give priority, and they have to put their strategic plans in a different way than before. It is also important psychologically because it shows that a majority in the United Kingdom will invest in the institutions – at universities and colleges. It's a psychological element here that's important and that can stimulate what's going to happen at universities and colleges. A majority of the Committee also states that the higher education institutions should be responsible for basic research. Where the environment is at the heart of what we can establish professionally strong environments, i.e. good research environments, which should also be the responsibility of universities for basic research. It is an important signal to give to these institutions. It's not right when the Labour Party says that the majority won't bet on the districts. The most important thing to do is to increase the basic appropriations of the institutions. It is in this way that we can invest in the districts and show that the work is happening and the research that is going on in the institutions is important. That's what the majority agrees to. There is also a need to clarify the relationship between regional colleges and regional institutes. We need to achieve better coordination between institutes and colleges in order for them to become heavy and strong professional environments in the regional, local and environmental contexts. Today, it doesn't work well enough. The Committee is aware that we want to stimulate closer cooperation so that these institutions can take advantage of each other's advantage. I am also pleased that the Committee is aware that the knowledge developed in the user-driven projects will fall to the knowledge-based public. It's an important principle, and it's important to establish it. Now I think the Research Council is quite aware of this. Nevertheless, I think it is important that the Committee now says it as clearly as it does, that with regard to the user-driven programmes, we must ensure that the knowledge developed there falls to the knowledge-based public opinion. After all, it might be 50 pst. of what is allocated to user-driven programmes and projects, public funds, and then there should be no need for the Community to ensure that the knowledge developed there is not due to the dissemination of knowledge or, in this case, to the institutions. And we stress that the best way to do this is to make sure that scholarship holders are linked to the user-driven projects. In this way, we are able to ensure that the knowledge that is being developed and the innovation that is happening happens and comes back to the institutions. I am pleased that we in SV have agreed to underline this. I wish the committee had been a little clearer about saying something about the art schools. They themselves have developed some exciting models of developing programmes for performers. The majority of the committee says something – it's going a long way. I would like them to follow up our proposal; we have put forward a concrete proposal for the development of this type of programme. I still choose to perceive it so that the Council of State has got a recording. The majority have said something about this, and then you should go back to college with it and look at what can be developed by programs for those who have ambitions to become performers. So a little bit about the research fund. It has been produced as it is the solution in many ways. We in SV are in the majority, but we do not see that this is what will solve future financing far from it. The future financing of Norwegian research, the part to be provided by the public, will have to come as direct appropriations for the State budget. Those who don't realize it have misunderstood quite roughly. That's the actual situation, and then we can develop a research fund that can give some returns. Nevertheless, there will be a supplement to the annual appropriations for the State budget. We are involved in increasing the funding for the research fund – it is an idea that we have taken from a number of other countries that have developed different research funds. Here we are betting on a purely state fund. In other countries, they have developed a lot of other funds. I don't think this is anything strange seductive, but it might be a supplement. That is why we are in favour of this. And when we first have this research fund, at least we have to give it a capital, so that it is possible to get a return. 10-15 billion might be worth 600-700 million. kr in returns that can go to research – and that can be a good supplement. But anyway, this is going to be a supplement and not the main way we're financing it. I'm glad we've had a majority for most of our proposals. Then we're just left with one, and I'm going to take that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e645	Rolf Rikham has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e651	I agree that one SV proposal in a setting may be a bit at least, but I note that SV has had a constructive attitude to the work on the research report, and that SV is also part of the broad majority available here. When the representative, in his criticism of the message, says it is a little ambitious, it is a well-known characteristic of SV. The problem with SV may be that SV has many ambitions, and then some of the challenge is to prioritise between them. But I expect the SV of course is fully behind what is being adopted today. When I take a line, it's because there's one position that surprises me a little bit in relation to SV. We have a thematic field of research that goes into the intersection of energy and the environment. Therefore, the majority have found reason to point out that Norway, as an energy nation, should also have an ambition to develop technologies that can reduce CO2 emissions from gas power plants. There's been an SV on the outside for a reason. I was a little surprised about that, because I thought it was completely in line with SV's approach to climate policy that one here would also try to develop new and better technologies that could solve the climate problem. I find reason to challenge SV: What is the reason why you do not want to participate in such a venture?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e665	I can reassure Arne Lyngstad that we are going to support the proposals that we ourselves have promoted, for which we have received a majority in the committee, so he should not worry about that. Most of them are actually pretty good too. I started by giving praise to the Council of State for a fairly good message both when it came to the description and analysis. So I drew out a few areas where I thought it was a little too bad, and it was that it was too non-obligatory when it came to economics, and that was what goes on in the more humanistic subjects. I had hoped that others might have commented a little bit more. But in any case, our ambitions for Norwegian research for the next five years are reflected in this position, and they are largely the same as the majority – we are behind it and expect it to be a majority in this assembly. We have raised the level of ambition in terms of research education, and that is what I stressed. We have also raised the level of ambition in terms of precision and in terms of obligations. That's what was important to me. I hope and believe that, when we come to the revised national budget, we will have a more obligating escalation plan. It's an ambition, a hard ambition, and we'll see how the other parties stand. It means, as I said, that we have to increase the appropriations annually. As early as 2001, we have to spend almost DKK 1 billion more on the State budget for research. That's the actual situation, and then I sincerely hope you're in. With regard to the thematic areas of research, we chose not to go in and pick out certain parts. We've joined the thematic areas without going in and starting to detail these more than what's there. Of course, we are interested in researching gas and gas power plants, finding new technology – for all things – but the context in which it was located, and the fact that we did not need to extract certain parts, made us not aware of that comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e676	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e679	Many would agree that we are facing a time gap in the case of Norwegian research efforts. It has been written and said good words about research before, but the research communities should be calm this time. Today, a broad majority in the United Kingdom are joining forces to make commitments to significantly increase research efforts. We're even raising the list even higher than the already ambitious goal of the Government. This obligates. But I'm sure it's over when the research budgets suffered for other priorities in the sector. The left went into the government with the promise to strengthen the research, so on behalf of my party I can promise that at least we will continue to prioritise research. Today, when we have a sort of debate about who was first and who would give the most, I think this should go well. For the Left, it is also important that the Storting joins the Government's research policy strategy, namely that quality should be given priority. We need to concentrate research funds on the good research environments. This is in line with the policy we adopted at our national meeting last year. I am also pleased that the Storting did not fall for the temptation to expand the number of priority areas. There is now a consensus that when Norway and Norwegian industry are going to grow in the international economy, there must be a significant long-term investment in research in areas where Norway is already taking advantage and is able to raise itself internationally. The fact that the Research Council will now launch research to find solutions that can turn natural gas into fish feed is an excellent example of this. If researchers succeed in converting natural gas into bioproteins, this could be a basis for value creation up to DKK 150 billion in the marine sector. In these gas times, this is an interesting perspective. This is also an example that illustrates that there is long-term basic research that is going to lay the foundation for the innovation we need, to have something to live on in the future. There should be no contrast between academia and business. So far, there's been a kind of cultural background between these worlds. The left does not want the two worlds to become one in any way. Business is to earn money, universities and colleges have a completely different role. But there doesn't have to be a contradiction between increased academic freedom and more business out of the academic community. The challenge is to establish closer cooperation between business and research and educational institutions and a mutual understanding of each other's roles and values. It is of course good that research can be of direct benefit to business or government, but it is equally necessary for researchers to be able to conduct basic research in areas that do not immediately fit into a cost-benefit analysis. The critical public depends on the participation of researchers in their knowledge of social, cultural and technological developments. In particular, it is important that researchers retain their role as a democratic counter-power to authorities and businesses. This means that a large proportion of research resources must be free — in the form of increased basic appropriations. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee places emphasis on this in its position and that we stress the role of the institutions as principal in the field of fundamental research. The same majority add to a slightly higher level of ambition for new recruitment positions. But at the same time, we recognise that it is not just increasing the number of posts – people have to fill the places. Especially in some disciplines, it has proved very difficult to make young people choose a research career. It is therefore important that the authorities, together with the institutions, implement the necessary incentives to increase recruitment. In this context, I am very pleased that there is now a majority who want to liberalise the rules on work and residence permits for foreign researchers. This is entirely in line with the policy that the Left wants. Hopefully, this will lead some foreign researchers who have participated in Norwegian research education to choose to continue their efforts in Norway instead of going to the United States or other Western countries, because competition for the good minds will be tougher in the future, both nationally and internationally. It is this fight Stortinget and the Government now equips Research Norway. In short, we need to invest in human beings, as the heading of the Left's educational policy programme says.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e705	After all the sun brands, the research report and the treatment of this in Stortinget mean that we will have a strong boost for Norwegian research. That's very good, and basically the setting is characterized by a broad consensus. I say essentially – and there is one area in particular where there is disagreement between the Labour Party on the one hand and the other parties on the other. It's been illuminated by the string exchange. So we believe that when we're faced with as much increased a stake as we're doing now, of course, quality should be the most important thing. But we also need to have a conscious commitment based on the fact that research creates ring-effects and that it should create ring-effects across the country. When we're going to distribute as much money as we're talking about now, we also need to be able to think about regional distribution. And all of these five areas where we in the Workers' Party stand alone in this setting form a whole that would lead to – we believe – both more research in the regions of Norway and that research could create more positive ring-effects, among other things. several business start-ups, increased profitability and development within e.g. the marine industry. We have discussed several of these points in the debate so far, but I would like to mention two of them in particular. The first concerns the R & D levy for the fisheries and aquaculture industries. A unanimous committee stated that the funds from the R & D levy should be made available by the industry. It will mean more research and development in the districts along the coast. Then we know that there is a expectation in the industry that the state will also contribute. The increase in the cost of R & D in the industry will mean that there will be twice as much funding in those areas where the industry wants it to be researched. The other applies to North Norway. North Norway has about 10 pst. by the population, but only about 5 pst. the research funds are used in the northern part of the country. When we then recognise that there is research that will form the basis for the new jobs and for new incomes to society, and when it is recognised as an important reason for increasing R & D funds by perhaps NOK 8-9 billion, we believe in the Workers' Party that we must have the objective of getting up on the national average. Obviously, we need to focus on quality, but there are several areas where you have good research environments. This applies to marine research, space and atmosphere research and telemedicine, and also to polar research. The point is that with as strong centralization forces as they are now swinging, strengthening these environments is something that doesn't come of itself. Polar research is a good example of this. When the Polar Institute was moved to Tromsø, it was after a long and tough fight. Now there is a strong research environment in polar research in Tromsø, an environment that is also attractive internationally, also because it is exotic to it, there is a lot of snow there – it may be a nuisance other times, but just when it comes to recruiting polar researchers, it is a great advantage. Another example is medical training. The last number I've heard now is that 14 out of 45 professors at the Faculty of Medicine in Tromsø are unoccupied. When medical training in Tromsø was established, it was quite conscious that in order to recruit professionals, things had to be offered that were better than at the other faculties. And then, at the beginning of the 1970s, it helped, of course, that there were many sixty-eight people who wanted to travel up in pure idealism to build up the part of the country. But in addition to having very many idealists, there were red research budgets, there were also red budgets for, for example. to travel. Now each professor and each teacher has, about 10 000 kroner to travel for. Now we don't pay for our tickets when we're out flying, but I happened to check the prices the last time I was in Tromsø. Then my ticket cost over NOK 5000. 10 000 kroner for two Oslo tours, but you can't afford to pay a fee to attend conferences. The representative, Inge Wohnning, felt that regional policy considerations had nothing to do with this debate. The most important thing today is to bring together a strong commitment to research, but it must be possible to have more ideas in mind at one time – research policy, industrial policy, district policy, health policy, distribution policy. There's a connection between these things, and there's a connection that I've seen that the Mayor and the Head of the Central Party, Odd Roger Enoksen, is about to lift. He wants to shift district policy and focus more on research and higher education. For the moment, it is only to note that he does not have the central parts of Stortinget with him on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e722	It is a happy minister of research who is today standing on the pulpit here in Stortinget. The committee is asking that we agree that Norway should maintain a time gap in its research policy. I want to use the opportunity to give a special honor to the case manager, Inge Wohnung, both for the work on the setup and for the article today. I agree with the case spokesperson that this is one of the most important issues that Stortinget is handling during this period. Then there's a paradox that makes a lot of sense in the social debate. I think the setting up of the committee here should be one of the most important issues that the media was actually concerned about. Some researchers should be commended for their active participation in the debate, but unfortunately the media have shone with their absence after the committee was finished. We're -- across all of the party boundaries -- agreed on a greater share of our total value added will be used for investment in research, so that Norway, over the next five-year period, will at least reach the OECD average, measured as part of GDP, that it is important to establish and develop new mechanisms to achieve this. The Research and Innovation Fund is an important example. Measures to stimulate business to increase R & D efforts are another way in which the next few years will focus on specific initiatives in the field of marine research, information and communication technologies, medicine and health and research in the field of energy and the environment that quality should be given greater priority in the allocation of public funds, and that a strategy for this is active participation in international cooperation that a continuous and open research-ethical debate is important and that it should take place within the framework of today's schemes. Furthermore, there is a solid multiplicity behind the proposal to strengthen the long-term fundamental research of the knowledge public, at the institutions where such research takes place. The Committee encourages the preference to keep it as profiled as it is in these areas. When it comes to universities and colleges, many of the fundamental questions will first be highlighted in the research policy shift that comes in the wake of the Mjøs selection, when they present their position in April. I notice that a majority in the Committee magnifies the Government's assessment of different models for a new funding system for universities and universities. It is important to put in place a new funding system that can also focus more on research, so that there will be no number of students determining the scope of research efforts in different disciplines. I agree with the majority that it will be important to strengthen research strategic work at institutions, to stimulate ongoing and future adjustments, and to strengthen the role of institutions as principal investigators for basic research. These processes should go hand in hand. It should be easier to direct the basics towards research using a new funding system. It is well in line with the government's prioritisation of the long-term fundamental research in the knowledge-based public opinion that there should be significant growth in the basic research rights of universities and higher education institutions. There is a broad consensus that quality should be given greater emphasis than today. Even if there isn't a set of generally accepted criteria, it's important that we go ahead of the quality path. There's only one division in research, and it's international. One sometimes gets the impression that Norwegian research is in crisis. Then it's good to get results on the table that show that it doesn't look just black. The latest result I have noticed concerns figures for the first year of the EU's fifth framework programme in the key area of marine ecosystems. Norwegian researchers participated in half of the projects here! The quality of the Norwegian marine research environment is high. We can't expect to be equally strong in all fields, but the goal must be that several Norwegian research communities claim to be in international competition. This will be actively stimulated by a more systematic use of evaluations, quality premium and a forward-looking research system to identify some key actions. I also believe that the Research Council – a system that distributes money to the best researchers or research community, based on competition and based on national assessments – seems to be of good quality. Such schemes, where research councils have a role as complementary funding channels to institutions’ basic budgets, are found in most countries. I note that a number of members of the Committee are major members of the Government of the Institute's policy, including the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. by emphasising the combination of good quality assurance arrangements with the aim of providing institutions with conditions for the pursuit of long-term development of competence. Recruitment is a central theme of research policy. Even if a number in the committee add the list a little higher than us, I find that here too we agree on the most important thing. At the same time as we step up the recruitment, we have to make sure that the conditions for conducting research are attractive. Equipment, operation and quality must be invested. It is not least for those disciplines where it is particularly difficult to obtain good recruits today. And we have to sew it because the environment has the capacity to accept more recruits. Recruitment options are funded by different sources of funding and by different tools. It's coming, for example. many scholarships through public research and private sources funded by commercial law. The majority of the Committee also points this out when they consider that ‘the number of grant holders associated with user-driven applications should be increased’. The 150 or 200 new scholarship holders that will be placed each year will thus not be visible as ear-taged settings on a budget line. But the goal, as a minimum goal, is to be achieved through different instruments. The basic budget for universities will be an important channel, but recruitment will continue to be funded through the Research Council and other sources. Postdoctoral scholarship options are also provided. The government sees research as an important tool for regional renewal and industrial development, and enters the research message to strengthen the public spheres of government through the focus on the knowledge base. We will further develop the regional innovation environment, and the regional perspective will be integrated into the thematic initiatives. Let me return to the pecuniary. We saw early on that it was necessary to put in place new financial mechanisms and instruments if we were to achieve the goal. The Research and Innovation Fund, which will help to strengthen the long-term fundamental research, is in place and will be strengthened in the coming years. I'm quite satisfied with the broad connection the Stortinget gives the fund. But the fund is not enough! The government clearly sees a need to develop good arrangements to boost business R & D efforts. We therefore rapidly reduce the Hervik selection, which will propose how best to stimulate increased R & D efforts in business. The paint is ambitious. The latest estimate shows that reaching an average OECD level will require a total increase of $8-9 billion. These funds do not come from themselves, but must be achieved through tough public budget priorities and through measures to stimulate business to increase R & D efforts. A number of people in the committee write: ‘There is reason to recall that the Government and the Stortinget have several times in the past adopted similar ambitious objectives for a stronger commitment to research and development.’... ‘Unfortunately, the results are not proportionate to the objectives.’ As politicians, we must take a shared responsibility for it. Now let's take a shared responsibility for history not repeating itself – a shared responsibility for the future. The broad cross-political agreement in the committee setting promises well. I have noticed that the Committee is impatient and expects both a rapprochement plan and proposals based on the Hervik Committee to be ready for the revised national budget. I can promise that we will do and do our best to get things to Stortinget in a good and quick way. The fact that the size that is currently handling the research message is gathering time should also be a good promise in view of a mandatory escalation. Finally, just a few words about what has almost been a main theme, at least with regard to what has been of political dissatisfaction in the Chamber today, the regional perspective and North Norway. The full message has been added to the perspective that this should also work regionally. I also believe that if we go through the practice of this government when it comes to the allocation of study places to the universities, when it's up to 15 million. kr to regional research foundations, where the award of titles and doctoral degrees in the regional universities is involved, yes, this Government is well placed in relation to the two previous worker party governments. We have shown through practice that we give priority to the whole country. But at the same time, we didn't think we were going to destroy such a prospecting debate as it has been suggested by the committee and the case leader's side, pretending that we disagree with something that we are actually a few about.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e786	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e789	The Minister of Research is happy today, and that's why he's getting a drag help here in the Stortinge today that he's barely received from his government so far. Therefore, I do not understand why the Council of State is so vague when it comes to concrete follow-up, to which the Stortinget actually commits the Council of State – vague when it comes to recruitment, nothing about, for example. the research fund, which, in the case of the sale of state shares, shall amount to DKK 3 billion to NOK 10-15 billion. The Council of State also says nothing about the fact that in the notification he commits the Government to NOK 5 billion in the next few years, where NOK 3 billion will come from a business that consists of tiny small businesses. The role of the public must also be quite significant here. The council also says that he notices that the Storting is impatient, and that he should do as best he can. No, it's not just that! An obligatory plan shall be presented for both public and business activities and shall be presented in the revised national budget. I ask the Council of State to confirm this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e794	I want to actually start the answer to this line by distributing some more flowers, to the leader of the committee, as she was a leader, has been very eager to improve her research situation. I have to say that the committee leader Grete Knudsen has been quite different from the government member Grete Knudsen in relation to how she and the previous labor party governments invested in research. Here, I'd like to give my compliments to the committee leader. It's quite right that I'm happy, and of course I'm also going to give it consequences for the way I follow up. I've seen what the committee says when it comes to the escalation plan. A stepping up plan must mean stepping up, which means that one does not insert everything the same. One is forced to look at what a recruiter and quality can build up, and then it will be a stepping-up – that means a staircase – and it will also look like what comes in relation to it. But when the Stortinge's plurality – a nearly consonant committee, as far as I'm concerned – says this, it's clear that it's being followed up. When it comes to business, I remind you of all the years we've spent here in Stortingen to argue about whether over-depreciation is a trick or not. That's why we put down a selection that I think has a lot of legitimacy, and which I hope will come as close as possible to the goal, so that we can now figure out what a wide selection of instinctively wants. In some areas, I'm thinking that we're going to be able to get it into revision, but the overall hearing process and the wholeness of the Hervik selection, we need to spend a little more time on it. But of course we're going to follow it up. When it comes to the fund, I'm glad it's a decision that says it should be a monthly escalation. How do I interpret it? Yes, I'm reading pretty well by myself, I see what the committee has said, and I see the level of precision there, 10-15 billion kroner. The same level of precision we're going to do, we're going to come back with a reasonable escalation in that area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e805	It would have been tempting to join this choir of mutual admiration. Instead, I'm going to say a few words about why the Progress Party has gone out of so many of the comments, and it's on something that the Progress Party has actually said a lot about. It depends on quality and it depends on the fact that we don't agree that it's enough to say a lot of words and have a lot of good intentions. You also have to try to prove that there's actually a conscious thought behind the words. At the institutions, for example, the Council of State has said, good quality assurance arrangements must be combined with the intention of providing institutions with conditions for the exercise of long-term competence development. I would be very interested to hear exactly what the Council of State is putting into the concept of quality assurance combined with long-term development of competence. It is very possible that we agree, so that we can agree on a later case proposal. Otherwise, I'm more of the opinion that this is about a somewhat inflated wish list for a Christmas event you might not fully believe in, because it's true, as the representative Knudsen said, 3 billion kroner from micro-enterprises in an international context is a significant amount. The progress party can never join a scheme where this becomes a charge imposed by law. I would very much like the Council of State to elaborate on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e817	Let me take the last one first: when it applies to this R & D fee, I also think it is important to have a fee that has a legitimacy for those who are going to pay the fee. Therefore, it is very safe to know that the industry itself has wished for this fee. It's a solidarity where these small businesses can get paid, so that they know they get a share in a good quality research that can develop this sector. I myself was at a conference in Bergen as late as two days ago when this was a main theme, with a view to the enormous potential for development and growth in aquaculture and fisheries, in which the main representatives of this industry thanked for the decision on the R & D fee. They were pleased that marine research was one of the four research areas. So here I think with respect to report that the Progress Party might have made contact with the industry, and they would have seen that it is not something that we are applying to the nutrition against their will. They're asking for the fee so they can take out the enormous potential that's there. So to quality, it's quite obvious that the Progress Party, the Government and the Plural are some that it's important. But it's actually not just beautiful words. We say a lot in the message about how we want to develop quality. And one thing we're going to do a lot more than before is use evaluations, including international evaluations. I believe that when we are going to claim ourselves in international research, it is also necessary that we set up an evaluation system. We write in the message about how we should do it, and here I understand that we have got a connection from the majority. So I hope it's right as the representative Evje said, next time we're on the same track half here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e826	The council said he read by heart. I would recommend that he preferably read the inside when it comes to dealing with the exact committee setting. Otherwise, let me say that I agree with the Council of State that it is quite thoughtful that when the Storting deals with a matter of this dimension, the press release is empty, while every time you treat a medium gas power plant, it is crowded. It tells a lot about the media's ability to keep track of proportions in today's society. The Council of State also said in its statement that the Government ‘prioritises the whole country’. I should have liked that to be clarified a little bit. Does it mean, for example, that the Government's objective is that all parts of the country should be above the national average? The word priority, if it's going to have any meaning, must mean that you deliberately put something in front of something else. But to what's my real question to the Council of State. In his speech, the Council of State said that he regards the Research Council as ‘a system that distributes money’. There must be a modest expression in such a heavy institution as the Norwegian Research Council. The Governments did not comment on what the Committee said about the evaluation of the research advisory system. That is why I would like to confirm that the Council of State has noticed the importance and implementation of this, and that the Council of State has also taken note of what we are saying about the need to strengthen the coordination of research efforts across the ministerial boundaries. For example, the Council of State would: Is it an advantage to link this coordination function up to the Prime Minister in the future to really highlight the weight and significance of this? And then finally, President, if I may...
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e839	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e842	Can the Council confirm that he will come back with the two escalation plans, both for the research fund and for the research appropriations, in the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e847	When it comes to the last question, I refer to my previous answer, to the representative Grete Knudsen. What the Storting will of course be followed up, but also with the nuances I gave in relation to this when it came to the Hervik selection, where I quoted what the case spokesperson had said. When I said that we're prioritizing the whole country, it was based on the research message putting in a way of thinking about research and development that will benefit the whole country, without us scattering the funds evenly, but keeping the quality perspective that one has here. It was only in relation to quality development that I mentioned the Research Council in the way that the representative now commented, because the assessment of applications is in itself quality-promoting, when it is done in a just and good way. And when it comes to the evaluation of it, of course, I have noticed what has been said, and I am very happy that it is consistent with the way I have put it up. There we have just carried out a fairly broad, informal hearing process with the research community, the university environment and the university leadership on a mandate and a presentation of what kind of international evaluation would be desirable. So what the committee says here is completely consistent with what has been set up. It may well be that an actual thinker is quite similar there, as the Council of State, the Government and the Committee have thought about research in total. When it comes to coordination, of course, it's because we're re-creating the government's research selection, as the government of Jagland had done. That's an important reason why the message was as good as it was – I'm glad that the case spokesperson has also said it is good. How to organise it further, we'll get back to it, but coordination in the government is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e858	I think it is a good thing that the Council of State has already learned the setting separately. This would indicate that it would have a good destiny. So to a few things that I think are a little fuzzy, and that I at least want a confirmation from the Council of State on. First of all, it's about the growth of basic research. The majority of the Committee says that a large part of the growth in basic research should be channelled directly towards the institutions. And the majority also agree that we should have a new funding system, a new model to finance our institutions. There are some indications that the new funding model will not be in place until 2002. That means that we want 2001 without a new model, but I would like the Council of State to confirm that he is already in the budget for 2001 to follow up what is in the majority position, that a large part of the growth – how much can we discuss, but a large part of the growth – is to be channelled directly against the institutions, not about the Strategic Programmes of the Research Council. Then I have another question, which goes into the multidisciplinary environments that I took up in my post. What goes on in the softer subjects – the humanities and social sciences – is not so much affected in the communication, so my question to the Council of State is: Is he prepared to give some leadership to the Research Council, so that one can gain this interdisciplinary perspective with the other subjects, including the user-driven programmes? It would actually be important to raise the more soft subjects in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e867	I would like to comment on the two things that the representative Rikvam mentioned. When it comes to basic research and universities, I can confirm that I have noticed it, and that of course I will also deal with what the committee has said we should do. But there are two relationships around this that I think are important. The one thing is that there must be very clear demands on strategic programmes from the university's side when it comes to research, so that we don't just push evenly, but that one has taken the necessary priority discussion and strategic discussion at universities and universities. When it comes to funding, this will be a lot simpler – as the representative Rikvam also says – when we have the new way of financing. So I guess that's my attitude that we're already in the budget we're working on, that we're going to step up the part of the university and the high school school, but that we also have a real staircase there, assuming that we have to put in place both the funding system and the strategic plans before we finalize it. When it comes to the cross-sectoral, there is a fundamental perspective in the message in my view. I can, for example, Consider something that is extremely important here; one should have both the gender and regional weight within the individual four areas and, of course, in the long-term basic research, the soft areas should also be involved in the increased investment to which it has been allocated – and this should be done in a cross-sectoral way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e876	It almost seems as if the Council of State is a little was and hurt at the fact that someone takes the liberty of criticizing the government's efforts towards the districts, that we dare to pluck away at its self-satisfaction in relation to its own efforts in the districts. I don't want to waste the day of the Council of State, so I'm going to leave it now and go into what's the big numbers here. In previous replicons, the Council of State has now confirmed that it will provide a stepping-up plan for the publicly funded part of the research in revision and that it will come back with a stepping-up plan for the Fund in revision. Then there's one point left, and that's business research. There were some reservations. The Communication states that 3 of the 5 billion DKK of increase that the Government is talking about is going to come from business. That's 60 pst. In any case, if you want to follow that scale, it is assumed that more than half of the increase will come from business itself. After all, we have to believe in the Government when it writes in the message that it expects it to go well. When it says that it's a prerequisite, we have to assume that the government thinks this can go well. Then I must be allowed to ask the Council of State if it is such that he is now starting to get scared, and I am afraid that it is not possible to achieve that goal of stepping up even in business. What is crucial is that we get started quickly. Of course, we have to deal with the Hervik Committee in its entirety, but if it takes a long time and we have to wait until then to take the concrete measures, then we have problems keeping the timetable. This is why the specific question is: does the Council of State believe that it is already possible in the revision to put in place measures that will be sufficient to enable business to take part in the stepping up of Norwegian research?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e885	I am very pleased that the representative Norvoll no let there be one perspective, and I hope then that what I said in relation to it, in a way is a nuance, which is also important to get into the debate. Then I will comment on what was now the main point of the representative Norvoll. Obviously, it would be a pity if we had had a statement that gave heavy and unconventional solutions to business already when we wrote the research message. I want to remind you that we had the Akvaag selection, and it was the previous government that had it to handle. It found that there was little from there the desired use, and there was a great debate around it. Part of us meant that e.g. overprice depreciation was a good way, it didn't mean the government that was dying. Instead of using this selection and entering what was left behind, this government wanted to come in with a selection that was heavy, hopefully consensual, and that made bold proposals. But then one actually had to bring down a new selection. They were given a rather short deadline, but they had to have a decent deadline. Therefore, it is not easy for me to comment today on how many of the measures I want to start, and how quickly we can get the health. But what I promise is – as I am challenged by the Committee, and as the case-speaker defined it – that part of the measures proposed when it comes to business initiation, I am prepared to return to the revised national budget. That's why I actually mean – and it's not self-interest, but it's a realism in it – that we've handled this reasonably rationally, in a way, assuming that the selection work that was before led was rejected by such a large part of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e894	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e897	Today I've even allowed myself to write a title on what I'm going to talk about – it's unusual that I have some special patches. I've written: Time for boasting of bets? I woke up today and heard Professor Inge Wohnning – no, today he was a great representative, it was the other day he was in the media as a professor – saying that it was a great day for Norwegian research, and he talked about that now there was a fund of NOK 10-15 billion, and a significant escalation. And that's what the Working Party and the Right have also talked about in the Chamber. I have reviewed the setting, and I see no proposals for appropriations here. I do not see any suggestions for appropriations where you also tell me where the money is taken from, and what else you could have spent the money for which it would of course go beyond. And I want to say that when you say in the committee's setting that the Stortinget has promised to escalate twice in the past, and there was nothing of that, then you should have been a little careful about squeaking out, with the best boastful attitudes: aren't we good, now it's really going to be okay in the research! You talk about an obligating plan. I've said that before, and I stand firm that when someone in this room uses the word 'obligatory', people outside this room have to ignore that expression, unless the decision is taken in such a form that you can go to the court to get it enforced. Political promises that cannot be made to the Court of Justice for enforcement are non-obligatory promises. It does not commit anything! And if we're going up by 8 to 9 billion kroner – which I understand at the Council of State that we're going to have to achieve this goal within five years – then you have to have a fund well over 15 billion kroner, if the return to be spent annually is going to be 8 to 9 billion more. So I allow myself to put a question mark by whether this is really such a very big day in terms of the amounts. I think we should be a little more respectful and humiliating to the Norwegian people and not imagining to the Norwegian people, research communities, universities and colleges that something is being done, before the donation takes place and that is concrete money they can relate to. In that way, this is not such a big day. It is also true that in the comments from the Workers' Party, Right and SV, there is a lot about money – NOK 10-15 billion. If the fund return is to be used, the annual amounts after this five-year escalation will not be as huge as anyone has presented. The proposal only says ‘significant’, and it is an assessment to the greatest extent. What is significant? If you increase the fund capital by 15 pst. Of what it is today, very many in this room will say that it is significant. I have been involved in political debates where by increasing a budget by 3 pst. has talked about this being a very sharp increase. Actually, decisions are inconclusive, except — and positive — for the Government to come back to revision with some plans. Then we get a new round, and then of course they know what happened to concreteization until then. What I'm also missing in the debate from those who excel each other in bragging about how much more money they're going to spend, and how many more people they're going to recruit for research, is that they also have honesty to say what they're going to downgrade. If we're going to have far more people involved in research, does that mean that we're going to have fewer nurses, fewer doctors, fewer dentists? What else are we going to have less of? And if you were to put the large amounts into these funds, what else could the funds have been used for -- hospitals, police stations, or something? In other words, I miss that honesty if you really want to strengthen something, that you might also say what you're willing to downgrade. In the Progress Party, we usually have no problem saying what we down priorities, we show in our state budget options a wide range of areas where we reduce. I want to say to all those who today are so impressed by these great, fine promises: take them with a pinch of salt, wait until money is granted before you begin to get a rush.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e913	The last article was almost an article against a Storing Message as a working form in Stortinget more than anything else. So to the point. It has been claimed – most recently today – that we in Norway need 200,000 new businesses or 800,000 new jobs in 20 years to keep up employment and well-being. Of course, for the Labour Party, securing employment and well-being for people will be among the most central political goals in the years to come. In order to do this, it is necessary to create close to 30 enterprises and approx. 110 jobs every day for 20 years. This will be required, and it will require a strong and collective effort from all the actors involved. New jobs can be created in new and old enterprises, in large and small enterprises and in districts and central districts. Common to them is that all new processes and products will have strong elements of competence in themselves. It does not only apply to the ICT sector. I've been on a lot of company visits in the last few years. What may strike me the most, is how much competence there is behind the production of a door, a pan, a bicycle, or behind services that care for the hair or the noise of a staircase. The competences gained may be the result of basic research, research, inventions and more common development work carried out in the individual enterprise or in interaction between enterprises. In this sense, it is not entirely right to separate competence-based enterprises from more traditional enterprises. Let me use pots as a sample. In my municipality, the Polaris pots are produced. Polaris' success has, in addition to a wide range of products, been the pot bottom. These patents are developed in the company, but they are based on knowledge that is also developed at the second level, probably also linked to basic research. In addition to the fact that this is likely to make it interesting for new owners and thus still ensures employment and value creation on the Jären, it is a good example that there is a need to invest in basic research, nutrition research and development in and outside the company. When Stortinget dealt with a research report in the 1992-93 session, the ambitions and objectives were also to increase the research effort, among others. from the public. It held in the first round of the budget, but then it was rather a sad development. I don't think it'll happen now, for two reasons. The only thing is that the insight is deeper and broader when it comes to how decisive the research is for us in the future. The second is that the level of precision in comments and proposals for decisions today is better. I have also noticed that there is a wide variety of behind important suggestions. It also helps. Research is discussed in many contexts in this room, including: in connection with the business message and with the perspective message for fish. In the setting of the nutrition notification, the Committee said, inter alia: the importance of research, development and innovation as a priority for the future business community, and the need to focus on long-term business law research with particular emphasis in areas where Norway has a leading competence in university, research institute and business cooperation must be strengthened that research results should be commercialised to a greater extent; The Labour Party also stressed the importance of partnerships between business, education and research, and the need to stimulate entrepreneurship and innovation in school and working life. A lot of this is followed up today. I shall not repeat the Foundation for the Workers' Party's strong support for decisions taken here today on a stepping-up plan to enter the OECD within five years. The working party is in favour of increasing resources for basic research at universities and higher education institutions, for offensive investment in recruitment settings, for equality and multidisciplinary measures and for increasing fund capital in the research fund. Finally, I would like to point out two special comments from the Working Party, which I have a problem understanding why there is not a multiple at the back. The one debt to ask the Ministry if existing instruments can be better anchored in the regions. The second, which is a proposal, is that the Labour Party assumes that a regional distribution should also be taken into account and that new disciplines can be considered when creating a new centre. It's an important incentive not only to bet where a person has all the skills, but also to try to develop new ones. I'm because we bet where we are, or can be good, and I therefore support suggestions about the bet area. However, we should not create rigid systems, systems that prevent good ideas from being released because they do not fit in, or because they are found in institutions that do not already have top skills in the area. It's a good message, it's an even better setting. Research-Noreg must be happy, I think, in spite of what Hagen no said. Now it's just to fold up and start up new inventions, with new development work, with nutrition research and basic research. Then we get the new jobs we need to secure employment and well-being for our children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e952	I am very pleased with the broad opening up of the main lines of the research message, and with the fact that the Storting is in agreement with the view that the marine sector is important for the development of future Norway. There are enormous opportunities for increased national value creation in the fishing industry and, in particular, the aquaculture industry and the widespread exploitation of marine resources. The value of Norwegian oil and gas deposits will decline in the years ahead. The fishing and aquaculture industries have the potential to cover too much of this reduction in income. Increased R & D efforts provide the basis for realising the high value creation potential of the fisheries and aquaculture industries. On Tuesday I attended the Research Council's conference on marine research. This has strengthened and confirmed my faith in the research's contribution to raising the industry in the future. The fishing industry is highly knowledge-based. Research is a prerequisite for ensuring sound and sustainable resource management, to consolidate and further develop the existing industry and, last but not least, research will play a key role in establishing the basis for new value creation and new business activities based on marine resources in a broad sense. Within the marine R & D effort, emphasis shall be placed on ensuring high basic competence, strong professional environments throughout the country and upgrading technical equipment. Norway should aim to be at the forefront of international marine research and development. I share the Committee's focus on the importance of good work sharing between professional environments and the best possible coordination of R & D efforts. In particular, I would like to underline the value of a good interaction between R & D environments and industry. This is not least a challenge in an industry with many smaller and medium-sized units. The industry must also be able to carry out research under its own direction, request research and make use of research and research results. The dissemination of R & D results shall be a central part of the overall maritime R & D effort. An overall perspective shall be used for the further development of the industry. As part of such a strategy, I want to redeploy resources within the Ministry of Fisheries and set up a separate secretariat for value creation in the Ministry. The Secretariat shall, inter alia: have the task of coordinating efforts to realise the high potential for value creation in industry, to identify areas of action and to promote a competitive framework for industry. In line with Storting’s intentions, I am now working on setting the framework for the introduction of a general R & D fee for the fisheries and aquaculture industry. I'm already in March this year aiming to make a motion for a resolution on this. The R & D fee is a fee that the industry itself has wanted, and there is very wide disintegration about it in the industry. A R & D levy will strengthen industrial research and, above all, give the industry greater influence on research priorities. I think it is most appropriate to come back to the details of the proposal for a R & D fee in connection with the said odelsting proposal. However, in accordance with the Committee's opinion, I propose that the main responsibility for the management of R & D funds be assigned to the industry itself. The main device of the scheme will be nutrient research and joint R & D activities that benefit all or part of the industry. Growth in the fisheries and aquaculture sector has significant societal impacts. The majority of production must necessarily take place in the districts. A good fisheries policy is therefore also good rural policy. A good research policy in the marine sector is also good district policy. The growth of the fishing industry also promotes a broad and strong national supplier industry and provides the basis for further development of such related activities. By investing in those areas where we have the natural advantages – as in the fisheries and aquaculture industry – we provide a good basis for securing the welfare state in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e978	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e981	First, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the Minister for Fisheries is taking part in the debate on the Research Communication. I hope that is an emphasis on the fact that the Government also believes that the marine sector is in a special position in relation to growth potential in the future, and that it is important to get a lot of work done here. We know that there is an industry that is and is becoming more and more research-based, and then it's important that we make a commitment to marine research. I believe that I have picked up through the media that the Council of State has given signals that research efforts are going to increase, both the public-funded and the business community. Does this mean that the Government has sympathy for what is stated in the Workers' Party's comments on the R & D fee, namely that we want to match the revenue from it with an equal amount of public funding to give an extra incentive to raise research efforts in the industry? Whether or not the Council of State agrees, do I wonder if he has any other means to get out more research efforts from the fisheries and aquaculture industry? We all know that it consists largely of small businesses, and it is difficult to get each one to contribute particularly heavily. When it comes to marine research as a whole, I would like to ask: can you interpret it from the input of the Council of State so that he will reject the possibility of building up new heavy environments within his specific disciplines? Is it possible to interpret him there that he will build on the environments that are the heaviest today, and reject the fact that he can work for new ones? Then I would like to stress that in the case of the R & D fee, it is to be disposed of by the industry. The setting does not say that the main part should be disposed of - it says that the funds should be disposed of by the industry. I ask the Council of State to confirm this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e992	With regard to the question from the representative Norvoll, I would like to confirm that the Government is very concerned about investing in and working with research in the marine sector, given that the marine sector has a significant value creation potential – perhaps the highest value creation potential in the years to come. And it is a clear objective that public research efforts should be increased in this context. With regard to the R & D fee, I will only get in place immediately, if it could be perceived as unclear that the industry itself is going to dispose of and manage the R & D fee. As far as other instruments are concerned, I think we need to be so honest with ourselves that we realize that with such a large undergrowth of small and medium-sized enterprises there will be a need for significant public efforts. However, it is important to establish that the industry itself has asked for this R & D levy, and it is important that it is properly set on its own to contribute to an industrial research and development activity in fisheries. With regard to the new environment versus the established institutions, I will not deny that it may be possible to develop the research and development environment within new institutions, but I think we shall have as our starting point that with the great effort that we are now going into in marine research, we are essentially going to use the established research institutions we have both in Bergen, Trondheim and Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1003	I share the pleasure of the representative Norvolls that the Minister for Fisheries is active in this area today, and it is true, as many have said, that the marine industries have a great potential. The research and development fee to be applied to fisheries and aquaculture is positive, and the Committee has clearly stated that it should be used for research and development work directly linked to the industry, and I assume that it will be followed up. But it is important that this fee does not become a sleep cushion. The industry must actively participate not only by paying but also by actively cooperating with the research community to ensure that these products, or research results, can be commercialised and further valued. And if we're going to be able to exploit the potential of marine nutrition and marine research, research needs to be put into a context, because research alone is not enough. Research must be followed up with innovation and exploitation of research. It was also the minister inside, but he did not say anything about how he would proceed with this. Another point, which is completely decisive, and where the growth potential is high in marine nutrition, is the further processing of what we already have, plus some new species. And then we can't help but realize that a large part of this has to be exported, and we know that today there are trade barriers internationally that mean that whatever we can develop, we don't get to do this in a good enough way. I would like to ask the Council of State how the industry will participate in the research in order to exploit the results, and whether the Council of State will participate, among others. through the WTO, so that the fishing industry can have better conditions to exploit commercially the research results we hope to achieve and export the products.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1012	I understand that the representative, Mr Løvik, and also the representative, Mr Norvoll, are pleased that the Minister for Fisheries is taking part in the debate. I would like to say: it would just be missing – with the potential we have in the marine sector. In my four weeks as a State Council, I have put great emphasis on focusing on the value creation potential, the research effort, in the years to come. So the R & D fee. It's not supposed to be a sleeping cushion. We are committed to working together between the industry, the administration and the ministry to tap into the value creation potential that lies there, and the R & D fee is to ensure that we are managed by the industry itself. So to the growth potential and market access, which is the final question. I would like to stress: I think one of the key prerequisites for making use of the value creation potential in the marine sector is that we ensure market access, that we are properly committed to developing it. I can mention that as early as the next week, on a trip in Japan, I will address this issue with my Japanese colleague, the Minister for Fisheries and Agriculture. That's what we're really putting on. We have also just decided to involve a Fisheries Council in the WTO delegation in Geneva. So we're actively focusing on improving market access. I would like to stress that ensuring market access for the fishing industry is perhaps one of the best ways to pursue active and good rural policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1021	I am pleased that the Minister for Fisheries is much clearer in his views and much more concrete than his arms sponsors are in the Education Committee. We just get to say that is happy, and then we get to think that it's the council that gets the last word in some of the things we've discussed. As far as the R & D fee is concerned, I was also concerned in my first question with the attitude of the Workers' Party, and that is that when we introduce such a fee, which the industry is well satisfied with, and which many might think should be larger in order to get more money, we believe that it is natural for the public to enter and match this amount, i.e. that we are entering with similar appropriations going for the same purposes, as a tool for increasing research efforts in this industry and directly linked up to the companies in the fisheries and marine industry. I just want to repeat the question: does the Council of State think it's a good idea, or does he think it's a completely hopeless idea? He should in any case know that if he either now or at a later time thinks it's a good idea that we should contribute extra from the public side to get an extra amount of research in this industry, he'll be able to get support from the Storting for it. I hope there is something that the Council of State will take with him when he will present the matter of the concreteisation of the R & D fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1030	If I'm more precise than my friends in the committee in Stortinget, it's hard for me to say about, but the point is that when you sit as a fisheries minister, you have to go down into the concrete tools, and that's what we're trying to do when we're working on R & D fees, and with marine research right now. Regarding the issue of the Workers' Party's comments on the R & D fee and matching 1:1 between private financing and government funding, I would like to say that the government's objective is to make a significant general increase in research, and then, necessarily, the focus on marine R & D will be a major effort. So I really don't see the need for this clarification, because the growth will come. The clear objective of the Government is that marine research should be a major effort, and then there will be funds there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1037	I am very pleased with the answer given by the Council of State in my first line when it came to the value of market access for marine product, which is a very important driving force in district development. We who come from the coast know this, and we are very pleased that the minister is now so ready in this area. But let it also be said that when we talk about this in the context of the research message, it is because demanding, new and exciting markets will also be one of the strongest driving forces for research efforts. So there are many of the ideas for new research and new developments in the market. So far, I'm very happy with what the council said. When the Council of State mentions this with market access as very decisive, I want to ask: how important is it? We are all certain that it is very important, but can it be thought – in an international society with tough competition rules and, in part, barriers to trade – that market access for fish, which is important both for research and regional development, is so important that perhaps we can think of giving a little extra market access in Norway to other countries when it comes to other industries, without having to specify them more closely?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1044	Market access is important for district development, and I think it is exciting that when the market and research meet, it may have the greatest potential for development, as underlined here. So over to the question that goes on agriculture versus the fisheries. I think it's going to be on the side of the debate we have today, but I think it's going to have two thoughts in my head, and that's what the government has. We are working to improve access to the fish market, and we are working to meet the goals that the nation has for agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1052	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1055	I'm glad it's being added to increased nutrition research, because we're in a situation where we have an enormous need to create new jobs. According to researchers, there are actually 800,000 new jobs in the first 20 years. They also claim that maybe 80 pst. the current business environment will be closed down. This illustrates the enormous need for conversion facing Norwegian business. In such a situation, it is necessary to stimulate the industries in which there is a potential for growth. The marine sector is clearly the area that will probably be the most involved, otherwise it is the sectors in which we can call knowledge- and technology-based industry, including ICT. And it must be right to increase the research on knowledge-based business development, because when we keep the Norwegian business structure up against knowledge-based business development, we actually get a relatively gloomy image. Following an OECD report presented last October, Norway has a lower research effort than almost all OECD countries, and Norway has a lower share of technology-based exports. For example, in Norway we are located in this area at the top of 10 p.m., while Denmark is on the double, Finland on the triple, Sweden on the quadruple, and so one could hold on – until one came to Japan and the United States. Of course, we get this image because Norway has a natural resource-based economy, with large oil and gas resources. But it doesn't make the situation any better. Because when oil revenue flattens out and the number of pensioners path, we simply get a formidable need for value creation because of a wealth gap in society. If we're going to be able to keep up today's prosperity level, we need to stimulate the development of these knowledge-based and technology-based industries, because here, as I said, it's a potential. In this situation, we need a comprehensive policy to stimulate increased nutrition research. We also need to increase computer literacy and insight into the context between knowledge, innovation and business growth. Here research can also help us. For this paradigm shift, as we often call it, not only creates whole new industries and businesses, but it also requires a completely different and new competence – a competence like that per. in fact, today is an international competition for. All countries are now competing to facilitate the best people and the most forward-looking business start-ups. Knowledge companies establish themselves largely where they find the best skills. But it is also that research and knowledge will be of little value if we do not now manage to convert knowledge into business and industry. This may be the real challenge in Norway. In other words, we must have a much greater interaction between industry, education and research. And in this way, I believe that the regional development environment that you are establishing around the country, either called the research park, the business park or whatever it is, is a real tool. In this way, a national IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu is also an entirely correct and necessary tool to enhance this interaction in the future. Finally, I would like to say that it will be a task for the state – we are relatively rich – to convert a part of our wealth, oil wealth or other income, into a research and education, which in the next round can increase industrial growth and private value creation without at the same time increasing private consumption and inflation. Here we have a formidable problem in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1068	I am in line with my good government colleagues and share the pleasure of being able to see that there is broad consensus in the committee on the submitted research communication. It's really an ambitious goal the government has laid down. Public investment in research will be increased by several billion dollars over the next five years, and efforts will be made to ensure that growth in R & D activity is at least as high as the increase in the State budget can contribute. I think this is absolutely necessary. Norway is a country rich in natural resources in which we have traditionally lived well. However, we have become dependent on our commodity-based business. Our oil and gas activity is likely to be halved towards 2020, which is dramatic because it will make up a quarter of the value added in today's industry. The need to develop an innovative business is evident if we are to secure value creation and Velferds-Norway, and it must be a much more knowledge-intensive business than today. Our starting point is good: the level of education in Norway is already high, and it is still growing. At the same time, we have huge financial resources to further develop this knowledge base. Everything is at the heart of knowledge-based innovation in Norway, but we have only triggered a fraction of the potential. If we are to succeed, we need to ensure that highly qualified people are recruited to the business community, that the institutes can offer attractive competence for job research, and that research recruitment at universities and colleges is strengthened. I share the view of the majority of the committee that there is a particular need for better recruitment to the real- and technology disciplines and to medical subjects. The challenges of industrial research policy are both to increase R & D activities in industry and in industry. Significantly more enterprises need to work systematically with research and development and it must be attractive for both Norwegian and foreign enterprises to invest in bold and long-term R & D efforts in Norway. The Hervik Committee is now in the final phase of its work to assess the scale and arrangements of instruments that could lead to increased R & D investment in business. The Committee underlines the value creation potential of traditional industries. I share this perception. Supporting technology development and innovation in these sectors is an important challenge for the instrument. However, I am convinced that new jobs will be created primarily in new innovative and growth-intensive industries, often dominated by small and medium-sized enterprises. In information and communication technologies and biotechnology, structural and technological changes are so far-reaching that ‘explosive’ business areas are created. A good example is the emergence of the search engine company FAST, which now has a market value of approximately NOK 30 billion. The technology behind FAST has been developed in Norway over many years of research in the NTNU environment. Such opportunities need to be exploited by Norway to an entirely different extent than we have now. On the part of the state, we need to build strategic knowledge in critical areas, and then contribute to user-driven projects with a high risk profile. Developing firms have a particular need for risk-absorbing public instruments. The Workers' Party has asked the Government in its comments to assess whether SND and Seed Funds can be set up to contribute capital to research-based business start-ups, especially in the start-up phase. Let me draw my attention to the fact that that is exactly what is the purpose of these instruments. The government has purposefully developed mechanisms that put knowledge and competence into circulation. Among other things, we have a separate scheme of project development grants, which is also to be implemented in the crucial phase of the development of ideas in the lives of research-based enterprises. I have also noticed that the Committee shares the Government's emphasis that we need to focus more on the commercialisation of results from the research communities. This is really central. Breaking down the historically waterproof shots between business and academia and building good innovation and knowledge environments are in many ways the modern industrial journey in Norway. We also need to develop incentives that give universities greater economic self-interest in such processes. The Bernt Committee's attitude premises for this work. The Committee proposes that the Government of the Revised National Budget present a more concrete proposal for a phasing-out plan for research efforts and that the Stortinge should also consider concrete follow-up to the Hervik Committee's recommendation. I am pleased with the impatience of Stortingen and, like my colleague Lilletun, I can promise that we will do our best to get things done in a good and quick way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1100	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1103	I have three questions for the Council of State that go a little further than what he was about in the post. It is often far from ideal for profitable enterprises – especially those research-based ideas. There is a problem about having enough resources to develop ideas and get long-term owners who can and will take the risk of investing in such ideas. Does the Council of State think that the instrument is good enough and the availability of capital is good enough to ensure that the most possible good ideas are developed – for employment, work and well-being? In case no, what initiative will he take to improve on this? In the Enterprise Message, the Government underlines enterprise neutrality. The exemption is then the reindeer's tax. In the research message, the government proposes to focus on four areas, which are the opposite of business neutrality. And in my eyes, this, as I said, is a contradiction. Does it mean that Sponheim has changed our vision and that we have to bet where we are or can bet, that is a good promise? I would like to have a comment on that. We are now talking about the R & D levy in the fisheries sector. This is also recognised for the forest sector, including: Because these industries are made up of many small actors, but it's indebted, as the Council of State said, very many other industries and parts of industries as well. So there are a lot of small and medium-sized enterprises that may not have such large development departments and that often have hardly any larger offices than what they get in their backyards. Can the Council of State think of other industries where one can use the idea of a research and development fee, so that even these companies can participate, at least with money for research and development work?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1116	Firstly, when it comes to funding the good ideas and getting to the research-based business community, getting at the births that we need from the many new enterprises based on the results of research, even more capital is needed than today to take risks at an early stage. It is my clear view that the public must have a central role in financing such projects at an early stage, because the risk is so great that the market does not work. Then there is a market failure, and then it has a public job to do. This government has contributed here to strengthening important instruments. We have significantly increased the regional seed funds. We have launched a completely new project, a project development grant, which has recently also been approved by ESA, of 100 million. kr., which is to be used over a period of time to stimulate research results in our research environments, and which may also help to break down some of the psychological barrier between being a researcher and going out and creating a store of research results. But more is needed here, and I think we all need to think again about how we might be able to use the state's capital, move some of the state's capital from safe, ordinary positions to take the important societal task of taking risks. We definitely don't have industry neutrality. We have a business policy in Norway that has traditionally been oriented towards solving concrete tasks in different industries. The business message suggested that we need to be more cautious about nutrition neutrality. I have never believed in any continuous business neutrality. It'll be an impossibility. But to a lesser extent you have to try to be a decision-maker and have opinions about who will succeed, and who will not succeed, because they often know the best ones who have the shoes on. I assume that when, among other things, Whereas the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has given a decisive emphasis to involving agricultural products in the SND system; whereas, in order to see the potential of rural development, it is somewhat more independent of specific industries and projects; When it comes to the last question, the Hervik committee comes up with its setting in a few weeks. We will then be able to discuss contributions from the industry itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1125	We have a formidable task if we're to achieve the big goals of increasing research, and it's especially for enterprises. 50 pst. the OECD countries today have fiscal incentives, and there is no lack of proposals from the Right on such measures over the years, including in particular: when over-priced depreciation is involved. Now, the Hervik committee, as the Council of State just said, will be held on 1 March, and I expect, after what has been said today, that we will have to decide on it in ours, and that concrete proposals will come into the 2001 state budget. I guess that's what the government's order is. Another issue that is not mentioned both in the message and in the settings, but which begins to force itself forward, is what is now happening with the strong internationalization of the business community. What I know best is the maritime industries, which are important both in the state council's home state and in my home state. Several of these companies have now become part of international groups. These companies currently have strong research and development departments in Norway, but it is quite clear that as part of an international group, research and development departments will be located where the framework conditions and the professional environment are best. This could be both a threat and a possibility for Norwegian companies and for Norwegian research. But I feel that this problem that is starting to get needed is worth a little more attention. Because it is clear that it is bad if the few large research departments we have, or some of them at least, were to disappear abroad because of bad framework conditions. It could also mean that other parts of the operations disappear. I would like to have the Council's comment. What concrete steps can we take to avoid this?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1134	For the first issue: The bigger picture and society in general will be able to participate fully in the debate when the Hervik Committee's vote comes. It is notified on 1 March, and the last indicates that it will be handed over a few days after that. There will then be little time, but it should be possible by throwing itself around quickly and by continuity in government work to get at least important views about this up to the revised national budget. There are many of us who have been concerned with these thoughts in the past. I believe that in my time here in the Chamber, from 1993, there has been a broad minority consensus on overprice depreciation. I believe that the Right, Left, Christian People's Party and SV were united on such a minority proposal for overprice depreciation in the previous period. Later we know that there have been different views on how tax incentives must be, and we expect that this sample will provide us with a broad and sensible professional review of the best way to do this. But I think it is necessary, even though it is already tax-effective for companies to spend money on research, that we need to talk even more clearly to the companies about this through tax incentives, to ensure that they are doing their own interest in a good way. Because there is a hard return on investing in research, both for the company, but also for society too. That is why I think we should be impatient about addressing this work, including at political level. With regard to the importance of national ownership and the fact that, through the owners who may be there, we ensure that central headquarters functions, research departments, centres of excellence functions and what they may be become in the country, I fully share the views expressed by the representative here. It's important to focus on. It is primarily through one tool that we can ensure that this activity remains in Norway: that we have good general framework conditions and that we have the heads needed. It's going to be in the country as long as we can offer the heads and the workforce. It has to be in focus first and foremost.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1143	We are looking forward to the Minister of Industry being thrown around after the Hervik Committee has put forward its position. It is also good that the Minister of Industry takes part in this debate. Hopefully, it bears witness to a stronger commitment from the Minister of Industry to also contribute to increased investment in research. So far, the Minister of Industry has made sure that this research is cut, but we're going to have to make a change in it. With regard to commercialisation, from many research environments we have been around and visited and met, there has been a strong need for equity, especially outside the large centres where the head offices of enterprises are located. The Minister of Industry said in his speech that the meaning of the Seed Fund and the START Fund is to help research-based business start-ups. But the experience so far, after what we've heard, is that the large START fund over two years has only given support to 13 companies, the Seed Fund, which is a little smaller, has supported 16 companies, while, for example, it has supported 16 companies. Little Leiv Eiriksson Nyfotek in Trondheim with a capital of only 10 million. kr has helped to initiate 20 business start-ups. The reason for this is, among other things, that there is little room for taking risks. Experience so far is that they help few businesses, and they often help the large, established enterprises after the most vulnerable phase. But after hearing the statement to the Minister for Research, he seems to agree quite well with what we have put in on commercialisation. Therefore, my question is: why could not the government parties join in on these remarks or at least try to agree with us on that before this debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1152	There is such a good atmosphere in the main hall today, and there is such a broad consensus on major and important national issues that should be raised and beyond lot markings. I think that's important, because we're facing a national uprising in securing the future Velferds-Norway, and then it's necessary that we manage to raise this to that level. The representative of Konglevoll invites the rhetorical inside of me to get hold of this, but I will not do that first of all now. I have been in the fight to get through seed funds and many of these schemes, and I know who has been skeptical and a bit opposed to these schemes over time. I rather think it is important that we come to a recognition from different points of view and agree that, from today on, a broader – and cross-political – thank you for lifting research efforts and efforts to bring about dawning business life around the research communities in a new way. Over these years, the government has promoted its proposals in this area – new grant schemes aimed at our academic environments, and strengthening seed funds – thus contributing to commercialisation. I think it's hard to measure in such an early phase. Many of these regional seed funds have only been established and come up and functioned at the end of last year, and starting to measure them now according to the number of enterprises that have been contacted is a little too early. This is probably a bit of a long-term effort, and it's a demanding and difficult task to pick out the good ideas and bet on them. Here we need the many flowers blooming. So putting one environment in Trondheim up against another environment nearby, that's not the big point. We need to have competition between these environments, and they need to be able to cooperate in order to achieve the best possible results. We must have a variety of instruments that contribute to what I think we all agree on, and as the broad consensus in the debate has shown that we are now doing a national task. Although all costs are from a financial point of view, some costs contribute to the acquisition of income. We have to remember that. This is not all expenditure that is decided upon in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1161	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1165	It is a very important message that is up to debate today. I find reason to remind you that there is research effort that has laid the foundation for the success of salmon farming. Now other species come into breeding. It's also quite certain that there's research here that will give the results. I am pleased that marine research has been given such a central role in the committee debate and in the debate that has been taking place here today. I would like to remind you that in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 51 for 1997-98, perspectives on the development of the Norwegian fishing industry, the Storting has joined some leadership in marine research. In that context, I want to focus on the objectives mentioned there, namely: Norway must be the world's leading fishing nations to be at the forefront of the development of a resilient resource manager in relation to capture technologies when it comes to aquaculture and industrial development; It's not petty. But now it's time for Norway to be one of the really big fishing nations, and we have to make it clear that the professional community we have in the area really has a standard that matches at least the researchers they're going to meet in different international contexts. The environments we've devoted to marine research everything today, need all the strength. However, we cannot ignore the fact that Norway is a small country, and that we are not likely to distribute research resources to too many environments. Most research environments today have too little resources compared to the ones they need to solve. Some people are worried if we're going to go too fast, and if that means we don't get the quality of the money, literally. I don't think there's any reason to worry about that, and in case we can turn around a little bit and do what the EU does. They invite Norwegian researchers to research problem areas that they have. Maybe we can turn the tiles around and invite internationally prominent researchers to come and help us with our challenges. It will be a good idea, which is also old before research. There is reason to be alarmed when the marine biology students at the University of Bergen – who only tend to be examples – do not get involved in necessary field assignments. There is also reason to recall that at the last budgetary procedure here in Stortinget there are 2 million missing. kr to the necessary equipment at the Veterinärhagskulen for the test of the bladder boiler, and research on the development of new test methods. So in the meantime, a nutritious head sticks in the wall. They could have produced results, but because the effort is not high enough on the research page, they have problems. I would also like to mention that there are very major environmental research challenges in the fisheries sector. Environmental impacts and measures are linked to the farming industry, and of course there is a need to limit conflicts of interest in the use of coastal zones. It is important that we look closely at research related to equipment and research related to product development in the fisheries sector. When it comes to vessel design, it is a problem that the boats we have today have extremely high energy consumption, which often has adverse environmental consequences. All life comes from the sea, and there's every reason to believe that the sea holds values that we don't even know about today. There's a hurry to get started. It's just a shame that other nations are going to get us into the bargain and exploit the potential that we might have just outside our beach zone. I was concerned that product development that can be involved and meet the need for value creation that we have must be well advanced in priority tariffs when it comes to what we are going to research. It is easy for us to trigger the potential that lies in the fisheries sector in the future and we must begin now. There is no doubt that we are going to have to change the perceptions we have today of the fishing industry, since research shows us a new way to go. If we want to trigger the potential of 230 billion from a 30-year perspective, we have to start now. Finally, I would like to say that when it comes to research and development fees in the fisheries sector, it should come at an ambitious level from the start and not too low.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1202	With the setting today, Stortinget has both recognised and taken inward the importance of research by also demonstrating its willingness to commit. And that means that the first test comes into the revised national budget. We want to ensure strong and robust professional environments that can compete internationally, and that also work across ensuring alliances and developing interdisciplinary skills, and that no longer sit on their own barrels, but resolve rigidity that we know is found in all heavy, established systems. We will motivate our institutions and our business life to innovation and economic development through closer interaction, but then the research results must also be able to be made known in an outlying activity – initially from our universities. However, a large part of our researchers have gradually become quite up to date, and many of them will actually go off for the age limit in a few years. Recruitment is therefore a key point, with people as the most important resources in research — of course, together with up-to-date scientific equipment to improve quality. If we are able to hold on and lure to us top-quality international researchers, offering them equipment and a professional environment, we will also attract promising talents. So it's not just pay, as Fridtjof Frank Gundersen here earlier expressed it, which is decisive. Then I would also like to stress that the main task of universities is to conduct long-term, basic research, and research closely linked to education. It will also trigger a research that would not otherwise have been carried out – that is, research as a value in itself. It is important that there is an increased understanding of the importance of research in this house, and that binding financing plans of significant size, recruitment, basic research within universities and colleges, increased research in industry and increased research fund as the State sells its shares. The promise today made by the Storting is in recognition of what we shall live on when the oil age ebbs out. And there is a great deal of excitement about the four main areas in which previous speakers have focused. Several have been involved in marine research, and I would like to mention here that the Workers' Party has a note that the so-called centres of excellence are not necessarily just to focus on the established environments. Within e.g. The whole marine field, where we have the center of both Bergen, Trondheim, Tromsø and Bodø, may well be that many of these can evolve as a cluster, which together can constitute just such a rise that can claim itself internationally. But it would be sad if we were to add that it was just where there were environments in advance, that one should have the opportunity to extend further. We've seen that where there are clusters of research and industry, one will also be able to develop an excellent professional environment more easily. The second issue is disagreement on the part of the Workers' Party, and we find it sad that we have not got the government parties with us, is the research and development fee that is now imposed on the fisheries – the fisheries that have no tradition of research. Once they have accepted that charge, it will be an important incentive and a handshake that society will also enter with a corresponding sum. Unfortunately, no agreement has been reached on this, and it is sad to say that the government parties do not agree on this when they agree at the same time that it is the marine side on which it is now to be focused. We've been saying that for a long time, but at the same time they've had a reduction in their areas in recent years. Making sure Norway is going up to an average OECD level in five years is no high ambition when we see that most countries around us just go by, even though we are talking about a lot of money. But we must ensure and renew the competence of our country. Therefore, it is necessary, practical business and welfare policy The Storting is discussing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1226	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1229	The most important thing in this debate is that research is not luxury but a prerequisite for quality in an increasingly complex society. Research is valuable. It can often, but not always generate economic values, but of course it is not economic gain that is the aim and purpose of research. That's why I was provoked when it's claimed at an NHO seminar that patenting is a prerequisite for it to be interesting to research. I want to claim that it's the research that makes it interesting to research. Of course, research must also have room for people other than the cremator cells. The research report warns of the need, but nevertheless a joyful increase in research efforts in Norway. I am also pleased that medical, health-care research is going to be one of the areas of activity. This is absolutely necessary for the quality of our health care system. But Norwegian medical research is facing major challenges today. The relative proportion of doctoral degrees in the 1990s is significantly lower in Norway than in Denmark, Finland and Sweden. A total of 70 psts were taken. more doctoral degrees in medicine in Denmark, about twice as many in Finland and over four times as many in Sweden as in Norway. This needs to be improved. It is also a challenge that we are a small country with small professional environments that are highly person-dependent and therefore vulnerable. It is therefore important when the majority of the Social Committee stressed that this must be followed up by actions at the other medical faculties, in particular by increasing the number of doctoral candidates, scholarships and post-doctoral scholarships in order to ensure recruitment. For medical research, it is particularly important to recruit doctors to ensure that medical research is also patient-oriented. Another challenge is the age profile. Very many scientific peak positions are held by men at their best age, and therefore a high take-off is to be expected in the period up to 2010. This highlights the need for positive incentives to recruit doctors for research positions. The way I see it, the pay conditions here are, in part, a crucial obstacle. A doctor who is genuinely interested in research and who has good working conditions can slowly endure a few years with relatively low incomes. Interesting and exciting work can be a good compensation for the researcher. The researcher’s family may not feel the same way. If research becomes a basis for divorce, we have a bad research policy and a bad family policy. I am pleased that the Government and the Committee underline the importance of international cooperation. I agree that research cooperation under the EEA Agreement will certainly become more and more extensive. But the world is larger than the EEA, and among other things. in the field of medical research, for example: The United States and third world countries are more interesting partners. Especially in relation to developing countries, we have many opportunities, challenges and exciting tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1242	Research shall help to show the way for a more sustainable society and for better quality of life. But research also raises new dilemmas, often of an ethical nature. I am pleased that the Government has taken this dimension seriously through its own chapter in the Communication, and this priority shows that we have a Christian Democrat as Research Minister. In the Christian People's Party, it is important to have a public research ethical debate, and that the scientific community holds human dignity high. The scientific community must challenge adopted truths, but must also show respect for recognised norms and values in society. Today we have a good system of research ethics debate and monitoring, and these must have good working conditions. I would particularly like to stress that the regional research ethics committees for medicine need to have good working conditions, as one in this field often comes up in ethical balances. We need a living public debate within this field. Today's debate has been marked by a skin debate on the regionalisation of research efforts. I agree very much with the contribution of the representative, Mr Konglevoll, earlier in the debate, but I cannot share her conclusion that the Christian People's Party does not want to bet on competence and education in district policy. We're saying the exact opposite of the setting. We assume that the regional needs will be met in the planned reinforcement. It is important to disseminate research efforts across the country. The care of the Christian People's Party for North Norway is also well documented. Then the representative had a post in which he pointed out quite correctly that the money was not granted until the decision was taken. But we are now dealing with a big message, and here is an expression of political attitudes and commitments. After this debate, it is very unclear what the Progress Party wants and what they want to commit to politically. We must be able to expect that from a responsible party. All in all, the debate confirms the majority's desire to invest in research, and we in the Christian People's Party are pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1253	The last part of the post of Synnove Konglevoll cannot stand undisputed. She referred to Minister of Local and Regional Affairs Odd Roger Enoksen's commitment to building skills in the districts and said it this way: For the moment, we have to note that Odd Roger Enoksen does not have the centre parties with him in the Stortinget. Where'd the representative Konglevoll come from? Is that because we did not support the Workers' Party's special remark on North Norway? It doesn't just get weird, it just gets hurt. That's probably what's behind it. I would like to take part in the comment if we had decided that we would take part of the country for part of the country, but then it would probably have become a lot more extensive. Let me do some examples. Buskerud is the county with the lowest number of places of study compared to the population. Oppland and Hedmark, together with Finnmark, have the lowest study propensity in the country, and Oppland and Hedmark do not have a higher degree study at all. The inland project ‘Morgenland’, to which the Government has contributed, shall be a pulley for the development of competence in that region. These are the thoughts I have to bring with me when I consider being in such special comments as the Workers' Party has in the setting. I therefore note that the Labour Party does not take this into account. It may be noticed by party traps in the interior. I have a letter from the county council, from the planning and nutrition department, where a party trap of mine, County Council Alf Ivar Samuelsen, is one of the signatories. I'll quote from that a little bit: ‘In the context of Storting’s treatment of the Research Communication, we would like to stress that it provides a good basis for strengthening knowledge development in business and that for Northern Ireland, the priority of marine R & D is of particular importance.’ This is an excellent example of how regions, counties, report their qualities. I think that's fine. But making a special remark based on it could not be suitable for us, but it is probably the way it is for the Workers' Party, who have had their consultations around. I see that the North Norway representatives Norvoll and Konglevoll have flagged this matter in the media, and it's okay that they get some political points on this. But from the centre party, we're busy thinking district policy across the country. I have said that several times before today, and there should be no doubt that that is what we mean and want. I can assure you that the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs has full support in this. It was just supposed to be missing. His proposal on digital broadband networks is a good example of measures to ensure that people across the country have access to knowledge and sources of competence wherever they live. It can also strengthen research environments in the future in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1271	The Minister for Research began his speech in this debate by presenting himself as a happy boy on the occasion of the day. It has been my impression that the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Fisheries have also been quite happy about what is in the position. I have recorded that in the course of the debate the Minister of Finance has also found himself, and he is wearing a dark dress today. [[Laughter]] I hope that does not mean that he does not share the joy of his colleagues over the fact that the Greatness is about to adopt in terms of the future of research in this country. From joke to serious. The joy of this debate is that it shows that with regard to all the broad lines of research policy, there is agreement with the exception of one party, the Progress Party, which has literally come out of reality. It was almost pathetic to listen to Mr. Hagen's intervention in this debate, where he even felt that he did not know the Stortinge's Rules of Procedure, which he would otherwise like to know fairly well, and accused the majority of not promoting concrete proposals for allocations in the handling of a paper. The truth is that both the comments of the Progress Party in the positioning and the introduction of Carl I. Hagen in the Chamber today show that the Progress Party has no research policy and no education policy either. It has been said by several teams in this debate that it is an objective to have two thoughts in your head at once. It could be putting the list up high. But one thought should be considered in the mind about the future of Norway — and that is actually Norway’s future we are discussing when we discuss the investment in research and education. The joy of the research report and the examination of the research report here in Stortinget today is that the Stortinget has placed a very concrete order already for the revised national budget, i.e. in the current six months. This means that the Stortinget has also declared its readiness to draw the necessary practical consequences of its view on the need for an offensive in research in Norway. I still think there's a certain historical suspense of that. I have to say that I am delighted with the debate that Stortinget will have when we get the concrete plan of escalation back from the Government in the proposal for a revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1282	The quality and quantity of research depends on many factors. Economics and organisation are central, and this is also the focus of both the message and the committee setting. The notification was a significant boost for Norwegian research. The committee settings have reinforced this. This implies that there may be reason to recall what Inge Wohnung said that it is useful for Norwegian research to have the Workers' Party in opposition. The working party contributes more to increasing research outside government than in government. It is important to invest in increased recruitment for research, and it is also central to the setting. It is important to develop human capital. It is also important that young potential researchers really choose a research education and career. In this context, it is also important to stimulate the joy of researching those already employed in research. This is itself an important factor, also in attracting new, competent researchers. I could now have been easily gained and stressed that the level of pay compared to other occupational groups is important, and made non-obligatory positive statements about higher wages. I won't, even if pay is substantial. Probably as important, and something that the Council of State can do about, is the working conditions of researchers. The joy of research depends on a number of factors. Good equipment, libraries and other ancillary services are important factors. Here's good money help. But it's also important that one shows trust in the individual researcher, and gives them room to develop creativity in their own work. There is no doubt that developments over time have moved towards increased control and bureaucracy at universities. Among other things, many researchers have to spend a lot of time designing projects to seek funding. This has to be changed. What is in the position of increasing basic appropriations for institutions may be an important contribution in this context, but the project to the Government on ‘Simplify Norway’ must also benefit research institutions and individual researchers. Home offices are becoming commonplace in many businesses. In that case, it cannot be right to place a significant emphasis on the presence of researchers. It is important to build on the confidence of the individual researcher. In the program on the left, researchers need to have time to do research, not manage it. This is a good wording that must also be realised.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1297	It is very good that a real boost is now being given to research, and that such emphasis is being placed on nutrition research. That's what we're going to live on in the future, that's what more people have been up to. The research we are doing today will provide jobs in Norway and save the districts and welfare state, and in the long term also cover lost revenues from the oil and gas business. In this perspective, I am concerned that we also facilitate increased value creation in Norway, and that we do not sell too many important interests on the production side. I think we need to see research and development, production, processing and distribution in the context, and I'm afraid of the consequences if too much of Norwegian farming and other marine production is sold abroad. Norway has a natural advantage for breeding, and foreign owners will, of course, take advantage of this. But what will happen over time when we are to reap from today's efforts in research and development? There is no simple debate, there are large Norwegian interests abroad too, but there is a very important debate about whether we will reap what we sow in relation to what we do on the owner's side. Today the deadline goes out to bid for the new Hydro Seafood, and the Dutch Nutreco is probably the most topical because, according to – I think it was – the Dayrevy yesterday, they will give the highest bid. Does the government have any opinion about that? And now I see the Minister of Finance is here, so maybe we'll get an answer as well. Is there any strategy to ensure some production on Norwegian hands, in Norway, or is it such that we are now spending a great deal of time on marine research that other countries want to take advantage of in the future? I give, as I said, a wholehearted support to this venture, but big business and government must also have some meaning and direction in how to ensure the highest possible value creation at home in our own fields of activity. This applies not only to farming, but also to the enormous opportunities we have for the production of new products and services that come as a result of R & D efforts. Does the Government have any strategy on the ownership side, a strategy to ensure the use of its interests and its resources? So there's so much structural change going on very quickly, businesses are switching owners across borders very quickly. I believe that these thoughts are also part of the debate today, and we look forward to having the Government's view on them.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1304	The answer to what Mr Husøy asked for is to give a good framework to business, to provide taxes and taxes that are more similar to the right's proposals than those adopted in the Stortinget. It's the most important single factor. So until what I asked for the word for. Most of it has been said, and most of it has been said in a very good way when it relates to the research message. But here are some comments from the Workers' Party that we can't let stand out completely. In particular, representatives Norvoll and Konglevoll have tried to create the impression that the majority, and especially the Right, will not be investing in research in the regions. This is a strange statement. There is a large number of people in this room, and in the setting, who have said in plain text that we should bet on this. And trust that the districts are able to deliver the same quality – at least – as other parts of the country, I do not see any contradiction between what is the most important, quality and concentration of strong environment, and what they claim from the Labour Party's side is that we do not want to go along with, namely, a regional distribution. But it's a good way from saying it to go into the concrete thing the Labour Party has proposed – which has been said very strongly by the same two representatives, but which for natural reasons was not mentioned by the last representative, Husøy – that the research section in Northern Norway is going up on the national average. To start with a regional distribution and sementing we think from the Right's side is completely irresponsible. Relatively strengthening a part of the country up to an average, whichever part of the country it is, would have to lead to a relative weakening of other parts of the country, as it would be very difficult to get everyone above the average. And then it might be tempting to ask the Workers' Party: is it the environment in Trondelag, is it the environment in the West, is it the environment in the South, is it the environment in the Austland that is going to falter in order to achieve what the Workers' Party is now saying, that one of the parts of the countries is going up on average? I also found this to be an insight into how research and development is carried out in practice, which is relatively weak, because there are constant changes here. Sometimes projects will go to one environment, two times to another environment, and if we cement this, we can risk that very good projects will not be carried out because we've said that so and so many percent will go to each part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1312	I really thought we had finished the debate on – I was saying – districts versus central struts, on the regionalisation of the research effort or not. So we have done nothing but enter into the setting what is the Labour Party's policy, for example. that we should be able to use this with research and higher education as an instrument of regional and regional policy in order to develop across the country. And then we've pointed out that North Norway is particularly bad at that, we want to raise that part of the country because we see that there are the biggest problems with a kind of 'brain flow', that we're not able to provide exciting environments for those people who take higher education. But we've just put our policies in place. That it's going to be a problem for the Right, and that it's going to be a problem for the Center Party, and in some ways we can't help it. However, we must be allowed to express what is our policy. So the representative of Tingelstad says that the reason why the Central Party is not involved in pointing out the need for investment in North Norway is that other parts of the country are not mentioned. That's to the extent of a recording, but the natural reaction to it had to be to come to the Workers' Party and say, we agree that we have to get a certain regional distribution of this. Can we not sit down and try to agree on a policy on how to do that, how to raise the different environments and different regions in research and higher education? - But did they? No, they didn't. No, however, they sat on their hind legs and refused to participate in that discussion, claiming that it is the Workers' Party that only makes it difficult and that only has marking needs. We have done nothing but put our policies into this setting. Of course, we are aware that there are several regions that are in the knowledge shadow, and we will come back to that – we will deal with more budgets in the future here. We have tabled two concrete proposals – not with North Norway, because there is no concrete proposal – on which we stand alone. One is that we want to give universities the opportunity to build up their skills through the use of recruitment positions. I don't understand what's wrong with that. It's okay, we can stand alone on it, and we like to do it, too, but I think it's weird that you don't want to say that it's going to be possible in that way to build a community of competences in the regions. The same is true of centres of excellence. Because if it's difficult for the Central Party to promote the proposals that are our policy, we can't let go of promoting them for the sake of Marit Tingelstad's mood – it's kind of too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1323	I want to give Mr Norvoll the right in one thing: there is nothing wrong with the Labour Party's policy for a Labour Party politician, but I am pleased that he respects, apparently, that perhaps others can share the same opinion with his party. However, that is not why I have asked for the floor now. But during the representative's outstanding three-minute talks, it struck me that this personality had a quick look at what our finance minister was wearing today. You hardly need any special knowledge or position in the world to see it. But when he begins to hustle over the policies of the Progress Party, or lack of policy, in the field of research and education because Carl I. Hagen spoke about the economic conditions, the lack of commitment in the decisions that the majority advocates here today, then I feel that at best he is moving far on earth. The whole issue at the moment is a debate on organisational framework conditions, such as choice of places – with reference to the Opera and the length of time it took just because of its location – as job homes, which is a purely organisational framework measure, even as trivial as ventilation in the buildings you might have, the general working environment, etc. But what you're not talking about is the content, the relative amount of knowledge, the quality of the knowledge you want to get, and what use this might have. But we can talk a little bit about the economy -- I have 44 seconds left. A fund of DKK 10-15 billion gives an approximate return of 1 billion per year. years. There's a lot of money, but it's a trifle compared to the $8-9 billion wish. And it's going to be exciting to see where these 8 to 9 billion are being taken from, and what's going to suffer. This year a return of 90 million was granted. kr – they were not added, but instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1332	In the light of the rather extensive discussion of the regional perspective, which, in my view, is largely based on a talker passing by each other, I would like to say: what is in the message and – I understand – in the setting, which is regionally justified on the basis of a holistic approach? Yes, it's strengthening the government's spheres through the emphasis on the general knowledge. I shall keep to the idea of division of labour across the Norway network and that quality shall be the basis for the allocation of tasks on the Norway network. That we've opened so that state higher education can be awarded doctorate, is one example of that. The good research environment at the Hajskolas will have a good framework and we will develop the regional innovation environment. The Committee says that we should coordinate them more closely with the Higher Education Council and the SND. It's also a regional perspective that's holistic. The regional perspective will also be part of the thematic initiatives. This means both that research within the thematic areas can be carried out by regional environment and that research is organised in such a way as to promote regional development. Marine research is crucial for a robust fishing and aquaculture industry, which is likely to be a barrier to industry along the coast. Information and communication technologies shall be put into operation throughout the country with a view to promoting regional development. Within the field of medical and health care, telemedicine will have the strongest centre in Tromsø, i.e. in North Norway. So it's always a perspective that's also regionally oriented, but based on a holistic approach. When it comes to the centre of research, I have a prayer: I should like the Stortinget to gather that we use the Norwegian name ‘centre for research’, and not here also adopt the English ‘centres of excellence’. It's really a challenge I want to give us, and hope it can be like this. So to the question of whether we're going to have permanent recruitment options for the highlights: based on a quality assessment, it's clear that we want it there too. We've started that, and we're also going to increase it, but once again based on a health assessment, based on the overall perspective of the message. When it applies to North Norway, I would like to have a list of how we've prioritised it. I'm not going to do that, because then I'm going into the same debate, which is sectored. I will end by thanking Stortinget for a good attitude and for an exciting debate, collecting sets. I'm optimistic on the nation's behalf that we are now willing to invest more in research.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1349	There is no doubt that research is very important for the value creation of Norwegian business. The situation for us is that in a 20-year period we probably have to double the value creation of a competitive business. If we don't do that, it's likely that painful cuts in our collective well-being goods will be necessary. The international competition for our business life can best be compared to a three-pointer that goes faster and faster. In order to maintain competitiveness, research efforts need to be significantly increased. This government has seen that challenge and has launched a stepping-up plan for research. Growth in the Research Council's appropriations is not enough in itself. SND’s activity towards research parks and regional research environment should be strengthened significantly, including: by stepping up the FORNY programme. The scheme of seed funds, and its extension, are also very positive. What I want to report in particular is the potential that lies in that maritime area. In the case of fish, we have been a commodity producer and not very creative in terms of exploiting the opportunities that exist. The industry has had low self-financing through R & D, and now the industry agrees that a research fee should be introduced, which is also a follow-up to the comments made by the Stortinget in the treatment of St.meld. No 51 for 1997-98 perspectives on the development of the Norwegian fishing industry. The marine industry and the fishing industry are forecasting a bright future. There is talk of increased exports from NOK 30 billion today to perhaps NOK 250 billion within a few decades. If one is to achieve such a result, one has to look at the entire resource from the sea. Centrally here in the time to come, will be exploiting the by-products that are not currently being taken well enough care of. There has been a gradual increase in value creation for by-product, from 300 to 400 million. In the early 1990s, around DKK 1 billion now. The development of the by-product sector has to do with the proper use of resources, keeping as much of the valuable proteins taken up by the sea as possible. This is also in line with the environmental policy objectives of increasing value creation without increasing the consumption of raw materials. There are many exciting areas in this sector in terms of the use of enzymes and other fish bio-chemicals. I am pleased that maritime research will be a field of activity in the coming period, and – as I said – there are great opportunities here if we now practice our living in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1362	I would like to contribute to my honoured colleague Ursula Evje with a slight deepening of what I had in mind with my comment on Carl I. Hagen's contributions to this debate. It is true that when a party leader who is not in the relevant trade committee joins with a main feature of a debate like this, he or she is expected to have something to say. You might even expect someone to want something. I found with some wonder that it would, Mr President. Hagen didn't really, he didn't have a single word to say about his party's research policy or education policy. Now I have registered that the Progress Party is in a process in which you discuss with yourself whether the party will become a serious party or will continue as so far. So I probably interpreted Carl I. Hagen's posts as an indirect feature in that debate, because if that article were to form the scale, it would probably have long prospects for becoming a serious party. It is essential, I think, that all parties in this Chamber have a reasoned view on what research and education policy should mean for the future of Norway. What, as far as I understood, was the main objection on the part of the representative, Mr Evjes, and also earlier in Mr Hagen's speech, was that the motions for resolutions were not sufficiently concrete. Then I am surprised to note that the Progress Party itself has made three proposals in the vote, and they do not stand out precisely by being more concrete than the proposals that the majority has made. Rather, if you go closer to them, you will see that they are very general, and that they are nothing but a request to the Government for generous and comprehensive investigations. As far as I can see, this committee position is marked out in relation to the average of committee settings dealing with roll-call messages, by delivering very precise and very specific orders to the Government, and they have also been delivered with a very specific deadline, namely that the Storting wants to go further and clarify its positions through adjournment decisions already in the revised national budget, i.e. in the current six months. Much more concrete than that, the Storting may be difficult to deal with in a government message.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1373	Ursula Evje has spoken twice and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1376	That's more of an explanation. The representative Carl I. Hagen didn't have a main post, and I thought the representative's pay was aware of that. However, when it comes to the representative's knowledge of the Advance Party, I think that also pinhead heads – the colored ones – are too big to hold his knowledge there. When we ask for investigations, it's because we have a desire to investigate something, to acquire knowledge about something, and not to draw matters along.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1381	I understand that we have annoyed the representative Inge Wohnung something today. It is not unusual in itself, but it is remarkable with the representative's salary that he has the characteristic that he has problems listening to what we are saying. First of all, that's how Ursula Evje just mentioned, I haven't kept a main post, it's what Ursula Evje has done. What I found necessary to point out, and I think that is actually very important, is that the committee itself says that on two previous occasions the Storting has promised a strong escalation of appropriations for research, and one has failed to follow it up. That is why I have allowed myself to say that when the rapporteur for the case has publicly stated that the Committee's suspension must be a breakthrough and a warning of a significant escalation in the appropriations for research, it should be included in a pinch of salt. The fact is that Storting’s actions in the past have shown that the type of promises in connection with the processing of a wholesale notification is not so much worth. Of course, I am fully familiar with the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament, and I have only allowed myself to point out that the time of boasting that money has been provided for a purpose is when decisions on the allocation have been taken, either in the context of the revised national budget, where changes are also made to the appropriations, or in the budgetary procedure. It's because it's searchful when people outside this hall start doing actions based on more money coming, and then the money doesn't come. I have also allowed myself to point out that when you make big promises about financial statements without saying anything about who is going to get less, the possibilities for that money coming are not so great, and that's the ratio here. As far as research and education policies are concerned, research policies are currently under discussion and not so much education policy, although of course it is affected. The Progress Party has long had a very good education policy, and on several occasions we have also had the great pleasure of saying that this has been so good that the Right has gradually copied quite a lot of it, because very much of what Right now runs on in its education policy, they have voted against it when we proposed it in the 1980s. So that Inge Wohnung criticises our education policy, is pretty amazing when his own party has found it possible to copy as much as they have done in recent years. In fact, we find it nice that the Right has copied so much, and looks forward to the opportunities to cooperate with those in the Right who want it, in order to implement that policy after the 2001 elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1390	I have been guilty of a serious mistake, namely to describe Carl I. Hagen's contributions to this debate as a main feature. It was a five-minute post, to be perfectly precise. But even in 5 minutes it is possible to give an opinion on the content of Norwegian research and education policy, and the content of the Education and Research Policy of the Progress Party. I find that even after the last article, Carl I. Hagen has not said a single word about the content – not one.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1395	Carl I. Hagen has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1398	Both the Progress Party and I have relatively large ambitions, but we are so well aware that we do not have the ambition that the representative Inge Wohnung will ever be satisfied with the content of the posts we hold from the Storting Chair. I just have to say that we have been confirmed this time as well. Whatever I say, Inge Wage will never be satisfied. We can live with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1406	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Add User-ID Succeeded [[See page 2110]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1420	From time to time, the newspaper reports on the control activities of the Storting and on the extent to which the size of its control activities focuses on the different parts of the administration. Among other things, it has been criticised that the Storting attaches too much importance to whether government and state councils comply with the information obligation, and too little emphasis on employment. When we are going to deal with a document that is so much aimed at going through and exercising the control function in relation to the performance of the duties, I would like to stress that, of course, the Storting is embarrassed by its control activities. Of course it is, and of course it should be. In the context of the last year’s committee reading, the Committee expressed very strong concern that parts of the public administration did not take the issue of accounting seriously enough. What happens in connection with this year's Document No. 1 – for 1999-2000 – is that, as far as I know, the Riksrevision for the first time finds it timely to write to the Prime Minister and draw the Prime Minister's attention to the fact that a number of the accounts of the various departments, and the accounts of the various agencies, are difficult to revise, and that errors and shortcomings should not be found in public activities. The National Audit Office’s letter to the Prime Minister only underlines how serious it is not only the Riksaudition but also the Stortinget that, year after year — in some cases — it is the same department that goes back and receives comments on the accounts. Obviously, something has to be done. If it is the case that there is a lack of competence in the various administrative parts, something must be done immediately to strengthen this competence. Of course, if this is not taken seriously enough, the various departments have to instruct their government councils to do their job and say that next year’s accounting records are going to be all right! We see that the Prime Minister has chosen to send the letter from the National Audit Office to the Ministry of Finance and asks the Ministry of Finance to take action to get out of this situation. There is reason to recall, in particular because the Minister of Finance is sitting here, that some of the strongest criticisms that the Riksrevision presents to some departments and certain administrative parts are given to departments under the Ministry of Finance. This suggests, therefore, that the Ministry of Finance does not have the necessary management tools either. When the Court of Auditors makes very strong criticisms of the tax administration offices, the Directorate of Customs and Fees, the VAT accounting, and the petroleum tax accounts, it suggests that the Ministry of Finance has a job to do in relation to its underlying agencies to remedy this. I spend so much time on this because I don't think it's satisfactory for Stortinget that it's going to be several years before this gets right, as the Ministry of Finance suggests. Something can happen, says the Ministry of Finance, some improvements can be achieved during the first half of 2000, while others need to take longer. We understand that the introduction of new financial regulations in the state imposes enormous demands on the different administrative components, that there is a great deal of competence to be given, and that there is a lot of testing and failure to do before you feel up to date with the demands that the Government itself has made on its own business. But I have to say that I think – to put it mildly – that the Stortinget will be very angry if next year's Document No. 1 contains the same critical remarks to the same departments, the same administrative units that we see this year, and that we saw last year. So I recommend as much as I can to the Minister of Finance to address this problem and allocate the necessary resources to get the promise that will and must be made to get the state's accounting in such a situation that we do not have the Riksaudition to exercise strong criticism of the very central parts of the country's economic activity. The Committee has removed two issues from Document No. 1, which we'll get back to with a separate treatment. One case comes as a consequence of the fact that the National Audit Office had to withdraw its proposal for a decision on dismissal, because it later became aware of the lack of reconciliation in the Coastal Works' accounts. With regard to that matter, we will return to Stortinget with a separate position when we have received a new proposal for a decision by the Riksrevision. But this is actually quite illustrative, especially when you see all the notes that have been made to the accounts of the Coastal Directorate over the years. The second issue is – I allow myself to say – more political. It is part of the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport and, in the case of FATIMA, a road project in Finland where there have been large exceedances in relation to the initial estimate of costs. Also with regard to this matter, we will return to Stortinget with a separate position when we have given the matter the thorough treatment that such a case – with such a great exceedance – requires. I would just like to conclude by saying that the comments made by the Committee on Document No. 1 – where, of course, we do not comment on all the details in the Riksrevision's description, but where, this time, we have concentrated on commenting on the notes of strong criticism, namely the dissent proposal 'can pass', and yet a document so large – shows the seriousness of the later state accounts. With this, I would like to recommend the various points in the setting up of the Control and Constitutional Committee on State Accounts and Matters for Decision of the Storting and for Information.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1452	Document No 1 from the National Audit Office has now become, in its content, a very central document in central government. In some years, the Riksrevision has pointed out that accounting in different departments and underlying departments has been deficient. A joint committee is serious about the fact that, on the occasion of the case, the National Audit Board has had to assign the Prime Minister's office to point out the seriousness of the matter and to make sure that progress is being made in improving the procedures. It is undoubtedly important that the quality of accounting work be given a higher priority throughout the whole administration. No one is earned with incomplete or non-transparent accounts. A true and fair view of the operations carried out must be provided. The Committee is aware that the Prime Minister’s Office has requested the Ministry of Finance to take action as soon as possible to improve the current situation, not least the Chairman of the Committee. The assumption must be that the accounts of the departments must be improved in accordance with current regulations. No one's earned that we don't have good accounting practices. Now it also has to be added that new procedures have been put in place in the departments recently, and I believe that there may be a shortage of some staff in the departments to be able to implement the accounts in a good way. However, this should not, of course, relieve the departments or excuse the situation, but it should be clarified that there is a need for more expertise in this area. As rapporteur for the affairs of the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Transport, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the handling of one case by the Ministry of Fisheries, on the lack of reconciliation and documentation in the accounts of the Coastal Authority for 1998, and case No. 3 under the Ministry of Transport, concerning FATIMA, has been removed and will be dealt with in an appropriate manner at a later stage. We'll get back to that. I would also refer to the Committee's comments and recommend the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1467	In the light of the examination of case No. I think it's going to be a good thing that we're going to get research and education that's going to raise the level, which is something that the departments and government can also benefit from. Because that's what the departments got here. It is indicative of the situation and of the ‘general health status’ of the State Health Authority that they have not had their accounts approved. And it is clear that it is very serious. It is very serious about the shortcomings which one in the field of administration has detected here, it is not in accordance with the legislation and requirements of the departments themselves vis-à-vis other departments. From the point of view of the Progress Party, we welcome the unanimous vote of the Control Committee on this matter. I would also like to stress most strongly what the chairman of the committee, Jørgen Kosmo, stressed, namely that one also expects this work to be followed up in a real and serious way from the department headed by Gudmund Restad. This work needs to be given priority, because if not, we get a system in the long term that gives the impression that the state, the departments and the administration, have one set of rules and one regulation to deal with, while all the others have a much more stringent requirement to stick to laws and regulations. And it's not healthy for Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1476	The Committee expresses its view in its vote that it is serious about the failure of the accounting and financial management procedures in the departments and underlying activities of the Riksrevision in Document No. 1 and by letter dated 3 September last year to the Prime Minister's office and the Ministry of Finance. The Committee stresses the importance of giving priority to the follow-up of problems throughout the administration. The Chairman of the Committee, Jørgen Kosmo, also stressed the seriousness of the matter. I take very seriously the circumstances mentioned in the Riksrevision letter and in the vote. In the reply letter that follows as an attachment to the cancellation, I have stated that I share the Riksrevision's assessment that further action is needed in the areas addressed. In this respect, the Ministry of Finance has paid particular attention to strengthening and developing further joint actions in central government. This applies to measures designed to enable ministries and underlying establishments to comply with, inter alia, the requirements for: the country's accounting and financial legislation. The Ministry of Finance is responsible for the State’s financial legislation. At the same time, it is important to stress that satisfactory financial management is primarily a management responsibility of individual state activities. This responsibility is also underlined by the National Audit Office in their letter. Furthermore, in designing measures, I emphasise that they should not be able to contribute to changing the relationship between the Ministry of Finance's responsibility for legislation in this field and the respective Ministry's responsibility for financial management in the Department itself and in the underlying activities. The concrete actions announced in the Ministry of Finance’s reply to the National Audit Office of 3 December 1999 are now being prepared. These measures aim at both helping to strengthen the competence of the administration and improving the accounting systems used. Among the measures is a course for the administrative management of the departments and the underlying activities, network groups in which employees, among others, work. in the accounting function, experience may be shared with employees in other establishments and the distribution of routine descriptions for reconciliation to establishments. For the follow-up to the framework agreements for economic systems, the State Administrative Service, together with the Ministry of Finance, has met with suppliers, where their plans for the further development of the systems have been reviewed. Government administration is also strengthening staffing in this area. In addition, the Ministry of Finance has made good progress in planning the experience gained on economic legislation as announced in the 2000 Yellow Book. Experience is focused on getting concrete feedback from departments and underlying businesses on the services provided and on how well these are adapted to the needs of users. Contacts with users at these key points are expected to take place during the first half of 2000. Most of the planned concrete actions will be implemented during the first half of 2000. I can confirm that there is a great deal of emphasis on keeping the promised progress in this work. Then it's in Document No. 1 and also in the suspension mentioned four cases under the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance. The chairman of the committee also pointed that out. So let me just briefly mention what has been done in these four areas, and first Oslo and Akershu Tax Agency and the accounting there. As the Committee is aware, the Ministry of Finance has a continuous follow-up to the activities of the Tax Directorate towards Oslo and Akershus Tax Board. In order to improve accounting at the office, it may be disclosed that the directorate, among others. have taken the following measures: new recruitment of employees systematic lifting of staff in accounting reorganization of the trade department, with increased emphasis on specialising the transfer of payroll and accounting customers to other tax administration offices assistance from the Tax Directorate, other tax administration offices and consultants, including management support strengthening the department's resource situation reporting to the Tax Directorate on the operational situation every 14 days; However, it has been shown that it has taken longer than expected before the measures have been implemented. The Ministry will therefore continue to pay great attention to this matter. According to the Tax Directorate, controls carried out during 1999 show a significant improvement in the quality and completion of accounting material. The matters referred to by the National Audit Office in relation to reconciliations and differences must now be essentially settled. This applies to weaknesses and shortcomings in the accounts of the Customs and Tax Directorate. A significant part of the weaknesses and shortcomings in the accounts of the Customs and Tax Directorate has been linked to the old accounting system MASYS, which is now phased out. The TVIST2000 development programme, such as: has had the main objective of ensuring auditable accounts, has just been completed and implemented in the customs and tax haven. The introduction of a new charging system and an economic system related to TVIST 2000 was completed in November 1999. The systems ensure that the customs and charging seat has a financial management that is consistent with the economic legislation. New technological solutions along with increased focus on good quality in the accounts in the department mean that I have every reason to believe that the accountancy of the Directorate-General for Customs and Fees will no longer be associated with the weaknesses and deficiencies that the Court of Auditors has revealed. In addition, the Ministry of Finance has underlined the importance of this case in the letter of allocation to the Directorate of Customs and Fees for this year and has asked the Directorate to follow up on the necessary measures, including, inter alia, the following: to assess more frequent controls of private customs warehouses. So the third of the cases, which concerns new procedures for accounting for VAT. Previous VAT accounting procedures were not satisfactory. The main problem was that it was not possible to reconcile the accounts on a national basis and that there was a lack of management of unidentified payments. The Tax Directorate has developed a new solution that allows for constant reconciliation of accounts on a national basis and new practices such as: includes: machinery solution for the treatment of unidentified payments better reconciliation and accrual procedures for reporting to government accounts ongoing evaluation of new procedures for checking compliance with routines monthly reporting to the Ministry of Finance on the outcome of control and enforcement The monthly reporting introduced on 1 July 1999 shows the proper functioning of the new solutions and procedures. And then finally the fourth case, about petroleum taxes. As an adaptation to the Financial Regulation, responsibility for the management of the petroleum tax account was transferred from the camedian of Oslo to the Skattenfog of Oslo and Akershus. In the post-transfer period, there have been some problems with both the accounting system and compliance with established procedures, etc. The transfer was subject to the inclusion of the petroleum tax account in the tax administration’s own accounting system. However, it took more than one year after the transfer before it worked. In addition, payments were misitemiated and on one occasion an amount of approx. 50 million. kr paid to the wrong company. These errors were corrected during the spring of 1999. However, the mispayment led to errors in the national accounts for 1998. In autumn 1999, the accounting solution of the tax authority became clear, and the Tax Directorate has established new guidelines and a routine description of the tax administration’s work on the petroleum tax account. During the period following the introduction of the new solution, the directorate has had a close follow-up to the tax liability, and there has been no errors in guidance or reporting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1568	Just pretty short. I feel a need to reassure both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister and, in particular, other government councils that we have no desire to seek to make individuals in the Government responsible for the challenges facing us here, but it is clear that here individual government councils, together with the other management elements in the state, must take responsibility for doing something about it. In some parts of central government, management pay contracts are included, with extra payments being made to assume management responsibilities. And if you are not even able to deliver approved accounts, there is reason both for the individual Council of State and also for the Stortinget to ask questions about whether the contract has been fulfilled. We are very serious about this. We have to see how this works out gradually, but what we're now clearly stressing and clarifying is that this needs to be focused on all levels of management.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1577	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2112]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1591	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2112]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1605	Document No 3:2 deals with matters of the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including those of the Council of State for Development and Human Rights. I want to draw attention to one of the cases. In 1997, the State Investment Fund for Enterprises in Developing Countries was established, the so-called NORFUND. The objective is to contribute to equity and other risk capital as well as to provide loans and guarantees to build sustainable business in developing countries, an important work. In 1998, the fund was allocated a total of 175 million. This work, which is particularly important in this field. A member of the Management Board of NORFUND is appointed from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In a letter to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the National Audit Office concerned this issue, relating to the provisions of the State Staff Manual. A joint committee took note of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs letter dated 9 February. in particular with regard to the limited liability of the Norwegian State in the fund. In spite of this, the Committee asks the Ministry, in relation to the composition of the Board of Directors, to consider the matters referred to by the Committee in the preparation of new instructions or to discuss the matter with the Advocate-General as a clarification of this matter. I would also refer to the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1614	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2112]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1628	It is a unanimous committee which considers it regrettable that the procedure in both the Health and County Medical Services, which is covered by this report, is in a way that should not be the case. Substantial cases and very many cases are delayed, and the in-house procedure in the department helps to increase the length of proceedings. When we look back at a previous case, where the State Health Authority was also in the picture because the accounts were not approved, one sees that the State Health Authority is facing a major challenge, also with regard to what we are dealing with in this case. The Committee agrees that the National Audit Office’s assessments and review of the Health and County Medical Services raise important questions about the etat working methods, as it is clear that there is a great deal to be gained from redesigning and streamlining systems. It is also positive that one has recently seen a positive trend in the procedure for new cases in the Health Authority. It is also consistent with the requirement that the Ministry came with after the Riksrevision had looked at the trial period. The Committee has also noted, as the Riksrevision has emphasised and said, that the Ministry is to review both procedures and organisation with the Health Inspectorate with a view to improving the efficiency of the county medical services. The length of the procedure also helps to ensure that the matters that are important are put at risk. This is why a unanimous committee has confidence that the Department and the Council of State will follow this further, as they have done over a few years, in order to improve the organisation of the Health and County Medical Services. In conclusion, there is also reason to stress that the right to complain about defects and deficiencies in the healthcare system is not statutory, and therefore, in particular, the Health Authority, with the indirect supervisory responsibility it has with regard to the state supervision of healthcare, an important responsibility and an important work to follow up here. It is then important that the accounts are in order and that the ministry continues to follow up so that one can improve for all parties in this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1641	The purpose of the National Audit Office’s analysis has been to examine whether the objective of effective judicial proceedings to ensure legal certainty has been sufficiently achieved by the Health and County Medical Officers. The National Audit Office’s report on complaints dealt with in 1997 revealed several shortcomings in the proceedings both in the Health and County Medical Services. The Court of Auditors concluded that none of the five county medical offices covered by the study met the objective of the procedure laid down by the Ministry in the 1997 letter of award. It was discovered from the Riksrevision that it takes a long time before proceedings are initiated, that the reminder routines were partially poor and that some cases remain pending during the procedure itself. Furthermore, it was found that in some cases it took too long from the completion of the case investigation to the conclusion that it was available. There was also a wide variation in the judgement of county doctors in the complaints cases. A key issue is whether the investigative capacity, competence and organisation of the establishment are good enough in this type of case. In addition, it was noted that the county doctors in their decisions do not disclose the right to appeal to the Health Authority, as pointed out by the Civil Ombudsman as early as 1996. Such a procedure, which has been identified here, is far from satisfactory. For the accused health professionals, waiting for the decision on the case may be a heavy burden; both the Ministry and the State Health Authority have a common understanding of what needs to be addressed in order to ensure a sound procedure. During the period following the review of the Riksrevision, there has been a decrease and an improvement in the procedure, but in 1999 the level of complaints to the Health Inspectorate has increased markedly. Several grips have therefore been necessary. Health surveillance has itself addressed the routines and organisation of the archival systems of county medical offices. It has helped set up internal procedures to do things quickly that can be done quickly, and that work is organised and prioritised by severity. The Ministry has asked the Health Authority to assess the internal redistribution of resources. The report found that Oslo’s county doctor is in a special position in relation to Oslo’s high population, many private centres, a large number of health professionals and large central institutions. In the 2000 budget, there has been a strengthening of the appeal handling resources in the Health Authority, and in particular for the district doctor in Oslo. The Court of Auditors’ report refers to the Civil Ombudsman’s statement that no judicial remedies were provided for in the decision of the district doctor. I have followed this up, and the Health Inspectorate has clarified to the County Medical Practitioners that their decision on so-called informal criticism should state the right to apply to the Health Authority. In 1998, the Health Inspectorate established a project on the methodological development of the supervision of health professionals by county doctors and health authorities, the so-called individual supervision project. The issues addressed in the audit report will be largely followed up in this project with regard to the appeal proceedings themselves. The aim of the project is to develop methods of individual supervision in order to achieve a coherent approach and harmonisation. Work is well under way and takes place in dialogue with the department. From 1 March 2000, the Health Authority shall establish a temporary project organisation with regard to the handling of complaints. The background for such an organisation is the ever-increasing amount of business. In the second half of the year, a training programme is started for those involved in the handling of supervisory matters, in order to start the adaptation of supervisory tasks under the new health legislation. Health supervision and county doctors supervise both health care and individual health professionals. In addition to the supervisory tasks, they have important advisory and administrative tasks. In addition, they have an important role to play in the implementation of the health policy and escalation plans in the sector. I have seen it necessary to consider a stronger focus on the main tasks of supervision. This was briefly mentioned in St. Prp. No 1 and will be started during the winter. The review procedure concerns the legal security of healthcare professionals. The system that provides patients and their relatives with an opportunity to complain to personnel is established for the quality and safety of healthcare. The outcome of a complaint is primarily having consequences for the individual personnel. Under the new Health Care Act, which I intend to apply from next year, a new administrative body, the State Health Care Agency, will be set up. This shall be an indication of complaints of the Health Authority’s decision against health professionals. The legal certainty of health professionals will be ensured by way of consideration in a much better way than today, how many are without formal legal remedies to the overall body. I am therefore very confident that the new law will lead to better conditions in this area, but the requirements for effective treatment of both county doctors and health services will continue to apply. I will continue to follow up on the issues raised in the Riksrevision report. This also applies to the other case, to which the representative Kleppe referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1667	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2113]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1681	Local wage policies provide greater opportunities for the use of wages to recruit, develop and maintain skilled employees and form one of several elements of national staff policy. In the new pay system in the country, it is a prerequisite for enterprises to develop a local wage policy. This policy must be agreed, i.e. it shall be jointly designed by the employer and the relevant civil servants’ organisations. The aim of the National Audit Office’s analysis has been to assess the ministry’s efforts to develop local wage policies internally and towards underlying activities in relation to the overall objectives in this area. Thus, there is a limited sample covered by the report, and therefore it cannot be said to be representative of the development of the country as such. There are three main aspects which have been examined: how the Ministry of Labour and Administration has followed up the Ministries with regard to the development of local wage policies, how the departments have followed up underlying activities, and whether there is a link between the level of turn and the funding of their own resources in local negotiations. The amount of centrally earmarked funds for local negotiations has increased since the introduction of the new pay system in 1991, but the ministries believe that they are so small that this hinders the development of a local wage policy. There are considerable variations between departments in terms of how much they have contributed from their own resources to the negotiations, but there does not appear to be any connection with tourovers. In addition, the Committee has noted that there may be differing views within central government on the concept of turnover, and the Committee therefore asks the Ministry of Labour and Administration to take the initiative to gain an agreed understanding of the concept. Furthermore, the study shows that the follow-up procedures of the departments to the underlying establishments seem to work satisfactorily, but the study contains some critical comments on the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and Administration as a central employer body. The Committee has noted that the Ministry of Labour and Administrative Affairs disagrees with the National Audit Office's assessment of their role, and has also taken note of the measures the Ministry of Labour and Administration considers to provide them with a good overview of local wage policy in the country. However, the Committee considers that, in the light of the Riksrevision report, it is difficult to give a comprehensive picture of whether the Premises of the Stortinge have been followed up. This is due, inter alia, to: the large differences in reporting procedures between departments. The Committee would stress that the issue of local wage policy, the disposal of pots and local wage negotiations is the subject of free negotiations between the parties. Substantial resources have been devoted to developing the new pay system, but it appears that the use of resources in local negotiations is disproportionate to the allocation of resources. The Committee therefore asks the Ministry of Labour and Administration to consider how to streamline the arrangements and whether it is appropriate to ask the parties to assess the practice of local negotiations, based on the facts set out in the report of the National Audit Office. I would also recommend the unanimous recommendation of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1707	All of them first, I want to pay tribute to the Riksrevision for taking hold of this area. I also need to add that I think the Riksrevision shows a very good ability to reveal and focus on the lack of follow-up to the decision making process. There are probably more people who do not like either the Riksrevision report or my post today, but I would like to remind you that the Stortinget is ultimately responsible for the government's wage policy and is the sponsor of one party. We determine objectives and instruments. The parties negotiate within these limits. This is not an invitation for us to go into wage negotiations in this room. There is a matter between the parties. In this context, the National Audit Office has looked at local wage policies in the departments and the ministerial follow-up to what is happening in the underlying establishments. It is revealed that the targets adopted by the Storting in the early 1990s have not been met and to some extent have not been met either. The introduction of a new payroll system — perhaps not so new anymore — created great expectations, and many thought and some hoped that this was the key to solving some of the problems facing the state that the employer was facing today. It is timely that the Riksrevision examines this, and we have to consider very carefully why the targets have not been met. It's e.g. a situation The size should be concerned when several public bodies claim that the reason for the failure of the accounts of the State and in some cases the failure to accept them is the lack of recruitment of competent staff, which Jørgen Kosmo has also been involved in earlier today. The purpose of the new pay system was to recruit, develop and maintain qualified staff from Stortinget. One of the problems seems to be that neither the department nor the underlying agencies have sufficiently broken the assumptions underlying local wage policies, for example: the establishment of a separate activity and staff plan as a basis for the establishment of pay criteria. The parties agreed on this. Other prerequisites are that there should be real right of negotiation between equivalent parties – and trustees do not always feel like equivalent parties. Today, we know that only a small part of the wage settlement takes place locally, and that is a result of the parties’ free right to negotiate – but the result is true, contrary to what the Stortinge wanted, namely that a greater proportion of the wage formation should be done locally. That's what's in the big shot. It would have been interesting to know the Council's opinion on this. There is a lot of time to negotiate relatively small pots, and there are many who find it quite meaningless. I have no idea how large this pot should be, but I have an opinion that the use of time and resources must be proportionate to the resources to be allocated. We have also said something about this in the comments in the settings. Another problem for the state that the employer is touring, which was also discussed by the case-rapporteur. The National Auditor's report reveals that we know too little about this. Yes, the departments do not even agree on what is to be defined as tourover. The National Audit Office points to the lack of Tournament Statistics. It surprises me that the departments are not more concerned with this or with monitoring the effects of local wage policy. The report of the National Audit Office also shows that the instruments are used to a maximum varying extent. A positive result of this survey is that departments use non-wage instruments to maintain staff. This was also a point in St.meld. No 35 for 1991-92 on how the State should assert itself in the competition for labour. It would have been interesting if the Council of State could show which instruments make the most rash. The same message also states that the new pay systems should be used to promote real gender equality. I wonder if the ladies in the archive are going through the fight against the quick-footed comrades when the leaders are going to hand out salary increases. They're the ones that are kind of the least visible in a day-to-day way. We do not know how wage developments have been for the different groups since the introduction of the pay system, but equality was an important perspective in this way. The National Audit Office points out that the Ministry of Labour and Administration has not established procedures to carry out a regular evaluation of the policies and framework conditions underlying the local wage policy. Then it might not be so strange that we haven't achieved better results. But I think the department should notice the criticism that they have played a passive role in this. The weaknesses revealed by the Riksrevision are due to – as I see it – largely poor government leadership. Leaders at different levels do not do their job and seem to both overlook and exceed the Storting's assumptions, and I believe that this is completely unacceptable. The ministry has to do something about this. In this context, it would be interesting to know more about, for example: the actual role of NATO. NATO has become a significant player, and the Stortinget should also have the opportunity to discuss the experience with NATO after all the reorganisations we have had in the country. The National Audit Office's report has one weakness, and it is not insignificant, but I understand that it has not addressed it: we do not know the employee organisations' opinions and experiences about the new pay system. For this reason, we have asked the Ministry, in a note, to address the negotiating parties, to assess the practice of local negotiations. Then we are also assured to have their opinions, experiences and views. I think it is high time for such an evaluation, so that the Storting can be up-to-date with the current situation and, if necessary, assess the need for change. So far, we have focused on the struggle for long-term labour. However, it is also important to remember that the pay system and local negotiations should also work well for general government employees. It's very strange that happens locally, which is also contrary to the intentions behind the pay system. This indicates a lack of professionalism on the employer’s side. A study carried out by the STL showed that 17 out of 42 departments that had responded did not experience the negotiations as real. If all government employees are to contribute to the timely development of the public sector, they must experience that they are valued and local trustees must feel that they are equal partners in a well-functioning job democracy. The premise for a agreed wage policy is still lacking in several places. The managers do not know about the contract work, at least not well enough, and secret agreements are concluded. All of this is up to the Council of State to figure it out. I do not ignore the fact that the departments have underreported the problems of this survey, and the Council of State should also take note. I hope that the Council of State will go further in this field, and include the Riksrevision's study and the Committee's position in the further work. I would like to stress that the Stortinget should not interfere in wage negotiations, but we must be able to say something about the leaders of the state, how they carry out their management, about the human resources policy and whether or not previous payroll decisions are followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1741	Local wage formation is important for recruiting, developing and retaining employees, I agree. Since the introduction of the new pay system in 1991, the provision for local negotiations has increased slightly, from 0.25 p.m. from 1991 to 0.55 p.m. in 1998. There is a small increase, but it is also the case – as many people have been here – that it is always up to the central contracting parties to agree through negotiation whether wage formation should take place locally or centrally. Thus, the development of local wage formation depends on the way in which the funds are distributed between central and local negotiations in free negotiations. It has been said in the study from the National Audit Office that the Ministry of Labour and Administration has not had a good enough overview. What we have put in place is a number of measures that go at staff level, skills needs, wage development, gender equality, training, conferences, research projects and some reporting procedures to follow up the departmental development of local wage policies. And we have a relatively good overview in the Ministry of Labour and Administration of local wage policy in the state. Of course, as a government councillor in the Ministry of Labour and Administration, I am going to follow up on the Committee's position on the points where they have asked the Ministry to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1748	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1751	That the Council of State should follow what the Storting says is a matter of course. But I would like to ask what is the opinion of the Council of State, because both the National Audit Office's report and the committee's position – and this is also known from the media image and from other debates – point to problems that have actually been pointed out by several national audit reports. Are the Councils satisfied with the situation? Does the Council of State think that the roll-out message underlying human resources policy and wage policy is successful, or has it failed? Obviously, there is no way of keeping skilled and long-term labour. I would like to hear the opinion of the Council of State on this, and, if necessary, what the Council of State has been doing to achieve the objective that has been agreed over many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1756	We also have in the state, because we are in a tight labour market, need to constantly discuss whether we have a good enough staff policy to maintain qualified personnel. In this way, I think we both in the state, and in the public sector otherwise have major challenges. What is one of the problems of the Riksrevision report is that the term turnover has been defined differently. If I could answer that exactly, one would have to do a survey of the tourover concept in all the departments. But when that is said, I want to refer to some work that has been done recently. Among other things, we have recently completed a work on flexibility in the state. I think that will be an important basis for thinking about a more flexible labour market; we are talking about completely different working time arrangements, completely different ways of organising work, and a number of measures have been proposed. With regard to the negotiation system itself, whether or not one has gone far enough in the area of local wage formation, for example, and in the case of other issues related to wage formation, I would like to refer to the Stable Committee, which will be done with its position by the end of this year, a position that might provide a framework for how we view this with wage negotiations and staff policy into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1765	Several have not asked for the floor in reply, and others have not asked for the floor in case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2113]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1779	As rapporteur for the vote on Document No. 3:6 from the National Audit Office I need to make a few brief comments. The principle that the item is to reach all at a uniform price remains in the Committee's view. Undoubtedly, the Post Office's services are one of several important offers for maintaining a decentralised residence. The quality of life of the postal service is involved. What this matter is about is whether one has succeeded in implementing measures that lead to the securing of unprofitable postal services in all parts of the country. The National Audit Office notes that the Ministry of Transport has so far failed to draw up sufficient control procedures to ensure that current accession arrangements have the desired effect. The Committee points out that the system of payment for unprofitable postal services is an important instrument for ensuring good and equivalent postal services in all parts of the country. After seven years of experience with this premium scheme, follow-up criteria have not yet been established which provide sufficient feedback on the effectiveness of these supplements. This is not satisfactory and, of course, should be improved in the context of the significant structural changes undertaken by the Post Office in recent years. Verification of the current feed additive system is important in order to ensure that the accidental and adverse effects of the current mode of operation are prevented. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Ministry will now draw up specific accounting rules such as: shall ensure that any adverse and unintended effects of the current contribution to the Post are avoided. The members of the Committee from the Progress Party and the Right point to the methodological problems associated with the calculation of the cost of purchasing unprofitable postal services by the State. The Committee also has no specific comments on the matter, but wants to get a better routine, and we expect it to happen through signals from the ministry. I also recommend the Committee's position on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1798	There is a high cost when the Riksrevision in its report notes, as the rapporteur said, that the Ministry of Transport has not yet established follow-up criteria and a satisfactory feedback system on the results of the grant scheme, after nearly seven years of experience in the payment of unprofitable postal services. No evaluation has been carried out to assess whether the objectives of the scheme have been achieved and what has been the social impact of the scheme. The result has therefore been that the department has not been able to inform the Storting about what results have been achieved. Everyone knows that the Post has carried out extensive restructurings in recent years. In particular, this has been the case for the network structure, which has resulted in the closure of many post offices and increased use of outbound dispatch services. However, irrespective of this extensive restructuring, Stortinget has stated that the level of service in the postal network should be maintained. It is the responsibility of the Post within the framework conditions given to find effective and good solutions to fulfil the societal tasks to be performed. And as it says in the National Audit Office's report: ‘As long as the service is maintained, the Post itself must select the most efficient and suitable combinations of controls in the individual areas. The Ministry’s task will be to oversee that the degree of service is maintained independently of the mode of operation.’;» When Stortinget on 19 June 1996 had a broad review of the postal activity in Norway, it became, among other things, from the rapporteur, Mr Røtweg, stressed that a future check on the level of service needs to be set up in an appropriate manner, adapted to the services actually involved. As he also said, there will still be a “need for government purchases of postal services to secure offers and services in all parts of the country. The Post Office needs efficient and long-term planning. This requires the owner’s income requirements and dividend policy to be predictable and long-term’. I agree with that. We need to be careful about locking the Post's strategy and action spaces, such as: can mean that we get a post office in Norway that is left with the markets that no one else wants. I also know a certain undermining of the Posten's prospects if we were to open up too strict detailed management or demand service guarantees as one knows it is difficult to implement in practice. The Progress Party and the Right have a brief common note in the attitude of the Control and Constitutional Committee, pointing to the major methodological problems associated with the calculation of the costs of purchasing unprofitable postal services by the State. They find it difficult to know whether the State pays the right price for unprofitable services as long as the services are not exposed to competition. For the Workers' Party, it has been a matter of course that the authorities must have a clear task of overseeing that the level of service for the Post is not impaired as a result of the significant changes that have taken place in the postal network. There is therefore real reason to take seriously the Riksrevision that the Ministry of Transport has not been sufficiently active in its supervision of the level of service in the postal network. We therefore find it natural that the department should ensure that there is a proper follow-up in the area. It would also be natural for quality measurements to be carried out by bodies which are not directly subject to the postal operators. Instead of offering unprofitable postal services, as requested by the Contracting Party and the Right, the Ministry must ensure sufficient influence on the measurements made in terms of the quality of the national postal services. This was otherwise also provided in St.meld. No 41 for 1995-96 on postal activities in Norway, followed by the broad majority in the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1816	It could have been tempting to have a discussion with the representative of Skag about the last thing he mentioned, how we're going to organise the Post, and how we're going to claim the Post that makes us get a post offer across the country that's good enough for a new millennium. But that is not what we are dealing with today – what we are dealing with is the review of this by the National Audit Office. It is clear that we are not satisfied with the follow-up that has been on the part of the Department and the Council of State here. But the right thing to do is, it's not the sitting state council that has done and stood for the most part in this case – that has not been followed up properly. Here we have seen a development in which one cannot meet the concession requirements set by the Storting. It is a bit of a challenge for the majority that has laid the foundation for the changes we have seen within the Post, by the leaders that have been put. When we look at the follow-up to concession requirements, we see that people get reduced postal services. They're not getting the mail out. Often it takes a long time between getting the mail, if they are so lucky to get it at all, and many people even have to pick up the post themselves. We see that in the first quarter of 1999, the rate of achievement was only 72.7 pst. of what the Post had set itself as a goal. The starting point for the concession requirement was that 93 pst. of all the A-mail should be the addressee of her day after posting. So it's clear that the concessions given here to the Post are not fulfilled, and here the Ministry and the Council of State have a great responsibility towards the Norwegian people. We've seen that the sitting state council has actually taken this into account and done something about it. That, at least, seems to us on the side of the Advancement Party to be happy. However, with regard to the unprofitable postal services, we believe from the Progress Party that the branch structure needs to be reviewed. Like the Right, we want to open up to stimulate competition, that is, to get others to provide the postal services that the Post, although it has monopoly, cannot provide. We all think we should do that. The review and conclusion of the National Audit Office with regard to the state of health in the Post Office, and with regard to the follow-up by the Ministry of Transport, is not the best, so the supervisory authorities now need to clarify and determine what cross-subsidies are considered in the case of unprofitable postal services. There we see that there has been a problem. It has been impossible, shows the National Audit Office's report, based on the accounting system and the checks that have been carried out, to reveal how much this has cost in dollars and cents, and the way in which the rules have not been followed up. But I have faith that the Council of State of Færvoll in this area, as he has done in many areas, will follow up in a thorough and real way that will give us a postal service that both the Riksrevision, the Storing majority and the Advance Party can say they are satisfied with. And it says when the Riksaudition, which is not so strong in its statements, in a formed language, is as much as it is in the document relating to the matter that we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1831	The National Audit Office’s report and the Committee’s comments on the purchase of postal services by the State are clear evidence that the Ministry of Transport has not given sufficient attention to following up and documenting the content and quality of the Post’s service to the population. Despite the dissatisfaction of more and more users and criticism of Posten’s services — and it may be especially in the districts that the criticism has been loudest — the Ministry has still not established satisfactory follow-up criteria and follow-up systems for the purchase of postal services. It's also from the National Audit Office and the Committee focused on seven-year-old sins, and it's almost odd that this hasn't come into place. As a monopoly company, the Post is in a special position. In the opinion of the Right, this imposes specific requirements on the Ministry of Transport in order to be able to demonstrate how today's service offers meet or do not meet the needs of the inhabitants. It is therefore essential that follow-up criteria and performance follow-up systems for the purchase of services be put in place as a matter of urgency if the Storting is to be able to take a picture of the situation regarding the availability of postal services. The right is concerned with ensuring a high-quality postal service provision in the districts as well. At the same time, the Right is committed to assessing whether these services can be performed in a more cost-effective way. In other words, the question is whether the state can get more money back by concluding distribution agreements with others than the Post. In the position in a specific note, the right has pointed to the major methodological problems associated with the calculation of the cost to the State of the purchase of unprofitable postal services. It is currently difficult to know whether the State pays the right price for unprofitable postal services as long as these services are not exposed to competition, and the Right therefore considers that the performance of unprofitable postal services should be put on the market. Good access to postal services is important for individuals and can in fact be crucial for enterprises located in District Norway, where good and predictable postal distribution systems are one of several key factors in being able to compete with similar establishments located in more central and densely built areas. Against this background, the Right considers that the Ministry of Transport must take the initiative to test whether unprofitable postal services can be provided cheaper and better by others. In conclusion, we now experience a near explosion in electronic commerce – a way to obtain goods that, in the next round, requires an efficient distribution device for customers. In this context, we are faced with a new major challenge of facilitating the same ease and, of course, of making use of online commerce whether you are in Bjarkøy in Troms or in Oslo-gryta. If, then, it appears that the Post is unable to deliver and provide a cost-effective and satisfactory distribution of goods traded on the network, it will only update further, in the opinion of the Right, the need to open up competition and alternative distributors of such goods. Otherwise, I will refer to the comments of an overall committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1846	It could be interesting to keep a long post now. Let me just say that electronic services and the decline in barrier services are one of the great challenges of the Post. This has meant that the rationalisation of the postal system has gone much faster than any of us in the past – it has been a challenge, and will be a challenge in the future to maintain a satisfactory offer in all parts of the country. The subscription will receive a new mail message in less than a year. Let me remind you that the Post has been central in all recent budget debates right here in Stortinget. I will try, in the form of a crossword, to touch some of the points that have been included in the submissions so far, and say the following: In recent years, the item has undergone extensive restructuring, especially in the network structure. The size has said that the level of service should be maintained independently of the restructuring, and that is the case with the department. However, it would be central for the public payment to be linked to the level of service in such a way as to bring the requirements of the Post into line with the resources provided. Therefore, the Government proposed an increase in payment for unprofitable postal services from 580 million in the year’s budget. NOK 730 million. NOK for just doing this, while we included Svalbard in the payment system. Postal and telecommunications supervision is now developing specific accounting rules such as: shall ensure that the necessary evidence is in place in relation to compliance with the requirement of a level playing field. Furthermore, I would like to remind you of what the Committee has also pointed out, that, on behalf of the Ministry of Transport, Deloitte & Touche ensured the quality of the estimates for the 2000 budget. I would like to stress that these measures create greater transparency and confidence in the Post's product accounts. We are working on behalf of the Ministry of Transport to put in place, within the concessions given, the demands and assumptions mentioned by several speakers in the debate so far. I refer there to the setting as it is on the table, and to the comments that the Riksrevision has made. In addition, the Ministry of Transport will follow up the work of the Postal and Telecommunications Authority on the preparation of specific accounting rules such as: shall ensure that the necessary evidence is in place in relation to compliance with the requirement of a level playing field. It is noted from the National Audit Office that these specific accounting rules include, inter alia: shall ensure that the necessary evidence is in place in relation to the requirement of a level playing field. And then it emphasizes: ‘Independent verification of product accounts will also contribute to greater transparency and confidence that the established system will demonstrate that there is no cross-subsidy.’;» The exact claim of cross-subsidy has been repeated in some debates here in the Chamber. It is important for the Ministry, it is important for the Post Office, and it is important for the Post and Telecommunications Authority to demonstrate that such cross-subsidisation does not occur. Let me then stress that the Post Norway BA is a separate company, it is a service company, it is owned by the state, but has a concession to perform tasks on behalf of the government. This concession is not a monopoly concession in areas other than exclusive rights, and the exclusive field has been restricted in postal terms one year after the other. In other words, in most areas, there is now full competition — except for what is left as an exclusive jurisdiction. In the concession that the Post received in October, new and adjusted, Stortingen’s treatment of postal messages has been captured in the last spring and EU postal directives, which have also had consequences in the EEA area. I would argue that the adjusted concession is more concrete, and the product accounts will make it easier for the future of Post Norway BA, Department of Transport, Post and Telecommunications and Stortinget to follow in how the resources are used, whether there is cross-subsidisation, or, equally important, whether the service level meets the Stortinget's requirements. Finally, let me say that what has been said in the debate, I can mainly join in regarding the attention relating to the Post, the demands related to the level of service and the wish that the Post as a company will develop positively further. In most areas, this company does an excellent job. It's got a concession to meet that challenge. I for my part, and Stortinget for its part, have set service requirements for the job that the Posten will do. We will ensure that the service requirements are met, and we will use the Postal and Telecommunications Authority to ensure that this is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1879	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2113]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1892	Then we're ready for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1899	A total of six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1 and 2, by Tomas Norvoll, on behalf of the Workers' Party, 3, 4 and 5, by Ursula Evje, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 6, from Rolf Reikvam on behalf of the Socialist Left Party The suggestions are first voted on and then over the setting. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the establishment of development programmes for artistic development at state art schools.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1925	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3, 4 and 5 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals in which companies are deducted from their investments for research and research-related work at the time of purchase of the equipment.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up and submit proposals to the Storting for the necessary boundaries between industry’s independent research activities and ordinary activities.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a broad review of the appropriateness of the current higher education structure with a view to improving the efficiency and concentration of research environments, on the basis of a professional assessment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1951	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Workers' Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the further development of competence in the higher education sector through the allocation of new recruitment positions. Some posts are made more permanent in order to enable institutions to work more long-term in building up their skills.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government, when setting up centres for excellent research, asks that a regional breakdown be also taken into account and that new disciplines may be involved.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e1993	The President assumes that the Progress Party wants to vote against? - It's confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e2022	The President assumes that the Progress Party will also vote against this? - It's confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-02-17.ana.ud590e2376	There is no record.
