ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e26	In the question of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu, the Workers' Party has had one overall goal. There is the establishment of a strong knowledge centre that can attract international competence and become a driving force in the development of Norwegian information and communication technologies. We believe that the negotiated agreement with IT Fornebu Technoport will best meet this objective. We are therefore pleased that the majority here in the Chamber supports this proposal. This means that the Government's proposal to choose the second option, Network Fornebu, will be downgraded. It is therefore clear that with regard to the main question in this case, the Workers' Party will have a majority in favour of its view, and we can finally get started to realize the IT centre at Fornebu. We have also considered that SIVA should have a central role in safeguarding the country’s interests in the IT and knowledge centre. This is in line with what the Government itself has expressed. It is also in line with the agreement negotiated between IT Fornebu Technoport and SIVA. Initially, a majority of the Business Committee had proposed that a separate decision be taken on the further role of SIVA. On the part of the Government, it was stated that this was perceived as the Stortinget's position on which state councils were to be responsible for the establishment of the centre at Fornebu. I believe that this is not a reasonable interpretation of the proposal, and at least it has never been the intention. In order to avoid any doubt as to whether it is the Government itself which decides which state councils are responsible for different parts of the Government's work, the majority has chosen to convert the proposal into a transmission proposal. When a majority in the Stortinge stands behind a transmission proposal, it at the same time expresses the will of the Stortinge. It is still the opinion of the majority of the population that SIVA should have a central role, and I assume that the government will follow this up in the further work. At the same time, we avoid derailment of the debate on the establishment of the IT centre in relation to the question of who decides which state councils are responsible for which parts of the government's work. In this way, we ensure both a majority in the choice of partners for the development of the IT centre on Fornebu and that SIVA has a central role to play in further work. So we've achieved our goals, and of course we're happy about that. It is now the ninth time the Stortinget deals with the issue of the establishment of a knowledge centre at Fornebu. Some believe that this involves an unreasonable form of landfill management. I am among those who agree that we must seek to avoid getting into situations where the Storting detailed controls the government's work. But the reason for the problems in this case is not that the Storting imposes on the Government. The problem is that we have a minority government that has not been responsive to the majority of population. If from the very beginning the government had chosen to follow up Storting's wishes and intentions, we would have avoided getting the matter processed so many times here in the hall. Now it seems that we can finally reach the necessary decisions, and that we can start setting up an IT centre. And as I have seen the spokespersons of the government parties so far in the debate, the government is now prepared to follow up the decision of the Great Government, even if the Government suffers defeat and recommended another proposal initially. I'm glad. Thus, we can now realise a national knowledge centre that is internationally competitive and that stimulates regional development and creates an environment for good ideas and new business development. This is the main outcome of today’s delinquency treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e43	The primary objective of the Government in this case has been the establishment of an internationally competitive IT and knowledge centre to care for important regional and national interests. We want to strengthen knowledge-intensive and forward-looking business. For the Government, it has been central to provide a centre which, through an interaction between research, education and business, will contribute to long-term and growth-driven IT-based business development at Fornebu. Much has happened in this case along the way. The majority seemed to want to move the boundary between the division of labour between Stortinget and the Government through their detailed management of the case. The majority initially decided to take the decision to set up an IT and knowledge centre without the thorough investigation that the Government has now carried out. In my opinion, it has been quite correct and necessary for proper treatment that there has been real competition among several stakeholders to develop the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. Long and hard negotiations have been conducted with first three, then two, stakeholders – Network Fornebu and IT Fornebu Technoport. Equally in the final negotiations, both stakeholders had problems in concreteising their plans. This was not least the case with Fornebu Technoport, especially in relation to their economic analyses, as the negotiating delegation also pointed out in its position. The government has stressed that no more capital and resources should be used than necessary to develop a professionally sound IT and knowledge centre. Like the IT-professional expertise in the negotiating delegation, the Government believes that the intentions of an internationally competitive IT and knowledge centre are well maintained within an area of 316 deches. During the negotiations, both stakeholders have also stated that it is fully possible to establish such an IT and knowledge centre within this framework. With the support of the IT-professional expertise in the negotiating delegation and from the Government's own reference group, the Government's assessment Network Fornebu has made the best offer both professionally, economically and organisationally. Fornebu Network will contribute with its concept to the development of electronic commerce in Norway, among others. through the establishment of the Institute for Electronic Distribution. The private stakeholders behind the Fornebu Network will invest significant capital in the research and development activities at Fornebu. In this concept, we believe that there can be good synergies between research, education and business, which are essential to achieving the desired economic development at Fornebu. In addition, in our opinion, they have a much simpler, clearer and more transparent organisational structure. The majority of the Industry Committee is not of the same opinion as the Government on this issue, and is therefore, as everyone knows, in favour of IT Fornebu Technoport. To that I would like to note the following: I believe it is of great importance that the main parts of the state, already adopted, deposit of 260 million in cash. kr is used to realise the vision and purpose of the IT and knowledge centre. In my opinion, it is best done in the concept of Network Fornebu. I'll explain why. The Fornebu Network is organised as a single main company which is responsible for both the professional and commercial development of the Centre. In other words, this is where the direct direction of the vision lies. It's in this company state going in with its 260 million. kr – if you select Network Fornebu. IT Fornebu Technoport plans a far more – I would say – unbridled and complicated organisation with two companies with partly different owners: a visionary company and a property company. In the vision company, the state goes under 10 pst. of the 260 million. kr, while over 90 pst. be incorporated into the property company itself. This, in my view, shows an overfocused focus on property interests and property development in relation to the primary functions associated with the development of the IT and knowledge centre. The government does not initially see it as a State task to contribute to the construction of a large number of expensive dwellings in what is to be a education and business policy measure. IT Fornebu Technoport provides for significant housing construction on Fornebu – despite the lack of professional arguments that require such extensive housing as part of such a centre. What makes the representatives – especially from the Workers' Party – choose IT Fornebu Technoport and thus use considerable government funds for the realization of expensive apartments at Fornebu is, to me, somewhat incomprehensible, especially in relation to a number of posts in this room where the Workers' Party has called for a completely different and rather social housing profile. It is important that the State has real influence in its policy-making bodies in the short and long term. This shall ensure that what the Stortinget and the Government regard as the main purpose of the Centre is also carried out over time. In my opinion, it is clearly ensured at Network Fornebu. The agreement with them effectively confers on the State the right of veto on all essential issues through the statutes, the shareholder agreement and the ownership interest. In the concept of IT Fornebu Technoport, the State could lose its influence in a few years' time in the company in which it has invested the majority of its investment, namely in the property company. This is due to already planned major issues. There is no veto right for the State in case of important decisions beyond those of the State’s holdings. The negotiations that have taken place show that none of the concepts have a solid economy, but it is likely during the negotiations that the Fornebu Network has a small positive present value of 38 million. kr. The working party and the preferred option of the Advance Party, IT Fornebu Technoport, show a negative present value of minus 127 million. NOK 605 dekar. The self-calculations by the stakeholders show that the lower the size of the economy of the project, the greater the area added. In other words, the majority would like to use several hundred million dollars of taxpayers' money to finance a project that, in the worst case, could go down. At the top of this, the same parties wish to include, through the wholesaler, an area in the centre for which none of the parties in the negotiations has expressed a need. This isn't done either. We've seen that the majority have previously agreed that SIVA should take care of the state's interests in the IT and knowledge centre. However, I am pleased that the majority now rejects its previous point II of the draft resolution and that this is now merely a proposal for transmission to the Government. The majority mention in their comments the SIVA-IT Fornebu AS Memorandum of Understanding, which the representative Hedstrøm refers to as very interesting. The Memorandum of Understanding implies that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, and not the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, as provided for by the Government, shall manage the interests of the State in Fornebu. Furthermore, the intention agreement implies that the State company SIVA, together with the private shareholders behind IT Fornebu, will set up a new company, Norsk Regional Innovation. The company should acquire SIVA's holdings in several research and business parks, commercial gardens, etc. Private investors, by far the same investors who are behind IT Fornebu, are intended for the majority of their shares in this company, thus ensuring a strong influence on a district policy apparatus that is laboriously built up by state resources. - So far, so far, so far, so far, so far, so far, so far, so far, so far, so far, so The Government has proposed that SIVA and SND participate, but not in such a way as the majority initially wished. It is in relation to the incubator activity that the Government signs a participation, cf. Chapter 5.6 of the proposal. The fact that the majority now abstains from its previous point II of the proposal for a decision leads, on my part, to a smaller need to debate the division of labour between large-scale and government here today. It is natural for the Government to organise its interests in the IT and knowledge centre and to organise the SIVA. And now we can get a proper answer to these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e81	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e84	First some comments about SIVA, which the government itself has included in the proposition. The government has also been aware of the agreement concluded with SIVA. SIVA will ensure, not least, the regional and district policy element, as Morten Lund explained and supported earlier in the debate. State Council Ms Davøy now used most of his post to argue against the majority vote's proposal to the actor. In the evening post of 3 March, she uses expressions of the majority position as ‘State loss’, ‘unprofitable’, ‘risky’ and ‘property speculation’. My question is then: What is the Council of State building this on, and how does she put up her points of view? And how can the majority, which is now to be expected to have an impact here today, assume that the Council of State is following the majority position in a professional manner with such a negative attitude as is expressed here? Because we have to assume that the Council of State now has a desire to follow up the position of the majority, and does it not aim for a tenth round?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e91	We're going to hope we don't get a tenth lap! First, to SIVA: I refer to paragraph 5.6 of the Proposition on the administrative consequences and the role of SIVA in relation to the incubator activity. It says the following: ‘In the concept of both NF and ITF, SIVA and SND will be natural partners, without a pre-determined position on issues concerning the State’s involvement in the incubator.’ So the reason for why the government primarily wanted and wants to go in for Network Fornebus concept. It's based on long negotiations, where we've done a thorough job and looked at the economy of these two projects. It turns out that both projects are risky, as I said, but there is no doubt that there is a greater risk of going into the concept of IT Fornebu Technoport, and this is well documented in the staging proposition. As far as the organization is concerned, we have stressed that the influence of the state, as I also said in my article, will be considerably greater in the least conceptual terms. And I just want to say that it would be wrong for me, and I would feel that I would not have done a good enough job in relation to the Storting, if I did not point out and justify why the Government wanted and want the Storing to choose Network Fornebu as its partner, which was also strongly highlighted by my side in the hearing, on which we were also on. We believe that we have come up with good arguments as to why the risk of Network Fornebus concept is less than the risk of the largest concept.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e105	As the representative Knudsen said, the Council of State took a lot of time and energy to argue against IT fornebu Technoport, instead of arguing for what she is for. She was also involved in the organisational structure of IT Fornebu Technoport and that with two companies. But it's a clear professional advantage to divide this into two, because then one avoids having unfortunate conflicts of interest. It is precisely with the Fornebu Network, which has to take account of the returns and profits in the same company, where you have to control the vision. This is avoided in a professional way with IT Fornebu Technoport. The State shall have a holding of nearly 50 pst. in Network Fornebu. However, this company should own approx. 10 pst. in two sub-companies, which are required to carry out incubator activities and research and development. My question to the Council of State is: how can this be described as a model that provides good government control in these two vital areas? The Council of State was concerned with this with strong governance and control, and that it was an advantage in the policy-making bodies of the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e114	From my point of view, I have seen it most appropriate to go into a concept where you have vision and property development in one company, and where you have one government with the same people. With regard to the concept of IT, Fornebu Technoport will have two companies – a large property company and a smaller visionary company – with different owners. It is also the case that the property company is, in a way, the ultimate vision company, to the extent that it is the property company that is to give funds to the small vision company. In the case of control-command in the Fornebu Network, it is correct that, for example: FU Fornebu, which shall be subject to the Fornebu Network, shall own 10 pst. But what the representative Hedstrom then forgets is that in this company, universities and colleges are going to take in and own 66 pst. This means that the state actually has a significant majority of shares through universities and colleges. It also means that we get a direct, district-friendly influence where it's the universities and colleges that are just going to make decisions on research and development, and that's what we thought was a very good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e123	I record that the Davøy government council has led and actually leads a heroic battle until the last, until the camel goes down. That's interesting, but the discomfort of swallowing it is not less for that reason. What has become a central element at the very end of this case is the SIVA element. SIVA has reportedly gone behind the back of the Government, at least the members of the government have not been briefed. Whether they should have been or not, I don't know. But what is absolutely certain is that the intentional agreement between SIVA and Fred. The Olsen Group, has two premises that it should be legally binding after we're done tonight. One is in point 6.1, where it says that the Storting must have chosen IT fornebu Technoport after the treatment here tonight. That proposal seems to have a majority. In clause 6.2, it reads: ‘The Storting decides that SIVA shall be the State operator of Fornebu both as the State investor/owner of ITF and ITFE, including that the already committed NOK 260 million allocated to investments in Fornebu is transferred to SIVA as equity.’;» What is my question is: is the Council of State considering this agreement which was lost by the fact that the Progress Party and the Workers' Party did not have nerves to endure, or is it such that the Government is prepared to take note of the fact that the majority of the population has expressed in the debate, that nothing is changed by the fact that the proposal has been turned into a transmission proposal? Or has the Prime Minister here now given another advice to the Council of State? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e135	Thank you for the good words – if I may say so – about heroic struggle. Yes, I don't give myself that easily, I admit it, but I think it's important that I from this pulpit say what I actually mean after working seriously and in depth with a matter. So to the SIVA. After all, the size at present will not decide that SIVA should be the State's operator. We're going to have a thorough treatment after the Government of how the state manages its ownership, that's one, and how the SIVA is going to organise its operations. It's up to the government to do. And that's the way I understand it, and that perhaps the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs will come up with later in his statement, that the Memorandum of Understanding is not finally dealt with in the SIVA administration either.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e142	This case evolves more and more like a farce, if it has not been all the time – and perhaps especially this morning's belly pad has confirmed it. Now, when you hear the Davøy Government Council, which is using its entire contribution in an excellent way to explain why what the Stortinget will adopt later today should not be adopted, the father is complete. Because it is absolutely impossible to understand how the Government can stand behind it, or at least accept a defeat, when the Council of State actually argues exclusively for the second option and not what is going to be adopted later. It shows that this case is a farce from start to finish. I also think that the whole project and the whole idea of IT Fornebu should not be realized. And that's basically what my question to the Council of State applies to. The proposition argues why there is no economy in the project. The project that will be adopted here, there is no economy at all, and what the Government recommends, there is a small plus margin in it. And if it turns out that there is actually no economy in this, my question goes to the Council of State: then the state no longer has the opportunity to manage the project, if I have understood this correctly – I would like to confirm that. So that means that those who are behind the Technoport project have the ability, in principle, to do whatever they want with the property. This means that you have the opportunity, if there is no economy in the project that Stortinget is going to adopt, to expand or sell to a mall; you can build new homes – you can basically do exactly what you want, because the state has then added 260 million. kr in a pot that is not controlled by the State. In principle, then, it will be the private investors that govern the development. And if, in the worst case, the department has suggested that there is no money here, there is no profitability in the project, then it is free for Fred. Olsen and his buddies to do what they want with the area, and the state has actually been a birth aid of only 260 million. excluding housing aid for the richest men and women in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e152	Now we have hope that things will go better than the worst predictions of the representative, Djupedal, but my point here today has been to make the Stortinget aware that the largest concept is risky economically, more risky. However, the Government has also – that is also a reality – presented two possible proposals. We've also been asked about this by the nutrition committee, and we've answered questions about whether both of these concepts are useful. We've also answered that question. In the case of IT, Fornebu Technoport and the reason why we think it is somewhat problematic – if we can say so – in relation to the state and influence, it is the issues that have already been decided in that concept, which means – if they go as planned – that the state has less influence in the decision-making bodies of this concept. It is a reality, but there have been others from the majority constellation earlier here today in the Grand Duchy who have said that they do not see this as a problem. But I owe the Storting to make it aware of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e159	I need to know if the Council of State is accurate in its information. I have previously referred to SIVA's governing decision, and I can continue to quote from the letter addressed to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, just from SIVA's board. It goes on to say: ‘In accordance with normal practice, final approval and signing of the Protocol shall take place in subsequent ordinary meetings of the Management Board. The decision was drawn up, read out and adopted unanimously at the meeting of the Management Board, and the draft minutes were distributed to the members of the Management Board on 22 February. No comments on the draft minutes have been received.» – This, in relation to what the Council of State said, was not dealt with in the board of SIVA. The second is that the State Council mentions IT Fornebu Technoport's project more as a property project compared to the second option. In fact, through many treatments, the Storting has reduced the criteria and leads to the choice of an actor, among others. size, ability to bet the regions, interaction with the international environment, etc. But the government says with regard to its choice of actor that they have given great emphasis to the organisation of the project, the economy of the project and the state's risk and control capacity. When it comes to the government's emphasis on the choice of actor in accordance with the criteria and premises that the Storting has drawn up in previous proceedings in this matter, my question is: is it not that with the emphasis that the Government has made here, an even greater emphasis has actually been placed on the ownership project and created a profile out of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e173	So first of all, this is SIVA. The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs received a letter from the Government of SIVA as late as yesterday. I quote from that letter: ‘A contract of intent is a model or plan agreed upon, normally at administrative level, for the further development of cooperation. The final commitment of a board, if the board has not rejected the model, can only take place once substantive discussions have been carried out, in this case referred to in the Intention Agreement as negotiations on the Aktionary Agreement and Investor Agreement, a process which cannot be started until the roles of Fornebu have been allocated.» It suggests that the Board of Directors of the SIVA has not carried out the final examination of the Memorandum of Understanding. So to the last, and there I'll just take one example. I believe that the Government and I, as far as we can, have followed up the majority of the Biggest from previous decisions. And there have been many comments and some decisions attached to this. One of the most important points I think has been the point that has been mentioned and highlighted several times by the majority, is that the state should be guaranteed permanent control in the policy-making bodies of the company you choose. We've also tried to do that. In the case of dwellings, there is no doubt that the IT centre itself can be well established without building large expensive dwellings. It's not a beard or not for the center itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e187	Can I have the floor for a public misunderstanding?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e192	The President will claim that very well can be done in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e195	The conclusion of today's debate seems to be that the Workers' Party will have a majority in its entirety, and that has been our objective, as the Labour Party's parliamentary leader, Jens Stoltenberg, earlier said. As far as the debate on big business is concerned, I would like to say that it has arisen because the Government has tried to prevent the majority's view from being implemented, so that there has been a nine-fold need for treatment here in the United Kingdom. Finally, it became necessary for the plenary board to decide that the Storting itself should choose the private interested party as a partner of the state. This was part of the government's party. The fact that the government has never had a majority for its policy in Stortinget shows the fact that the government's final recommendation is unlikely to have a majority tonight. And it's really very alarming – I would say – that the government is not part of the majority of one of the biggest industrial policy issues we've had to deal with in Stortinget for a very long time. I don't have such a good history of it, but I don't think it's happened so many times before. I was very surprised when I heard that the first of the Government's speakers here, namely the Council of State of Davøy, used a lot of his intervention to argue against what is going to be adopted. She had very serious objections, but apparently she still seems to be over a decision that is likely to be made. The Party's handling has been anchored in the long-term programme presented by the last Workers' Party Government. Our starting point was that we are living in a knowledge and innovation economy that is making new demands on the role of the state. In addition, knowledge and technology are characterised by the need for diverse and broad environments, where education, research and business work side by side. Knowledge does not thrive alone, knowledge attracts knowledge. As a result, technology and knowledge centres are now being developed in many countries where state and private capital combine to translate knowledge and research into new products and to develop new ideas. An example of the need for this link between research and industrial development is the fact that Norway was the leader in the development of the GSM telephone system, but was not itself able to keep track of its development, and other countries have traded what we invented, exploiting it commercially. There is a tearing development right outside our living room door. The Finnish state, together with private capital, has built one of the leading companies in mobile telephony, Nokia. In the Øresund region, the Swedish and Danish states are investing considerable capital, yes, what we are discussing here today is almost nothing against the Swedish and Danish states' efforts to develop integrated environments of education and research in this region that are perhaps going to be the largest magnet for knowledge and technology across Northern Europe, just outside our living room door. There's a lot of focus on Fred. The oil in this debate over a long time, but the fact is that Telenor is the largest partner in IT Fornebu Technoport. Telenor is our most important technology company, and you might say that it's Norway's answer to Nokia and LM Ericsson. I would like to know if other countries had seen their way to putting such a company outside in such a context as we are now discussing. IT Fornebu Technoport is the only one of the two that have formal commitments with foreign companies and universities. IT Fornebu Multimedia Learning has signed 17 Memorandums of Understanding and Framework Agreements with municipalities and regional centres across the country on online education through electronic classrooms. What we're discussing here is business development and district development based on having a strong national centre at Fornebu that we're going to develop, and also getting corresponding regional centres across the country. This is the industrial policy of the future and the rural policy of the future. It has taken a long time to get this done. We've lost a lot of time. Now I really hope we get started.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e214	Representatives of the Government and Government Parties have previously explained in the debate the Government's view of the establishment of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. They have also argued for our view of which of the companies concerned should be selected as actors and partners with the state. The Government, following previous decisions in Stortinget, has concluded negotiations with two companies and presented the results to the Stortinget, recommending that one be chosen. The reasons for this are good. It has to do with the influence of the country, financial contributions, risk, etc. When we have presented the Stortinget both options, we have also agreed that the Stortinget can choose a different option from what the Government has recommended, and I understand from the vote and the debate that this is the case. Because of the course of the debate in the morning meeting, my contribution will be somewhat different from what I originally thought. However, I would like to add some comments to the motion for a resolution II, which is the State body – the SIVA industrial plant of the state – to be the government's tool in cooperation with the private company elected as an actor. A decision on this would, in my opinion, be to enter into a responsibility of the Government. The management of national companies has been entrusted to the Government and normally delegated to the Ministry of the Company. The size is not directly related to the companies, and the Storting itself does not exercise direct ownership control. This implies that management is to deal with the Ministry of Ownership. In my opinion, a decision by the majority's proposal II and the premises on which it is based would have affected these important principles. Such a decision would, in my view, distort the relationship between corruption and government in a very unfortunate way. A government to govern must have power and authority on such issues as this. This issue was not really about whether it is SIVA or other State companies or enterprises that are to be the government's tool at an IT and knowledge centre in Fornebu. The issue was whether the Government should continue to have the authority — and the necessary trust — to determine which parts of the State activities it intends to use in such a case. It is important that the Government be able to properly assess and assess the impact of the major issues raised by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. It is a little more than under which the State's involvement is to be organised, as the Labour Party's parliamentary leader has made it. You can see that by reading the comments of the majority of the votes, pages 8 and 9. Finally, let me say that I think the handling of this proposal has now come into a constructive and sensible path. Let me also say that I have a hope and a belief that the planned IT and knowledge centre can contribute to a positive development for Norwegian competence in information and communication technology and innovation activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e233	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e236	I am pleased that the Prime Minister makes it clear that he and his Government are aware that they suffer defeat, and also choose in this area to administer a policy they initially disagree with. The problem is that in many cases we have seen that when the government doesn't run through things, but does things it doesn't really believe in, things take an unnecessary long time, we experience training and we experience unnecessary problems. But now I hope that we are at this stage that we can now get started and get the Fornebu Centre set up. I feel that what the Prime Minister says is that even if we adopt a different scheme than the government saw for itself – initially, one was sceptical about state participation at all and chose another model and company – it will now continue to work. My main question to the Prime Minister is whether he can confirm that it will now be loyally followed up on the decisions that the Stortinget seems to be making later this evening. My other question is related to this with SIVA. It is not that the question of SIVA is something the Labour Party and the Advance Party invented to plague the Government. It is quite right, as the representative Rudihagen says, that there is an agreement of intent that has been concluded, and it is dealt with in substance in the board of directors. It would have been an advantage if the Prime Minister could clarify that what the Minister of Administration said is wrong. The agreement of intent has been dealt with in substance by the Governing Board, but the additional agreements which will result from the agreement of intent after the decision of the Stortinget has been taken have not, of course, been dealt with by the Board, because they have not yet been drawn up, first the Stortinget must take its decisions. But that agreement is in place, it's dealt with in the board, and we believe that the main point is that SIVA should have a central role, as the government has expressed both in the proposition and in other contexts. At least it could be a good idea to clarify that the Memorandum of Understanding has been dealt with on the board, and that it is not as the Minister of Administration has twice said, that it has not been dealt with there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e243	As far as the latter is concerned, I have to draw the attention of the representative Stoltenberg and Stortinget to the fact that the Minister of Administration did not say that the Memorandum of Understanding was not dealt with on the board, but she made note of what the board itself has stated in a letter to the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Regional Affairs, which included that. it reads as follows: ‘The final commitment of a board, if the board has not rejected the model, may only take place once substantive discussions have been carried out, in this case referred to in the Intention Agreement as negotiations on the Aktionary Agreement and Investor Agreement, a process which cannot be started until the roles of Fornebu have been allocated.’;» That's what the Minister of Administration has said. I also have to make it clear that Chapter 6 of the Memorandum of Understanding states that the parties are ‘agreements on the implementation of the issue as described in Section 6. 5 above, provided that the following conditions are met:»; And one of the conditions referred to here, point 6.2, is that ‘The size decides that SIVA should be the State actor at Fornebu’, etc. These are the actual ratios. As far as Stoltenberg is concerned, obviously, there is a big point, namely that the Government is in agreement with a defeat, since we have presented both options, the Government has been in agreement that the Storting could choose another option, but here Stoltenberg speaks out of great experience in not getting through proposals in the Stortinget. According to an article by researcher Hilmar Rommetvedt in the World Gang yesterday, it turns out that with regard to the number of voting defeats in the Stortinget in recent years under various governments, the governments of which Stoltenberg was a member top the statistics. So here, Stoltenberg speaks with considerable experience.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e257	It turns out that there is now full agreement in this room that SIVA should play a central role. The government has mentioned this in its proposition with very strong wording. The opposition has indicated in the debate and in proposals that they also believe that SIVA should play a central role. We actually have the possibility of a win-win situation. The SIVA, with its competence in the regions, has developed an incubator model that is very interesting to continue for IT Fornebu Technoport at Fornebu. We know from investigations into these different research parks, etc. in the regions where SIVA is a partner, that what has been missing is the private bit. Those who are most engaged in these parks are municipalities, county municipalities, public energy plants, etc., but all reports say that the private element and the innovative power that the private can be lack in this interaction. SIVA's Director Kjelstad is aware of this. Here, then, the government now has room for manoeuvre and opportunities to look at this – very interestingly, we believe in the Progress Party, and I hope that you will come up with good solutions. But the government's proposition also says that this should be clear as soon as possible and within eight weeks, and then the government has to pick out which player it wants to be in the process of Fornebu, governing representatives, etc., so it's no more than time and the way. So my question to the Prime Minister is: will you evaluate the role of SIVA based on what you can add to the regions by getting to such an interaction and a win-win situation, as I described it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e265	It is true, as the representative Hedstrøm points out, that in the case of the incubator business in particular, the Government also commented in its proposition – and I refer to pages 9 and 20 – on the role of SIVA, and that SIVA should be able to play an important role here. On page 20, which also corresponds well to what is on page 9 of the proposition, it is called. the following: ‘In the concept of both NF and ITF, SIVA and SND will be natural partners, without a pre-determined position on issues concerning the State’s involvement in the incubator.’ Of course, this is what we are standing by. And the proposal that has today been proposed to the Government, we will also include in the further work on how we organise the state's involvement in the IT centre at Fornebu. But proposal II in the vote went further than that, because it says: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate the SIVA to become the body’ — in a specific form — ‘regarding the interests of the State in the IT and knowledge centre’. This rests on some premises in the committee position, which are far more extensive than the proposition here prescribed. But it's clear that we want to include that proposal, if it's transmitted, in the further work when we're going to specify the state's involvement in the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. But then we will be able to subject it to the usual and, I would say, sound assessment and proceedings in the government apparatus and deal with it in such a way as I think makes sense in the sharing of responsibilities between depositing and government. But with regard to the role of SIVA in the incubator business, I would like to confirm to the representative Hedstrøm that there we have intended to play a significant role in SIVA.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e282	It is often the case that a debate makes the matter clearer and clearer. After listening to today's debate, I'm not sure, and not least about this issue of SIVA's participation. I noticed that Jens Stoltenberg made this issue almost a matter of which state council would manage the area. But both he in the change of line and representatives of the majority earlier today have given the impression that the reality of what the majority believes is in place anyway, so that there is no great point in bringing the matter to voting. But when we listen to the Prime Minister, he has a very free relationship with these remarks. He says that this he will evaluate. It is not that both the majority and the Prime Minister may be right at the same time. It is quite clear that you cannot say that everything should be done, as it says in the position, if at the same time you are to act as the Prime Minister now says. So my question, to make this clear to me too, is this: is it that the Prime Minister feels free from what is in the position on pages 8 and 9, where SIVA is described, where there are useful recordings, but where he otherwise reserves the right to make an independent assessment? And question No. 2 is: if it is that the Prime Minister does not feel free from these remarks, but feels bound by them, what has he won by not getting proposal II for voting?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e293	To take the last one first: what has been won, if this proposal is sent without a vote of reality rather than being adopted, is that we get a clearer relationship in the division of responsibilities between government and enlargement. I think any party that has thoughts of coming into government later should be satisfied with that, for a decision of proposal II in today's position would, in my opinion, have meant that the Storting went into areas naturally attached to the Government. It's in itself important, because it has to do with power distribution and responsibilities between government and greatness. So everyone with experience from this house knows that there is a clear difference between decisions in Stortinget and comments, which Jan Petersen was about to make, and also proposals that are sent without a vote of reality. A decision is, as you know, constitutionally binding on a government. They're not, but they're political leaders. As you know, the Storting has not taken a position of reality. But it is clear that proposals that are being submitted are also political signals that the Government takes into account in its further work. We'll do that. We will also seriously consider the content of the proposal. Should there be any intention to convert a proposal from a proposal for a decision to a transmission proposal, everyone is aware that there is a constitutional difference between that type of proposal as to how it must then be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e300	I fully agree with the Prime Minister that there is a clearer relationship between magnification and the government that proposal II is turned into a transmission proposal. But what's the difference between what was the world of reality when we met here this morning, and what eventually became it? Jens Stoltenberg said this in his post: ‘When a majority in the UK is behind a transmission proposal, it at the same time expresses the will of the Storting. It is still the view of the majority of the population that SIVA should have a central role, and I assume that the Government will follow this up in the further work.» The question then becomes the same as Jan Petersen asked: Is it such that the government feels free to choose which state authority to take care of this, as Bondevik suggested? This case has a history. It has been dragged into the Storting seven times by a large number from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. It is not the government that has had the driving role in this case. What assurances have Bondevik received during this debate – it may not only take one week, but maybe two-three-four, and if the government comes back with a proposal for a different handling than the majority of the population has been involved, are we resuming the spectre? I perceive that the Prime Minister has protested against coercion, but has submitted to voluntary coercion in this matter. It's a concept we know from the treatment of people with drug problems. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e316	I think I dare say with my attitude to alcohol and other drugs that I am probably among the last ones who need coercion in the care to which Kristin Halvorsen referred. When it came to Stoltenberg's wording that Kristin Halvorsen referred to, that SIVA should have a central role, yes, the government itself has expressed it in the proposition. It is neither under voluntary coercion nor any other expression that one should use, that the Government will give SIVA such a role. We've explained that on page 9 and on page 20 of the proposition. However, point II of the proposal for a decision went further than that. It was prescribed – and rested on quite detailed comments at the front of the suspension – that SIVA should be the government's tool at the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. It is not that the government protests against coercion, but voluntarily does all that the coercion would entail. A proposal that is submitted shall be carefully assessed by a government, as always, and so has always been done by all governments. It also means that we will carefully assess the role of SIVA and how we can fit into the role of SIVA in an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. A proposal that has not been adopted is – as I have said before – not constitutionally binding on the Government, but it is a political signal that we naturally have obligations to assess properly. However, the Government must have the right to sound procedures and an assessment of how the role of SIVA should be developed and brought into line with any other governmental bodies that we may be using, for example. SND, as indicated in the proposition in the context of the development of the Fornebu centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e327	There may be reason to be glad that the Prime Minister now tells Stortinget that they will implement the Storting's choice of partners. It is good to record that we have a Prime Minister who is taking a defeat so adult, and we look forward to the further work on this matter in cooperation with the Government. There is also reason to be pleased that the Prime Minister states that SIVA should have a central role as an actor in the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. And there is no particular doubt that the Prime Minister and the rest of the Government know very well what the majority in Stortinget means in that context. I expect that the Prime Minister will then also be pleased to see that the intentions of the decision that is now being transmitted to the Government are followed up. Otherwise, I must be allowed to say that you are the government councils themselves who have asked questions about whether we are now moving the responsibility for IT Fornebu and the knowledge centre out there from one department to another, from one government council to another, more precisely: from government council Sponheim to state council Enoxsen. We certainly haven't. There is nothing in the proposal that goes in that direction, but we have a strong desire that we should have a close link between the local, regional, central and international, and there is a good foundation for the SIVA and the SIVA board of directors.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e334	That a prime minister and a government should implement the decision of the Storting – yes, it should be lacking. If the Prime Minister didn't have to make it clear that he can't, and took the consequences of it. But this has, as you know, both the representative Opseth, the representative Stoltenberg and others very good experience. For there have been several such decisions which were not in accordance with proposals also by their government. Then Opseth comes back to the question that the point here was not to move responsibility from one department to another. As I said, the majority's comments and proposal II go far beyond the question of just moving it from one department to another. Well, it confirmed Opseth indirectly now. But I do not actually get this to vote with any of the Labour Party's main speakers in this case, namely Torstein Rudihagen, said in an interview in the Address Paper on March 3 as the reason why the majority proposed proposal II in the vote. His reasons for this are as follows: "We no longer trust Sponheim in this matter." That was what was supposed to be the reason for this proposal, and it does not, of course, harmonize with what Mr Opseth said now and as the representative Mr Stoltenberg has said earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e345	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e348	The more I have listened to the debate, not least between the Prime Minister and various challengers from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, I have a feeling that this is gradually developing into a private fight that I am not sure if we others are invited to participate in. But I will still try to make some contributions. What is quite clear is that the Prime Minister and representatives of the two parties simply do not agree. And that means that if this debate goes out in the way that I now think it will go out, that is, with the decisions that we know will be taken, yes, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party have, in fact, accepted a clear defeat on the issue of the role of SIVA. It is that the setting describes very clearly what SIVA should do. Yes, it concludes that ‘SIVA becomes the State’s representative both in the vision company and the property company’. It's quite obvious, when we heard from Stoltenberg, who thought that there was only a question of distribution between state councils, when we heard Hedstrom this morning, and when we heard Opseth right now, that the majority put a lot more into these remarks than the Prime Minister does. The Prime Minister, and very rightly, feels free from these remarks, while Opseth was reasonably clear on the threat of what would happen if the Government nevertheless did not follow up this remark. It is true, as many have observed so far in the debate, that we have dealt with the matter nine times, and I feel reasonably confident that we will see a tenth time when it comes to dealing with that matter. Because if it is that the Prime Minister, having now said that he feels free from the comments, nevertheless the point-by-point will follow them – yes, he has not achieved much more than a short-term gain by not getting a vote over II in the case. What we see here, therefore, is a very clear disagreement that develops, which may not come to its origin in this meeting, but where the actors are trying to hide the whole thing with a little bit of fog and here. But there is no particular doubt that the majority's combatants, especially Hedstrøm and Rudihagen, are speeding up, and now lie like skin traps, like polar bear skins, in front of the pulpit here. It is not the two parties that have won this debate. As far as the substance of the matter itself is concerned, I have to say that it has remained on the right hand side well. We have described in our proposal for a decision what the role-sharing should be like, we have listened to a number of descriptions of how the so-called new economy is turning us in, but we can well see that most of these assessments are quite half-destroyed. One of the reasons why I'm sure they're pretty half-disgusted is that you can't have avoided, on the part of the majority, noticing that a large part of the IT industry has just expressed itself clearly in disagreement with the concept that the majority of people here put up. I therefore believe that further studies of the theme will be highly recommended. I have noticed that it has been said very early in this process, not least has Carl I. Hagen suggested that what the government has said in the newspapers in the days before, is to consider as an application to get off, which he would immediately agree. I note that the courage did not go all the way to the big room, and that now one has been willing to see through the fingers that the Prime Minister clearly interprets itself away from what the majority of people have been trying very hard to create during the day. Up like a lion and down like a skin trap!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e363	I hear both inside and outside this hall that representatives of the majority are hammering in that this matter is now being dealt with in the Stortinge for the ninth time. There is a picture that the reason for this extensive delinquency treatment is that the government – and this council of states in particular – has repeatedly tried to change and train the case. These are serious claims, and I ask for understanding that I will not leave these statements undisputed. I do not want the myth to be allowed to celebrate that when Lars Sponheim was Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, he was a government council without respect for the Stortinget and its decisions. It is not the government that has agreed that the Storting should deal with this case nine times. First, the government’s plan was to put the plans for an IT and knowledge centre in a regional perspective. We did so in May 1998, in St. gemeld. No 38 for 1997-98. Then we followed up with a concrete outline of how the IT centre could be established, in a new growth message in November of the same year. The other seven cases were dealt with at the initiative of the majority. Without exception, a majority of this increase – usually the Labour Party and the Advance Party – has used these opportunities to reverse the government's scope of action in further work on the matter. And without exception, these cuts have made the government's remaining work more and more similar to the answer IT Fornebu has always represented. Nevertheless, there has always been a certain room for action again for the Government. This space for action has a government both the right and the obligation to use. In this case, we have used it in line with our ideals for political crafts, namely: that, through open debate, the best solutions are created to ensure that political decisions are also based on a technical foundation that private actors are brought in, it shall be based on fair competition: This is something other than ‘rematch’ and ‘tremation’. The decision was taken as late as 2 November 1999 on what the Government was to focus on in the negotiations with the two remaining stakeholders. Even within this scarce space of action, it is the government's factual assessment that it would be right to choose Network Fornebu as the state's partner. The Government has complied with the Storting’s wish to present each detail in the agreements with the two stakeholders and has given assessments thereof. It is therefore surprising that the Government will now be criticised for the fact that we do not ‘consider and discuss the dramatic transformations and industrial challenges of the IT revolution’, precisely in this proposition. We have done so in the past in this case and in other matters for Stortinget. The notification of electronic commerce and business activities can be such an example. But I'd like to say something about the Fornebu case and the need for an innovative Norway as well. When considering the Fornebu Centre as one of several contributors to meeting the challenges we face, it is essential not to assume that the rest of Norway looks like Fornebu is doing right now. While Fornebu is mostly brackish, it grows very well elsewhere in the country. How much money the state spends on Fornebu, and what the state spends on this money, must be in an assessment of other needs in the country. In the setting, the Workers' Party and the Progress Party write: ‘The majority will therefore stress the seriousness of Norway’s failure to create ring-effects from Telenor and to produce ICT companies of international format. This means that Norway lacks its own production and is essentially dependent on importing ICT services from other countries.’ I agree that we need to get even more around our leading IT company, Telenor. Here, the Fornebu Center will be important. However, it is not true that Norway does not have the power to create ring-effects from Telenor at all, that we do not have ICT companies of international format, or that we do not have our own production. Nera, world leader in parts of satellite communications and with a turnover of nearly DKK 3 billion, is a ringing effect of Telenor. Opera Software, a manufacturer of perhaps the world's best web browser, is a ringing effect of Telenor. According to the organisation ICT-Norway, the growth rate in Norwegian software – multimedia and Internet industry is now 43 pst. There are no second-class products available to these companies. It was a Norwegian company, IntraNet Systems, which won Microsoft’s approval of the best Internet application in 1998. And among 850 nominees, Norwegian ID Comnet ran off with the first prize in Lotus' international competition, Lotusphere 99. In the nomination, the majority also refers to an OECD report published in October 1999 as an indication that ‘Norway is far behind most OECD countries both in terms of new business activities in IT or in terms of the use of IT’. Even fresh OECD reports are now based on statistics that are some years old. But even for a few years ago, when we had a labor party government, the picture wasn't as black as the committee figures draw in the setting. If we look at today's situation, there are clear indications that we are now on the right track. The latest international comparison is based on figures from 1998 and 1999 and thus includes the working time of the central government. It places us as the fourth leading IT nation in the world. The IT industry also shows that things are moving faster now. The ICT-Norway Secretary-General, Per Morten Hoff, says that ‘there has been more in IT policy in the last two years than in the previous ten’. I choose to believe that everyone involved in the Fornebu debate has a sincere desire that we take the right Norwegian grips in the new information society. However, different perceptions of the IT-Norway situation clearly lead to different conclusions on the level of State intervention in an IT-Fornebu. In my opinion, state involvement in Fornebu must be weighed against alternative use in other IT initiatives. Opera Software is one of our most exciting IT companies. They're valued at several hundred million dollars, but they've only received 1.5 million dollars. kr in public support. The company of comets Fast Search and Transfer, as I know, has not received one public kroner. Success, on the other hand, is the result of long-term research at NTNU and SINTEF in Trondheim. Of course, only a few of the IT companies set up could be such successes. However, the use of government money at Fornebu has to be proportionate to other instruments in the Norwegian information society. I have to say that I doubt that the majority's extra bet on Fornebu could yield a return greater than the kind of support or the kind of research effort that the Opera and Fast examples represent. The majority have recently shown the Swedish success in Kista and the Finnish in Oulu as an example of what you can do if you just bet big enough. Yes, I agree that we should be inspired by this. Nor should we view this as a threat, but as a force for the Nordic countries as the world's leading IT region. However, both the Swedish Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Finnish Ministry of Economic Affairs state involvement in extensive housing was an unknown problem in setting up these centres. Nor is it true that these are established while we in Norway have discussed fornebu back and forth. Both Kista and Oulu have been developing since the early 1980s. It is also worth noting that it is established with a different and clearer role-sharing between country and private than is now envisaged for the Fornebu Centre. In the state budget for this year, the Government proposed to grant 260 million. kr in the share capital of the Fornebu Centre. It was made clear that ownership was to be managed by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. This was decided by Stortinget without any comments. But then came the position of the nutrition committee, where it was proposed that SIVA should manage this ownership. At the same time, the administration of SIVA has concluded an agreement of intent with IT-Fornebu. The purpose is to invest the state's holdings in research parks, knowledge parks and the like into a new company where private shareholders linked to IT Fornebu have a majority. Point 6.2 of the Agreement provides that the Grand Duchy, i.e. not the Government, decides that SIVA shall manage the State’s holdings in Fornebu and that the 260 million. Allowances are transferred to SIVA. This has been a very special situation. On the one hand — from the majority of the population — it has been proposed to set aside the Government’s right to organise its activities. On the other hand, the administration of a State undertaking has concluded an agreement laying down the conditions for certain decisions in the Stortinget. This happens without the government having assessed the matter or investigating it. These are procedures that I would have hurt to accept. I am therefore pleased that the majority has converted the proposal into a transmission proposal. As a result, the treatment has entered a more sound track. Many people have asked me why I have found myself in a matter as much as this. I have to answer that briefly in the end. It's because the process that the Government has implemented has changed the Fornebu case. The IT fornebu to which the majority will give the assignment has improved significantly. This is due not least to the merger with Fornebu Technoport, which got on the track in the competition that the Government was able to achieve. The professional anchoring of the Spøtvoll Committee has also ensured a freer and more independent position for the educational and research activities at Fornebu. And through the open debate that has been conducted, everyone can see how the different actors act. None of this was, of course, before the government change in 1997. While the comprehensive plans of the Norwegian Investor Forum and Fred. The oil was only sacrificed five sentences in the long-term programme of the Jagland government, and six meetings were held in 1996-97 with the same grouping at the level of the Council of State in the responsible department. Only a few people know what happened at those meetings. But in that process of central government, everything has been visible to everyone. I'm very pleased with that. These overall considerations balance some of the defeats we have had to accept. At least a little bit on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e448	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e452	It was good to hear that the Minister of Industry chose a policy approach to this matter, because it was necessary. It's probably true that State Council Sponheim says it's not completely black. But in relation to the starting point that we had some years ago, with actually one of the world's best infrastructures and with almost the lowest telecommunications prices around the world, we've got a little lag behind when it comes to competition within ICT business, and we see that it can bet and it can develop around us. But we're still among the most advanced users, and that's exactly what makes it interesting for foreign environments to come and establish themselves and get involved here in Norway. This is also why there is a possibility of attracting foreign competence and entrepreneurial activity at Fornebu. That's why it's very urgent to get to this project while we still have this possibility. In the discussion about who owes it for taking so long, State Council Sponheim claims that there may be a large majority of people, who have always found new ways to tighten up. I have to remind Sponheim that, in fact, before the message he referred to, about IT competence in a regional perspective, Stortinget had said a good deal about setting up the centre on Fornebu, in conjunction with the state budget setting for 1998. Had it been followed up, one was in the goal for the longest. Now both the Prime Minister and the State Council have signalled that they accept the defeat in the choice of the actor. My question is: does Sponheim do it based on what he does, among other things. has said in the TV2 news on February 7, that IT Fornebu Technoport is such an unclear company to enter into that we can risk running the country into a small version of the new Gardermoen, as the situation is today? Can Sponheim, with such an opinion, live by the decision of the great majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e461	I do not share the view that the representative here expressed that we have now, over the last few years, been slowing down somewhat. On the contrary, the last ranking, in so far as it can be used between nations, shows that we are very high – fortunately – together with our Nordic neighbouring countries, and that gives us fighting opportunities in the future. I think it's so crucial to get there, because there's been a black and white debate that nothing has happened in Norway because the airport at Fornebu hasn't got any other activity yet. But in the meantime, a lot has happened in Norway, and then we're going to hope that what's going to happen at Fornebu comes in and can complete an already good picture. That's where I think we agree. So the representative suggests that, in the light of the decisions taken in connection with the deliberation of our communication on regional IT development, we could start at Fornebu. It does not quite match what has been said here earlier today. Among other things, the rapporteur has given me – to my great surprise – praise for helping to get an open competition on this, which took time. When I arrived today and saw that there was a new construction work on the outside, I thought that it was the gentlemen Hedstrøm and Opseth who had made a mess of Sponheim, and then I came into the hall and got praise for having helped to extend the process in a way that has contributed constructively. I particularly appreciate that. But it was that much of this was absolutely necessary to produce the quality that is in these projects. It's my government's perception when we've presented two alternatives, that both options are feasible. The government selected one. It looks like the population picks the other one. And there's more uncertainty about the option that the population now wants to go for, it shows, among other things. this so-called due diligence review. But I am determined that we will be able to get to a good IT centre on that basis as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e468	The President would just like to point out that at the beginning of the meeting today, the President made particular attention to the fact that it was for ski facilities this construction work was supposed to be. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e471	I am pleased that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade has now addressed industrial policy in his speech; that is what a Minister of Industry should do first and foremost. He was in Oulu. Yes, the fins were in a difficult situation at the end of the 1980s. The traditional industries went badly, and they had to find something new. They came up with a new idea and managed to develop it primarily through Nokia. The Swedish have Kista outside Stockholm, and we saw how we got out badly in the Telenor-Telia debate, because the Swedish media wrote that Sweden has an environment, Norway has only one vision. But we have our options at Fornebu, and there are three elements that need to be in place. Firstly, there must be an environment in which international companies are to be willing to move their development and research departments there. And we have Telenor built up there, and then we'll get an environment. In addition, we also need the framework conditions, and then I know that the government is working on option taxation and property taxes. I also know that people from the department of Sponheim have made certain statements on that. The third thing that makes us attractive to Siscot, Hewlett Packard, Compaq and all these big international American companies to establish themselves here is that the Nordic region is two years ahead of the rest of Europe in terms of being advanced users of information and communication technologies and the Internet. So my question to the Council of State is, how far has it come in the field of industrial policy by doing something about option taxation and wealth taxes to get us to do this, and not just to confuse traditional industry, to shut it down or move it out of the country, or to move out of the few businesses we have in the high-tech areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e478	Let me first say that we should not view the Finnish example as a problem for Norway, but, as I said in my post, as an inspiration. And then I think we're going to have the ability to enjoy a neighbor who, at the time Nokia grew up, actually needed a company and a source of income that that Nokia represents. But it also shows the dynamics in a country when you need to get a new basis for value creation, what capacity you have to do it. People who need food have the ability to search for food. I think we should be happy about that. I don't think it's such a big problem. This has been said in the past, including: from the representative Jagland, that we invented a lot of GSM technology, while others did shop on the basis of it. That's probably true, at least in the case of the so-called hardware, the equipment. But we see in Norway how many interesting environments are emerging that create the software needed to exploit this technologist and new Internet technologies, not least when it comes to mobile phones. And this is a huge growth area, perhaps more than making equipment, which we have the best assumptions -- as much and perhaps more than our Nordic neighbours -- to succeed. With regard to the issue of general framework conditions, which is so crucial for exactly this type of enterprise – I fully agree with – and which is about attracting people who are quite mobile across national borders, and where it is necessary that we are internationally competitive, the Government is working to reintroduce competitive option rules. It has been announced by the Minister of Finance during the spring session. And I think that when the representative Hedstrom is working for this, it's probably different from the ones he's been in majority with today that he has to rely on – at least as the position has been in the past when dealing with this. The Prime Minister has also announced that he will critically assess the impact of the wealth tax on business start-ups in Norway and will come back with an assessment of this when the 2001 government budget is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e485	There's always something heroic about knights fighting against windmills. And so the Minister of Industry has also done a heroic job in the fight against the windmills that have suffocated well in the Storting with content talk about paradigm change, new worldview, new knowledge economy and I don't know what. But there's one thing that surprises me anyway. The Minister of Economic Affairs spoke of ‘the defeats we have had to accept’. It is, then, that a government itself chooses which defeat it accepts? There is no defeat any government must accept. And when you've watched today's relatively dull show, where it turned out that it was enough that a newspaper suggested that there might be a cabinet question to get the strange alliance between the Progress Party and the Workers' Party to fall to the ground, then it's nearby to ask the Minister of Industry what he thinks when he thinks back about what happened last year in Stortinget. If the Government had remained at its principal position, which the Right has stood at all times and still stands on, and had not chosen to accept a defeat, does not the Minister of Industry see it as presumptuously likely that that alliance had already broken down at that time, and had it not been for the benefit of both the Kingdom of Norway, the Government and the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e497	Let me first give full support to the introduction that the representative of Wohnung had on his line, namely, that a lot of new words are used here about the so-called new economy. But it's basically the old realities it's all about, too, putting together inputs to create values that give us an added value towards a market, and that might be a little bit different from what we've traditionally been used to thinking about. But I agree, it's possible to talk about this with words that we're traditionally more familiar with than paradigm shifts and this that borders more on the theological world for me. With regard to the question of defeat and maneuvering rooms, it is clear that many history seminars can be held on what could have been done differently and how things could have been assessed differently, etc. How would you have reacted if the government had been hard on it at an earlier time? I don't think it's useful to speculate about it. The government chose in June, after we had conducted an open competition, to go ahead with three finalists and was aware that this was going back to the Stortinget, and that the Stortinget could then do a different priority than the government offered. That was the government's understanding when it happened. And that's what's happening today, there's nothing more dramatic about it than that. Now it was so that of the three went together. And both of the two that are now left at the end are of such quality that the government in its proposition believes that both are able to carry out this project as we want. What I have to say is important is that in today's proposal for a decision, II has been converted into a transmission proposal, because such a decision would be to intervene dramatically in what is the responsibility of a government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e508	Like the government council, Sponheim, I was also amazed that you had set up a store next to the Storting today when I arrived. But then I realized that it's not hanging that should be drowned – isn't that what it's called? That might have been the relationship. It's interesting when two state councils have explained how this is to be understood. None of the state councils have, as far as I can see, argued with one positive word about what will be the decision of the Storting later today. So both state councils have argued why IT should not really be chosen fornebu Technoport and why – after all – the option recommended by the government would be preferable. It's interesting in itself also when you hear the use of language. State Council Sponheim now used the concept of "lowlag" that the Government had to endure. It is the government itself that decides which defeat you might have to endure. And if that's really the way I understood both the Davøy Council and the Sponheim Council, you really don't have anything good to say about the project you're being forced to accept here. It's quite eye-catching. I think the review Sponheim now had of the IT development in Norway in recent years is correct. And I think there's a lot of reasons for that. I also think there are many reasons to say that it is in very sharp contrast to what the Storting is about to adopt. I don't think it's like people get a lot more creative if you drink coffee together during the breaks. I don't think that's how it's possible for the state to say that here we're going to build a Silicon Valley with 260 million dollars at first, and later with maybe more. I think it's absolutely right that the companies that want to apply together apply together. And I think that's what's completely fundamentally crazy about the idea of the whole IT fornebu, that here the state is going to try to dictate or facilitate a scheme that might not come at all. And that's what's interesting about the IT development in Norway, like in a lot of other countries, that creative people actually get to things, regardless of the state trying to give peace here. Olsen an attractive property. What I want the Council of State to confirm is that there is no right of return in that agreement, that there is no right of right after today's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e523	The representative of Djupedal draws me far when he says that I do not have a positive word to say about the actor who is being elected today. I actually have a lot to say about IT Fornebu Technoport's project and work to work out something they believe in. I have also stated that the Government in its proposition has clearly stated that there is a project that the Government can present to the Stortinget for a decision The Stortinget can take. We have also done well to ensure that this is a project that can be accepted, even if we have considered it factually – also on the basis of the technical advice we have, both the independent professionals in the negotiating committee and a reference group of civil servants – that the second option was a better option. It is also true that when the Storting selects the option they choose today, it is still somewhat unclear how large it will be, because a large part of the area has to be purchased in the market from the Municipality of Oslo, and there is a process that has not yet been completed. But that's what we're going to make sure that it's now going to work on further in the future. Of course, it is my clear intention that there should not be a need for the Storting – at least in a build-up phase – to get more involved in decisions on this issue. Otherwise, I share many of the views about IT development and the whole thing that the representative here expresses, the need to take into account the environment and perhaps mainly of living places where competent people want to live, as we feel that the IT environment in South Africa is attractive, and many other places in the country. With regard to the future use of the land out there if it's not going to be the way the stakeholders are concerned about, I would like to stress that here the regulatory plan is based on the fact that there are IT feeds related to the use of the land, and it also binds up the future use of these land.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e534	It is a good commitment for the further work that the Minister of Industry also takes note of the decision that the Stortinget will take today. That the Minister of Industry is not particularly pleased with that decision, it was clear, not so much through what he said, but through what he did not say, because the Minister of Industry has largely chosen to talk about what had happened in the IT field in recent years. It is good that a lot of things have happened within the IT area, and one can ask questions about who has the era for it. It is also possible to ask questions about whether this has happened because of the government's policy or because of the government's policy. I'm pretty sure it's as much the last as the first. However, the same positive way of describing developments in the IT sector in Norway, there is no doubt that we have fewer innovative activities and are producing fewer new products than the average in Europe. We all have to take that seriously, because that's what we're going to live on in the future. Then I'd like to ask the Minister of Industry if it's such a way that someone really wants to get involved and create an environment on Fornebu that becomes the innovative environment that we need to move on. We have to bet on the engine we have in the field of information technology, Telenor, and one has to be able to build up around that engine. Will the Council of States now do everything it can to participate in that direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e544	I think that we have as a problem, among other things. to walk up and down this pulpit, not to use the pulpit to fight about who has contributed the most to the exciting business start-ups we have received in this area, but must acknowledge that we must give honor and much of the credit to the entrepreneurs, innovators and researchers who have actually done the job. I think in all modesty I have to say that Opseth and I are good enough to go cock fights in this pulpit and other places, but we need the many entrepreneurs out there to create the workplaces and the businesses we need, that's the ones that stand for business start-ups. Then we have to try to make sure that we have a policy and a framework that allows all of these with the potential and ability to create new businesses to do so. It is important, and it has not least to do with general framework conditions. I think the fact that the government that Opseth put in, proposed to remove the entire option scheme, became a disability for a period of these new start-ups that could come to Norway, because it is so important for the new companies that are unable to pay a competitive wage but provide an opportunity to participate in the increase in value that is in the company. Then I agree – even if I want to put my words differently – when the representative Opseth here says that the Fornebu Centre is going to be what we need to move on. I think in all modesty we have to say that there has to be one of the important contributions we need to move on, because there is a lot of excitement going on around Norway. It happens in the Gaustadbeck valley and in Kjeller at Oslo, it happens in Halden, which has grown up to be one of the most exciting IT environments we have here in the country, where it has grown up more than a thousand IT workplaces in the quiet without political attention at all from here, they have grown up on the basis of a small research environment linked to the nuclear reactor down there, etc., etc. It is all these environments in sum that must help to give what the country needs, and not just the exploitation of a land area in Bærum.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e559	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e564	Regardless of Sponheim's explanation needs, the 9th time the Stortinget has set up an international knowledge and IT centre at Fornebu for treatment, a centre to bring together national and international researchers and investors, thus ensuring increased value creation from and to Norway. Of course, as the head of government and government do, one can turn the matter upside down and argue that the government is being instructed, instead of pointing to the fact that there had probably been fewer treatment rounds here in this room about the executive body as the government is, had followed up the will of the Storting. The big-time attitude has been clear all along. Where the Government has made the matter of Fornebu a matter of property speculation, the majority of the population has always stressed the industrial policy side, where knowledge, development and research are central. But this must happen with investors who want to bet on the ideas, knowing that the work on commercialising research results takes time. And we also know that with the food policy instruments we have today, it's just capital that's missing when you're going over the first trick in innovation. This shows, among other things: studies by SINTEF, which are also included in the majority voting. In countries with which we otherwise like to compare, generosity towards knowledge-intensive industries and businesses is evident. According to the OECD in Norway, the share of value creation from knowledge-intensive industries is only 35 pst, while the OECD average is 50 pst. Norway is one of the few countries where traditional industry has been a key indicator of economic growth. Even when we look at the price and quality of industrial products, Norway scores low. It means in plain text that in the traditional industry we don't manage to develop and use knowledge, we become volume producers, not quality producers. But at the same time, we are in the time that comes, completely dependent on our companies developing knowledge in different forms, which in turn makes us strengthen quality and value creation. This is why one of the most important tasks that politicians can do in business policy is to stimulate innovation and knowledge development. And let me say: the IT industry itself, as one of the most internationally oriented industries we have, is a good example of export and internationalisation providing opportunities for employment in Norway. Norwegian IT companies claim well in areas such as maritime surveillance and communication, environmental monitoring and telecommunications, and not surprisingly is the maritime industry cluster in the front. But behind this development lies many years of targeted work and skills development, both in enterprises and in research institutions. The concept and the actor chosen by the majority of Storting have every chance of success. They're internationally oriented, they've got people with ideas that have a lot of experience in betting new, that's actually worked out, and they're now linked to regions and districts in an interaction. In the middle of it is our distinguished telecommunications company, Telenor, and SINTEF, who have a lot of experience in testing research ideas in practical ways and also have good results, and the research parks that are close to our university environments. The fact that some enterprises and educational institutions have different views about this, both in terms of concept and in terms of actors, is quite natural. No one likes competition, but it's gone too far. No actor, whether enterprise or educational institution, can live in complete isolation any longer. The situation today has had a difficult start. We've lost some time, but hopefully the end of today is that the starting signal can be given. We need to meet up with the business policy scene shifts open and searching. The size has just dealt with the research message and turned to the sound of a completely different offensive effort in this area, even though the Government did not fully follow us. But as few as we are here in the country, it will be our ability to see together new opportunities and our ability to act powerfully across traditional industry divisions and social sectors that will join in and decide whether we will succeed in the global marketplace of the future. That's what the majority of the Storting wanted with a business offensive, which hopefully now can get out of the deadlock and get full should.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e585	The government presented its views on the possibilities and consequences of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu in St.meld. No 38 for 1997-98. This message was submitted only five months after the Storting had favoured the proposal to establish such a centre on Fornebu. There was already a lack of IT skills at the time, and the competence was largely concentrated on central strokes, especially Oslo and Akershus. The Communication describes a number of IT centres and environments that are developing around the country. The government stressed the importance of interaction between different environments. Such an approach was also consistent with the suspension in the context of the 1997 district and regional notification process. There, the Stortinget Government asked the Government to provide an action plan to facilitate the development of IT skills across the country. Furthermore, the majority of the Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs, during the examination of the 1998 State Budget, expressed the view that the development of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu should not be at the expense of businesses and educational institutions in the country. The government’s starting point has always been that an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu can act as a centralist in the country’s IT competence and IT-related research and development. The goal must now be to create a win-win situation for as much of the country as possible. The government believes that this can be achieved by ensuring good, committed and long-term links between the Fornebu Centre and other national environments. There is no hiding that the larger the center becomes, the more centralizing it may work. It has been difficult to distinguish and rank the two stakeholders concerned on the basis of their regional interaction plans, as expressed in the offers. This also applies to plans for the Centre’s connection to rural environments. I have to admit that the ambitions in relation to this were somewhat disappointing in the beginning. That is why we have also said that it is necessary for the selected stakeholder to further develop the regional dimension of the Centre. Increasingly efficient use of IT can trigger major development potential in all parts of the country, both through the development of new technology-based industries and through the renewal of existing businesses. The government is very busy facilitating this potential. I believe it is a condition that a centre in Fornebu does not seize a disproportionate share of the national competence and resources in the IT field. At the same time, it is the government's clear intention that a centre in Fornebu should have sufficient resources to become an important driver nationally and internationally. This may be a difficult balance. In its assessment, the Government has been concerned that the State must ensure the possibility of having a close and active follow-up to the company, so that the actors involved further develop the regional dimension of the Centre. It is against this background that the government has proposed that the company Network Fornebu AS become the state's private partner at Fornebu. In St. pp. No 35 places the Government at the heart of ensuring the necessary control of the State by means of this agreement through policy-making bodies in the Centre. This agreement thus provides for a better opportunity for the State to pursue national, regional and other social interests. The government has in St. pp. No 35 called for the SIVA to be given a role in establishing and operating an incubator unit at the Fornebu Centre, in cooperation with private and other public actors. The background to this proposal is SIVA’s competence in the development of innovation environments and the role it has played in developing networks between such environments around the country. The government believes that SIVA could play an important role in creating binding, long-term links between Fornebu and regional environments. The positive development of SIVA has been in recent years, the Government intends to continue. In recent years, SIVA has also had some involvement in key areas. However, I have been very concerned that this should not weaken the district profile of SIVA. Among other things, the Ministry’s letter of allocation to SIVA for the current year underlines the objective of SIVA’s investment in central areas as a smaller proportion of the company’s total property portfolio. If SIVA were also to become the country’s property operator on Fornebu, this would mean a long step in the opposite direction. At the same time, such a role for SIVA is also not necessary in order to realise a government property exposure in the Fornebu Centre. I am therefore pleased that II in the nomination has been converted into a transmission proposal, so that the Government has the necessary opportunity to make assessments of how the state can best organise its involvement in Fornebu in a way that also allows the SIVA to contribute to the best possible development, especially in a regional perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e604	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e607	Councilman Enoksen said a lot about SIVA. Now the municipal minister has to help us clean up. Is it the case that the Minister of State disagrees with his own Secretary of State and the Secretary of State says of the Memorandum of Understanding between IT Fornebu Technoport and SIVA? There have been allegations that SIVA has gone behind the backs of the Minister of Industry and the Government. I have to ask: is it so that the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Minister of Municipalities have gone behind the Minister of Industry? Is it so that the Government has an internal dispute about the role of SIVA in this? The reason why I'm asking is that there's a lot of different notions about that. I have previously referred to a letter from SIVA's board of directors to the Ministry of Local Affairs, where it was just shown that it was the Ministry of Local Affairs who asked SIVA to open negotiations with the two stakeholders, and they negotiated an agreement of intent with the one. In addition, former Secretary of State Per N. Hagen that the government knew about the SIVA agreement, and that he supported the agreement between IT Fornebu and the state company. At the same time, he says that the government has known about the agreements over a long period of time. In fact, according to the Address Paper – someone has quoted from the earlier today – that Sponheim also favoured this agreement for a period of time, if that is right, because Sponheim had been at a meeting in Trondheim on 18 May, and the Council of State came, both in the meeting and in the press, with very positive statements about the plans that were presented about the role of SIVA in Fornebu. In other words, the Council of State of the Enox has to help us clarify the confusion here.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e616	I'll try. There is no internal dispute in the Government on the role of SIVA. Nor has the Ministry of Local Affairs asked SIVA to start negotiations with any actor. On 23 April last year, a letter from the Ministry of Local Affairs to the SIVA asked SIVA to provide input on questions related to the role that SIVA could play in the development of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu. Those recordings were returned to the Ministry of Local Affairs on 5 May. After the board of SIVA had dealt with this on 3 May, a comprehensive document was sent back to the Ministry of Local Affairs with proposals on how to play a role in relation to the development of Fornebu. In this respect, SIVA proposed, inter alia: that the SIVA was to safeguard its ownership interests and that SIVA also wanted to contribute to the building of strong innovation environments with regional and international networks in cooperation with private interests. The next information that the Ministry of Local Affairs received from SIVA – I must also say that during the whole negotiation process there was contact between the SIVA and the Ministry of Local Affairs by telephone and in meetings about the possible role for development – came on 12 January this year, where the Ministry of Local Affairs outlined proposals for organisational changes, with which it is working. Nor was there anything said at the time about the intention agreement, which was worked on. This Memorandum of Understanding was briefed by the Ministry of Local Affairs on the 2nd of February of the current year, after we became acquainted with it through Today's Business. So there has been a very serious lack of information between SIVA and the Ministry of Local Affairs in relation to progress. And it can't be possible that Sponheim State Council was made aware of these plans during his visit to SIVA last year, because the intention agreement was at that time unknown. There were some quite different elements in relation to SIVA's plans that the Sponheim Council was briefed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e623	In reality, the question of SIVA is a petition in this whole case, which has gone over nine rounds. You should almost think that, in the boxing language, it's just before you say 'ten and out'. But we'll see what's going to happen after I see that Opseth this afternoon is out in Nettavisen and we're saying that today's transmission proposal doesn't mean that it's up to the Government to choose who is going to be the state's partner to the actor IT Fornebu Technoport. Can Enoxen then suggest to Stortinget whether the Government is at all equipped with some sort of room for action in the further follow-up work, or whether one is stuck inside the retracted corridor to Hedstrøm and Rudihagen? So Enoksen says that the matter can be quite centralizing, and it says the same municipal minister who refers to a report that shows that more than half of the state investment in the last few years has been made in the Central East. With what kind of enthusiasm is Enoch now going to follow up on a further strengthening of these state investments in the Central East? And doesn't Enoxen see that, with the outcome of this case, he has to fight a little harder on the matter and maybe a little less on the survival side? Then you would have won with the principle view, a view that could have been a contribution when the government is out talking about the establishment of commercial gardens in the rest of the country, that something else had been achieved than what could have been the result, that these commercial gardens would be reduced to the purest porches around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e630	The difference between the Government's proposal and the Right's proposal is that, with the Right's proposal too, an IT and knowledge centre on Fornebu could be built in private, a centre where there is no government governance in relation to a regional dimension and in relation to the effect of such an establishment on district policy. There has been an important issue for the Government to interact between a centre in Fornebu and the regional environments to ensure that this type of enterprise and this type of competence are built up throughout the country. This has been done by the government through business activities through the SIVA's involvement in the knowledge parks and in the research parks. We also intend to give SIVA a central role in the development of Fornebu, just to ensure regional interaction, which will not be safeguarded by a proposal where it is open to private stakeholders to develop a centre on Fornebu as they wish and which could become highly centralised. I assume that when a proposal is converted into a transmission proposal, the proposers also agree not to adopt the proposal, but actually to convert it into a transmission proposal. And as I said in my post: I am pleased that the government has the necessary room for action to make the assessments that we think are necessary in relation to how we are going to use the government's instrumentation, including SIVA, which we intend to give a central role in relation to the development of the Fornebu Centre. I've also said that I'm skeptical about letting this include property development, because I think it will help turn the attention away from what SIVA should do in relation to property development, namely, to bet heavily in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e637	Nine times we have dealt with this matter, and it would have done well with one. Because it has been clear from day one that the rest of the treatment of this case has only been to cover the fact that from the outset it had decided that IT Fornebu and Fred. Olsen should have this project. It's been a rail maneuver from end to end. From the day one, the majority has been in Fred's pocket. Olsen. Now I wonder if the government is about to join a new rail manoeuvre to cover up the fact that the majority is going to detail this matter as much in the future. It seems that the Government intends to continue to bend and scrape on after nine-time referral from the Workers' Party and the Advance Party also on how to manage the state ownership of this company. It's about SIVA. In my view, none of the members of the Government have been able to explain whether they have any room for action at all, whether they intend to use it, and whether they will see that it may be appropriate to think differently than the majority does. SIVA has guidelines and purpose paragraph. SIVA is a district policy instrument. I could imagine asking the Council of State, Enoksen, who is responsible for district policy: When did Fornebu and Bærum become a district? The SIVA shall also pay particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises. When did IT become Fornebu and Fred. Olsen a small or a medium-sized enterprise that needs state help in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e646	I actually mean to have answered this question twice already. The government already had in St.prp. No 35 intended to play an important role in the development of IT fornebu, precisely to ensure an interaction between an IT and knowledge centre in Fornebu and similar environments in the regions. It was just to be lacking that the Government should not stand firm by its own views in this way. In addition to that, I have said that I believe that also having SIVA take care of the state's property interests at Fornebu will be a breach both with the guidelines for SIVA and with the rotation that I want SIVA to now take into account making a larger proportion of the investments in the districts, just to build up these types of environments also in District Norway. I repeat what I have said: the fact that the majority has converted this proposal into a transmission proposal gives the Government a room to make the assessments that we believe are necessary. We want to organise this in the best possible way. We will follow up on what we have said in the proposition, and we will, of course, as the majority have asked, and as the Government has also said, also assign SIVA a central role in the development of the Fornebu Centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e654	The debate on the Society for Industrial Growth, SIVA, has been central here today, and he has mainly concerned the degree to which SIVA should participate and play a role in the further development of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu, and the centrality of this role. The views of the contents of SIVA's involvement have been somewhat absent. For example, Commissioner Lund said: the central role of SIVA. The Prime Minister said that he took the transmission proposal with him and saw it as a political signal. He also said that SIVA should have an important role. And State Council Enoxen said a little about content, he said they would be able to be assigned a role, but he might say most about what they shouldn't do. The majority mentions the content of SIVA’s involvement on pages 8 and 9 of the resolution and specifies this in the form of the decision in point 2 – a proposal for a decision now proposed to be converted into a transmission decision. But there's more than one idea. I refer to the proposal and to the plural note, which I believe and think a government should take seriously. It must be reasonable to expect that at least the Minister for Local Government, responsible for SIVA, has thought more about the content of SIVA's commitment. He asked who mentioned everything in April last year SIVA to evaluate this, and I argued that he knows what he wants with SIVA in this context. I ask him to inform the Storting about what role SIVA is going to have on Fornebu, what is the content of what is going to be their commitment, and why doesn't the Council of State mean what he meant a year or a half ago? And finally, at what point does this conflict that Enoxsen sees for itself should be SIVA's commitment, to the plural's comments and suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e665	I think the government has said quite a lot about what kind of role we've been thinking of SIVA, and I've also said a lot about it in my post. When SIVA has been given a more and more central role in recent years, both in relation to the development of business areas, in relation to the government’s incubator effort and in relation to the fact that SIVA has also been given the opportunity to join the knowledge parks and research parks, it is precisely because we want SIVA to play a central role in the development of new industries in District Norway. It's solid. It's also where we see that SIVA has a mission in relation to the Fornebu Centre, where we can interact with this centre and the regional environments. The majority note on page 9 states that SIVA is intended to be the State’s representative both in the visionary company and in the property company. Of course, as the Prime Minister said, the government takes these comments with it in its further assessment. It was just supposed to be missing. That is the majority's view, and this is what the Government will take with it in the further work. I can end by repeating what I said in my main post, and which I have now answered in two lines: in relation to the development of the incubator part, in relation to the innovation environments and in relation to the interaction between the Fornebu centre and the regional environments, SIVA will have a central role. I'm critical to also let SIVA have a role in property development at Fornebu. I believe that we can use SIVA to a greater extent in relation to the development of these kinds of environments in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e674	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e677	In business policy, we face three main challenges. First of all, we're going to fix the conditions so that the established enterprises have the framework conditions to use the new technology in their daily operations. Studies show that Norwegian industry is lagging behind other OECD countries when it comes to using new technologies. Secondly, we are going to set the conditions so that as many works as are advised, based on their competence and product, are able to take the step from the old to the new economy and technology. Nokia may here be the prime example of its utility if it wants and the authorities play on a team. Thirdly, we must be drivers and facilitators so that business exploits the many new needs and solutions created by the new technology. This has also provided a basis for new products and new markets with high growth potential in Norway. Although this has served as a basis for one of the most important industrial activities, it has been demonstrated that, before ICT, Norway has been among the poorest of OECD countries. A report from the Norwegian Research Council shows that Norway has fewer innovative activities and produces fewer new products than the average in Europe. OECD figures show, however, that Norway is between those investing at least in R & D. It's the way to turn this image, the debate today should have been about, and it's from our side that this and all previous debates about an information and technology center in Fornebu have been about. We have to close with reverse developments, we are going to be able to create 800,000 new jobs over the next 20 years. In such a situation, it is sad that, while other countries have acted, for several years, we have been making new rounds in the United Kingdom. There can be no doubt that since the government shift, it is the Storting that has been and is the driver to speed up the development of industry within information technology in Norway. The majority first discussed an IT centre at Fornebu in the management of its long-term programme for 1998-2001 by the government of Jagland. It's been three years, and we're still at the talk stage, although the bulk of the population at several times has defined the course, level and content of an IT knowledge centre at Fornebu. Norway had a good starting point for the international first division in the development of product and services in information technology. Because of the lack of action here at home, our neighbouring countries, and indeed several countries before the OECD, have made a head start. If it were the case that the Government had wanted a dialogue with the majority of the population in this case to find solutions at an earlier time, it would have been possible, but at least for the Labour Party, there has been very little initiative from the Government to enter into dialogue, it is about content, size and player in connection with an IT knowledge centre at Fornebu. Why Fornebu, ask many, and there are many different arguments used to suspect the location of Fornebu. The reason is very simple: if we are to build an IT knowledge centre of international format, we need to build it around the international technological lighthouse Norway has, Telenor. As you know, Telenor is about to establish himself on Fornebu. So the simple explanation is, and there's no reason for anyone to suspect the plural motives in that context. That Telenor must be an important player in an IT knowledge centre if one is to be closed should be obvious to everyone. I'm surprised that the government doesn't see that once Finland is closed, it's based on Nokia. Once Sweden has closed, it is based on Ericsson. In this regard, the government has gone from being opposed to becoming a long follower. Therefore, the Government wants the least option, even if none of the most innovative technological environments we have are on the owner page of the Government option. Had government and magnification had the same starting point at the beginning of the oil age as the government has in this matter, we would not have had the national lift before oil and gas technology that we've had. It should be possible for more people to learn from just the developments we've had in that area. It would have been right for the future if the government had been busy in how the IT centre would be an engine for the development of information technology in our country, but at the same time a supporter of the many research parks, business environments and knowledge centers we have around the country. It's a pleasure, as I understand the Government now, that SIVA should have a central role in the development of the IT knowledge centre at Fornebu. I take the government seriously when they say that, and that is one of the reasons why we have made II in the proposal for a transmission proposal. But it is still the case that the proposal is there and expresses its view of the majority of the population, and I expect that it will be given great importance in the work that the Government now wants to carry out in the further process in that area. But it is also the case that the government and the government council, Sponheim, through this debate, have accepted that the Storting chooses a different actor than the one proposed by the Government, and takes the defeat this is. I have to say that when it comes to defending the Government's position as long as it is advised, it is the Council of State of Davøy that has gone the farthest. But I assume that when the Government accepts this defeat, the Government does it as a government, and that no one is going to carry on that struggle. It would be bad if there was no agreement in the government to accept the defeat they have been made in this matter today. I am overconfident that further developments will show that what many, and perhaps especially the Right, are most eager to criticise is a forward-looking measure. It would be strange if we in Norway were to behave very differently on these issues than what we see around us in our neighbouring countries and other countries, it would be an engine if we were to really get speed on the development of new products and services within this area. We have seen for a long time that Norway does not have special traditions for innovative work within the many small and medium-sized enterprises. It is good if we get an actor who can be a supporter and a driver in this work within this important sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e705	I have noticed that the majority in Stortinget claims that the government has given priority to the property project in Fornebu-saka. This is not the case. Like the representative, Djupedal, I'm probably more surprised by the lack of comments on the importance of establishing research and education at a high level to close one with an IT centre. The reason why me and my department and the government have been so involved in this part of the case is that it has been important to fill an IT and knowledge centre with content: with high-level education in cooperation between right-wing educational establishments and research businesses capable of measuring the best international level of continuing education and training to improve the level of competence required for Norwegian enterprises to be internationally competitive; I have had a good dialogue with the right educational and research institutions that have the resources to help achieve these goals, perhaps especially the University of Oslo, the Norwegian University of Technology and of course the Norwegian Research Council. In line with the views expressed by these institutions, the Government has put forward proposals to set up a Research Centre in the field of ICT, where Norway has a special role to play. The Norwegian Research Council is now working on concreteising such a commitment. And through the «Company University», a cooperation between the University of Oslo, NTNU and Sintef on company law continuing education and training, we want to strengthen the competence and thus also the competitiveness of the Norwegian ICT industry. Finally, several of the right educational institutions, in cooperation with the Ministry, have made concrete plans for right-hand education in cooperation with any competent business that will be established at Fornebu. Here we already know that Telenor will come – whichever interested person is chosen here today – but that is all we know. So the government has taken the content page of an IT and knowledge center at Fornebu seriously and put concrete plans. I might have wished that the stakeholders, and perhaps especially the interest that the plural has gathered here in the hall, had the same level of concreteization, especially after so many years of planning. However, education and research under the direction of right-wing educational institutions must and must be independent of private investors. It would be directly wrong to set a framework on this activity that limits the business, professional integrity and autonomy of institutions. Therefore, I am concerned about the organisation that IT Fornebu Technoport has established. Here, then, the company IT Fornebu AS must have a very co-ordinated and centralist role in relation to the education and research actors, and I believe that there is definitely a need for precision in relation to the division of labour and the division of tasks. In contrast, in the organisation model of the Fornebu Network, this activity is organised in the company FU Fornebu AS, where the education and research operators themselves are in the leadership. I believe that this is the best solution, where the institutions themselves are responsible for development and cooperation linked to education and research. We have to remember that from the outset research does not come through the decision of a board of scientists has problems dealing with it, but through creativity and innovation in an environment where researchers feel that they have control and influence. Both stakeholders argue that funds should be set aside to avoid higher renting costs for the areas to be used for education and research, but here, Network Fornebu provides more resources than IT Fornebu Technoport does. The means of keeping the rental costs down have also been made land-dependent in Technoport’s contract proposals. But even with the maximum area size, which is 605 pieces, these funds are smaller than what is included in the agreement with Network Fornebu. Furthermore, the private stakeholders behind the Fornebu Network make a larger direct contribution to education and research: They're adding $25 million. kr to strengthen and contribute to the educational and research activities of Fornebu. These funds are to be managed by the company FU Fornebu AS, in which the educational and research institutions are in charge. They're adding 100 million. kr in advanced research and development for the ICT sector. These funds will also stimulate regional development. And finally, the private actors themselves will establish the Institute of Electronic Distribution – an investment estimated at 45 million. kr. In a brief five-minute post, it is clear that an argument for the view that the Government has put into its proposition. I refer to the hearings and the answers I gave there. I think that of course there are also many good aspects to the other provider. So I'm saying that it's going to develop into an exciting center. But it is necessary – and I do not think it is critical either – that the representatives of the Government argue for why they have prioritised and recommended Storting to the submissions they have in their proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e747	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e750	I must first ask the Council of State to clear up something he started his speech with, because in the case of the educational and research institutions, the Stortinget at the Education Committee has been crystal clear. It shall take place on the premises of the educational institutions. There has been no other view of any of the Committee's members, and so the Storting has also agreed to this. I want to go back to a post that the representative Morten Lund had earlier today, where he took up what happened to the Ericsson group in relation to the South. Ericsson decided to stay in Sørland. South-East investors bet – a part of the same ones that are now part of IT Fornebu Technoport. Telenor bet, also part of IT Fornebu Technoport, and Education-Norway bet at the Workers' Party Government, which provided civil engineering training to the South so that this region could evolve. IT Fornebu Technoport has set up the same model for the different regions. However, it requires the Government to be willing to deploy national focal points in key areas of education. An area that is weak here is our northernmost part of the country. The simple question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State ensure that important node functions in the regions are deployed, with special care for the northernmost part of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e757	First, the clarification of what has been said in relation to the management of education and research. What's quite clear about this setting that we're now going to stick to, once again, the agreements that have been negotiated so far, is that the education that the public, i.e. the government, is going to contribute, of course, is to be governed by the institutions that have gone into it. What's different is that in the Fornebu Network, they have created a training council, where the private funds are also put in and are to be managed by those in charge of education and research, while in IT Fornebu Technoport's arrangement, IT Fornebu AS is to control it. That's the big difference. And then it's not about what the education committee has said in the past in relation to those who are there, but about what is in the agreements that are now put before the Storting, and which the Stortinget now agrees with through the multiples in the committee setting, where this is not at all problematic. Then I'd like to pay tribute to former state councillor Grete Knudsen for exactly what has been spelled the civil engineering education at the High School in Agder, located in Grimstad. There I think she was one of the drivers -- as we were quite a lot, but it was very necessary. Of course, the government will be involved in laying out a node where there is a professional basis for it. We've already shown that when we took over. It has been suggested that higher education institutions and regional research institutions have very good employment relationships compared to what was under the previous government. We want to do what we can to make the interested person that the large-scale majority now well, also have to go into such a function. And the public part should obviously be regionally based.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e764	I feel in many ways that the education and research part has drowned in this matter. Education and research have been drowned in debate on industry, number of jobs, the role of SIVA, shipowners and merchants. For me, however, the education and research components are very central. It should be obvious to the Council of State that there is a need for education and research in IT. This has been pointed out in several of the matters that have been dealt with in the subject area of the Council of State. As I see it, it's central, if you're going to get education and research of a certain size, that you have student housing, and you have to have rental homes for researchers. In this area, I see IT fornebu Technoport as clearly the best. The Council of State may have noticed that student cabinets were affected in the reply between the representative Morten Lund from the Senterpartiet and me. The representative Lund thought that the students should live in the Oslo area in general, not necessarily at Fornebu. I assume that the Council of State is aware that the area of Lund refers to, i.e. the Oslo area in general, has a huge shortage of student housing, and there is enormous pressure in the housing market. To put it more concretely: IT Fornebu Technoport is best at research and development in terms of breadth and long-termity. They have the best contact network and have clear intentions. They are the most advanced in decentralised education based on IT technology, and they are the best in student cabins and rental homes for researchers. From the point of view of education and research, it should be clear that IT should then be chosen fornebu Technoport. I find it difficult to understand how the Minister of Education and Research has come to support the proposal he has supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e777	Of course, I agree with the representative Ulf Erik Knudsen that education and research are a central element and have been too little in the debate in relation to what has become the theme of the debate. But I'd like to urge the representative Knudsen to read through the committee settings again and see what place they've given education and research. It's kind of sad stuff; it's pretty much nothing. It shows in a way that here the representative Knudsen and I both have a job to do, but I feel that the government has done more than the size of the case. So until why the government has come to the advice they've given about stakeholders. In both the negotiating committee and the reference group, there were many prominent people from universities, colleges and research communities – Principality Emil Spjøtvoll from NTNU and Morten Dæhlen from the Norwegian Research Council. They have given clear advice, and they have done so after working closely with the universities and universities, if they want to. So when the Government and the Minister of Education have come to the council that has been given to the Stortinget, it is based on the advice given by the professionals who had been put into this work. When it comes to student buildings, I can agree with the representative Knudsen that there is a shortage of that, we might need more of that. But if you look at the number of major students and doctoral students who will be at the Centre in the foreseeable future, there is more than enough room in the project recommended by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e786	The Minister of Education and Research is quite obviously right when he points out that IT Fornebu, or IT Fornebu Technoport, now called the project, has presented visions that no one in the Norwegian professional community shares. In fact, it is neither in the IT industry, among those who are professionals in that field, nor in the research and education communities in question who have seen the light that the majority in this room have constantly seen, and who have led this majority to purchase the rhetoric that the sales department of IT Fornebu has always provided to the Stortinget. It should have caused the majority of people to think about it in themselves, when none of the professionals in the field that you say you're out to help, have faith that this is a sensible design. Now the Minister of Education argued with some conviction for the second worst option, for which the Government has let itself be pushed in. What for me – as this debate has rolled and went idle today – is becoming more and more puzzling, is the question of why not the Government was on its original proposal. Everything indicates that if you had dared to stand on it, you would have had an impact on it. It would have saved the country unnecessary use of quite a lot of public capital, it would probably have provided better IT development, and it would also have given educational and research institutions freer and better working conditions than they are now going to have. Why hasn't the Government stood on its real conviction?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e794	First, I would like to thank the representative for the line, where the first piece was a very good substantiation of what I tried to say and did not get enough time to say in my previous reply. So the representative asked the payroll, why didn't the government say the over-indicator? It has been black from the prime minister and from other government councils today that it is a good thing to bow to a large majority. And once you've accepted to do that, it's also wise to put premises that will lead the case in the best possible direction. So what is it that the Government has achieved in that way? The government has managed to control the public institutions with the public research and education bit. It's an essential part. So one has achieved that there has been a separation of better regional policy profile across the whole scheme. So one doesn't get what your salary describes as the second worst. I have said that there are of course good things with both projects, and I believe that it is possible to get a collaboration that can be involved and do it for the IT industry that the IT industry has in some way not wanted and asked for in advance. So saying overindulgence can obviously be a good thing, but once you've been subdued, I think it's a good policy to influence as much as possible in the direction that one wants the result to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e803	If you really were convinced of something – and I thought that perhaps the councillors of the Christian People's Party were – I think you chose to stand on it. The problem of rowing this matter ashore comes, among other things. of being very unclear. It's a good thing to bow down,' says State Councillor Lilletun. Is it good to go in for something that is not safe, as the Council of State so clearly signals in its statement? He is concerned about the organisation of the project that is currently being selected, for example: because he is concerned that there cannot be sufficient governance of research and education to ensure that it does not go beyond what the Council of State agrees to, namely that developments in this area should take place at the discretion of the educational institutions. SV shares that concern deeply, and we fear that this will lead to a depletion of resources. If research and education had been in focus, never would IT Fornebu, as we see today, have been realized. It might have been a nutrition project based on industry's own initiative, it could have been something. But the problem is that it comes, and that you also say that this should be a educational and research project. Then I would like to ask the Council of State: does the Council of State believe that this vision of ensuring both industrial development, research and education can be realized without this daunting District Norway and is at the expense of development in research, education and school elsewhere in the country, without paralleling a solid and thoughtful commitment to school, education and research that is far beyond what the Government has now invested in its budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e810	A minority government has to accept defeat in Stortinget at even intervals, and it's kind of a thing that I also believe Andersen's representative is agreed upon when it comes to the play. So I want to clarify once more what I said in terms of education and research. I said that we had achieved that in the part that is public education and research, we have managed from the educational institutions and the research community their premises. On the part that they put in, it's a management model for IT Fornebu Technoport that, in my view, is worse than the Fornebu Network has. But it's not like we're losing control of what's the public part of it, we have control of it. So, the representative, Karin Andersen, asks, can't this bottle up the districts? A suggestion that was made earlier, as some wanted to run on, was that education places should be allocated to Fornebu to a greater extent. We've been able to make a pass for a failure, despite the fact that some high-pitched people here in the district wanted it. It would certainly have dropped the marbles outside. When it comes to the research piece, I think it's very wise to have a center for forward research connected to Telenor. So it's not just black and white, there's a lot of nuances in this case. What I'm now going to call the representative Karin Andersen is that we're working together to get a technology development here in the district that's good, linked to IT-Fornebu, while doing the regional part in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e821	State Council Lilletun has, as I understand it, been one of the most enthusiastic in the government for the establishment of IT Fornebu according to a model from the Norwegian Investor Forum. Yes, he was so positive that he meant that the Institute of Computer Science at the University of Oslo was to be located in Fornebu. But no one else meant it. On the other hand, the Church, Education and Research Committee has been in favour of the individual educational institutions themselves deciding what cooperation, if any, should be like at the educational institutions' own premises. They shall participate, if they wish, and withdraw whenever they wish, thus combining their own education with the Fornebu offer. I'll give the council a new chance. I asked the Council of State to confirm that he also interprets it as the Stortinget in all its documents has laid down. In the past, state councils have been a little vague in their response to this question. When a hearing councillor Davøy earlier this evening, a few of the impressions could be that only the government wanted to have the educational and research institutions on their own premises. In that case, this is wrong. The size has had the same general approach angle to this question all along.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e830	To begin with, what the Council of State has commented on, and what I have commented on, is that a significant part of the research piece, the part with which the providers themselves were to enter, is more guided in relation to the premises of the research environment themselves at Network Fornebu than at IT Fornebu Technoport. It can be read in the current setting from the Business Committee, where a few documents will be shown exactly that bit. The contracts of intent entered into provide clear evidence. Then I will again show that the matter we are dealing with here today is the one that is leading today. There's hardly anything said about education and research, despite the fact that there are two plans here today, where there's also an important part. So to the first point that the representative Oppebøen Hansen had made, i.e. the Institute of Computer Science at the University of Oslo. What is the reality of this? Well, when one realized that a majority in Stortinget wanted the public to go in with investment and research at Fornebu, it was important that a seventeen were so that the public institutions could be the ones who went into this environment badly. Therefore, I sent a request to the University of Oslo if they were interested. They had to deal with it in their organs. They did, and found out that they would rather be gathered. That's why it's very clear that there's an offer to secure our own institutions that are already in Oslo, instead of establishing something new, that would lead new places to an area that already has too many problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e839	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e842	The debate on an IT centre in Fornebu has probably taken a completely different direction in many ways than most people might have imagined today. The debate has run for two. Firstly, of course, it has been about the choice of the company to expand the IT centre at Fornebu. Here, with the votes of the Labour Party and the Advance Party, the majority is in favour of a company other than that recommended by the Government. For its part, the government has provided solid justification for its choice. I don't want to go into this in any detail, but I refer to the proposition, to the setting and to the comments from the government parties. It also makes it clear that the option IT Fornebu Technoport, for which the majority is in favour, is problematic both in terms of state financial investment and in terms of the ability to ensure the necessary control of State interests. Now, a minority government, as Councillor Lilletun also said, has to find out, of course, that the bulk of the population in some cases means something other than the government. It is part of the realistic recognition of being a minority government. The Prime Minister has now explained that one in this case will accept what a majority in the Stortinget wants as a development company. But in the wake of this, we see fresh attempts to present it so that the government almost goes down after failure on a case-by-case basis. It's supposed to be careful, because that's no reason at all to claim. I would like to recommend a closer study of the interesting article in the VG yesterday, based on a socio-scientific study that shows that the government of Bondevik has been very effective, very effective, also compared to other minority governments that we have had recently. For my part, at the end of a long debate, I shall not go into this with precision, but refer only to the article. This morning, in the beginning of this debate, the rapporteur gave both a useful and important clarification on II, because it is necessary that there is no doubt that there is respect for the division of tasks and responsibilities between the magnificence and the government, and that the Government must have the necessary right to have its own instruments, such as: SIVA and other state companies at the disposal of the Government. Some speakers express surprise at the Government's interpretation of II. But here it does not apply to the eyes that see, because the matter is quite clear. In its form, II intervenes in a problematic way in the responsibility of the Government, thus making unclear the constitutional lines that must be between the tasks of the Government and the mode of action of the Storing. With the conversion of this point to a transmission proposal, we have received a necessary clarification. As the Prime Minister said, SIVA will have an important role to play in developing the IT centre at Fornebu. This is also mentioned in the proposition. But there's an important fundamental difference in how this is now to be followed up. With the conversion to a transmission proposal, it becomes clear that it is up to the Government to follow up on the way in which SIVA is to be incorporated as a party to the concept of which the majority is advocating. When some speakers, especially from the Workers' Party, in their contributions cash in almost full words during this treatment, there is no need for us to go particularly deep into such claims. The fact that II was actually changed to a transmission proposal is important to us. It has brought this matter into the right constitutional path. We're happy with that. It shows that the Government is still in control of the means at its disposal. It provides the Government with the necessary room for action when this matter is to be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e864	Most of it has been said in this debate – as the representative for pay so strikingly said: a debate that has gone on empty. However, I take the floor because today we are dealing with the disposal of the Oslo inner file in housing and nutrition. We are about to adopt the use of 260 state millions to participate in a new major investment here in the Oslo area. It merges into a wide range of major projects in the central east. It will be a new example of the centralisation policy that sucks labour from districts. It is clear that Norway needs to participate in the development of IT in the world, but I cannot understand that a new large centre on Fornebu is the right choice, and then with state interference. Telenor has established itself on Fornebu. It would be natural for economic development to take place on the basis of commercial considerations. As the representative of Wohnning points out, the environments that support IT in educational contexts are not interested in this development at Fornebu. Therefore, it becomes a little strange when the high-tech environments that are already established here in Norway do not have such an interest in it. Then this is a purely business venture. And what happens then, as I see it, is that this is a direct gift package for the builders who are chosen. I also see that there is a great State subsidy for the housing construction that is going to take place there, and I do not think it is those who are in the house queue and those who are most disadvantaged, who will be able to use the dwellings that are being built. In my opinion, it is an obvious requirement that the IT effort to which the State is going to participate should benefit the whole country. We have a number of environments around the country that need state investment precisely in the IT context. The plot at Fornebu should have been sold to the maximum bidder. The money should have benefited the whole people. I have taken the floor today to clarify my scepticism for the entire large state investment in Fornebu and the technological stronghold given to the builders in their hands. I hereby inform you that I am voting against both of the options presented. But I am voting in favour of proposal No. 2, which is also present in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e875	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e878	It is 116 years since parliamentaryism was introduced here in the country. Many have recently asked new questions about the relationship between Stortinget and the Government, and the Grand President has invited us to a seminar on the matter. It is important that the public and the political environment take this debate seriously. I agree with those who have said that today's attitude from the nutrition committee contains the most important example of detailed big business – and that in a way that confuses important principles in parliamentarism and in administration. Is it so that this is a line of majority – the Labour Party and the Advance Party – will defend and stand behind as an example for later follow-up? Then it is claimed from the majority who have established themselves in this matter that the detailed management is necessary because the government has allegedly not followed up the bulk of the population. There has been talk of training, and Stoltenberg says in Dagbladet today that the government “has hesitated to follow up the majority in this case”. To the NRK, the representative Opseth said today that it has been lost three years because the government has not followed up the will of the majority of the population. In a statement, I would like to make it clear that the Government has not yet been sitting for three years. My question is, what is it in this case that the Government has not followed up? Now no one has followed this case, which is in doubt that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party at a very early stage decided for whom to develop the Fornebu. No one has been able to avoid seeing how this majority of speakers in the case have disagreed with the action taken by the Government by bringing in established educational and research environments, by making representations and demands on the builders, and not least by opening up free competition in the open public space. Has Stortinget said that this should not happen? No, on the contrary. The Storting has given the Government the room for action, and they have taken advantage of it. Even the Workers' Party and the Advance Party could not, in the form of decisions, say that they would not have these investigations, would not have competition, would not have transparency. That's why the question is still central: what is the government's failure to follow up? Without a clear answer to this question, one must assume that the expectations have not been met in accordance with the actual decisions taken in this Chamber, but on the basis of the unspoken intentions which the majority must have had in favour of a particular interested party. It's probably where the dog is buried.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e892	As I see this matter, it is relatively clear a choice between two possible alternatives with private operators of a cooperation project between public and private businesses. In this option, the game in the right appears to have signed up, and will neither respond nor respond. It's something remarkable to me. In many cases, the right has, for example: in the opera business, criticised the Progress Party for not wanting to make clear choices when the bulk of the population had made premises in previous cases. In this case, I feel that the Right falls for its own criticism. The debate has simply declared itself out of place. Enough about that. For the Progress Party, the education and research part of this project is very central. We have many times found in this room Norway’s shortcomings in education and research in IT, both centrally and regionally. Fornebu, if we make the right choices, can help solve some of this problem. In the long term, this could lead to positive industrial development and strengthen our competitiveness as a nation. From the Right’s proposal, it may appear that the lot, albeit reluctantly, opens up a little research and education — only the area does not exceed 8 000 m2. Very defensive, I mean. If you look at the comments of the party, this vision is further enhanced. There you talk almost exclusively about nutrition. I understand that one can be concerned that the public should be actively involved in something that has to do with business – it is also clear in the basic position of the Progress Party. However, through the last two election campaigns, we have repeatedly heard from the Right that Norway needs to invest more in education and research; there are, as a matter of fact, no limits on how much to bet. Where, then, is the Right when you come to concrete action here in the staging room? That is when the debate comes out. It's very disappointing. Earlier this evening we witnessed that the Right Leader, Jan Petersen, tried to judge what has happened today, as a retreat and a defeat for the majority. I think he used the expression "up like a lion and down like a skin trap." How to arrive at such an assessment amazes me. The central issue for us is a clear decision regarding the choice of partners, and this indicates that we will have. So after over two years of working on this matter, it seems that we get a very satisfactory result.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e907	This has evolved more and more towards a matter that, especially after today's vote, has hardly landed completely. If one is to settle the status so far, there is no doubt that the Workers' Party seems to have won the case, but lost the debate, and the Government has lost the matter, but in a wonderful way got out with the skin – without it necessarily having to be the skin to which Jan Petersen referred in his previous post – almost round. The manoeuvres of the Labour Party in this matter are something wonderful. There has been a situation of coercion in this trick game, mostly in the direction of the Progress Party, and where there is probably resistance to it, not to end up as the total blackmailer in the debate. And it's even more amazing when the Progress Party here today is out and gives the Right a hard kick on the skin. I think the first thing you should do in the Progress Party is read your own program. It doesn't take very long. The second thing is to read your own budget. It's going fast, too. There are large and simple numbers to deal with, except for everything that goes on research and education. There is no room for this debate at all – unfortunately. It could be tempting to ask the Progress Party the following question: Who is the reference to, who is the reference in today's debate, when it is shown that it is the ICT industry that has been the actors to drive forward the solution that is currently receiving a temporary majority? Rams up eight-ten of today's leading actors, then we have something to deal with. But I know who you've actually listened to, and it's not the ICT industry that's behind these desires or these dreams. An environment like to consist of proximity, not of a state-enforced density that only results in centralisation, in other words, less to the others in an industry that should have spent much more time in this debate on how to educate more people and ensure that the companies that are in the process are given framework conditions so that they remain in this country. And then you have to save the Norwegian Storing in order to give the impression that it is so bad with Norwegian ICT industry that you are able to perform on the part of the Progress Party and the Workers' Party, because that is far from the case. You are among the foremost in the world. You must not try to describe the world as you do in this debate, because it does not serve the debate at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e916	First a little detail that should be corrected for the sake of order. The representative Oppebøen Hansen claimed that the Minister of Education and Research Lilletun was so enthusiastic that he thought as the only one that the Institute of Computer Science at the University of Oslo was to be moved to Fornebu. That's not right. The one who first got the idea was a former Minister of Education and Research from the Workers' Party named Gudmund Hernes. He later went over and served his bread at IT Fornebu, as known. The correctness shall be correct. But then to what I believe for the historians of the future is going to be standing as a mystery in the course of this matter from beginning to end, with the nine-time treatment in the Stortinget mentioned many times during the day. State Council Lilletun said it's a good way to bend when you're in a minority. Yes, it may be – up to a certain limit. There is a lot that speaks for, after the course of today, that if the Government had at an early stage stood at its primary position, the artificial and objectively pointless alliance between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party had cracked already in the first turn. An experience that both this and other future minority governments can take with them is that delimitation is a neglected phenomenon in today’s Norwegian communities in many contexts. Here one could have drawn the limit at a very early stage, and the evidence suggests that the Progress Party and the Workers' Party had then declined their position. As a result, the countless treatments in Stortinget had also been released down to the last level of detail that the coalition Progress Party/Work Party itself understood was to go too far and thus drew the consequences before today's debate began. I believe this for the historians of the future is going to remain enigmatic.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e930	This has basically been a nice and exciting day. A lot has happened inside the hall, and a lot has happened in the scenes, in the hiking hall and in the corridors. As I understand the journalists, there's now a big discussion about what's really happened in the scenes, who's talked to who, and who's talked to first who and had good ideas, and little about the central thing that's going on in the hall. I've also wondered what really happened, and why there's been so much hulumhei about big business and crisis mood. I have come to the conclusion that there can only be one person who has had a firm hand with the regime, namely Grand President Kirsti Kolle Grondahl, because she has very much wanted to get a great deal of attention about the seminar Monday and Tuesday. And it's been, with or without her control. And I think it's actually nice that some have put the spotlight on constitutional questions, any disadvantages that the Stortinget makes decisions and gives instructions to the Government, it's detailed or not detailed, and that these are also topics that are discussed in a slightly larger perspective. In this way, I actually think that this has been a good recording of this big business seminar that is likely – I hope at least – to be the beginning of some more studies, studies and assessments of how we organise the governance of Norwegian society. But the fact that someone has spoken together and come to common sense and has got a solution to what seemed to be difficult, must be the most important thing, and it must be positive, even though some people are angry because they have missed out on a real battalion and perhaps government problems or change. So I think this has been a good day for Stortinget. A problem has been solved and a good consensus has been reached. For example, even the Prime Minister of the Chair has confirmed that SIVA must have a central role in what becomes the IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu, and at least we in the Progress Party are satisfied with what will be the I decision and the stress on the part of the Prime Minister. It's probably also the case in pay-roll policy, that it may sometimes have to get a little to the end in order to get sensible solutions and reasonable admittances. And there's really no reason for the Storting to be ashamed that one has got a solution to something that seemed to be going really bad, seen with our eyes, because we don't want and haven't had a wish for any government change. So finally, let me just make it clear that I would recommend the Progress Party Group to vote against the proposal from Kristin Halvorsen, since this is just the theme of the seminar, and that's what's going to happen. And it is not necessary to ask the Presidency to do a job that the Presidency should not do.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e939	I don't think I'm going to take the credit or the burden on the direction of today's debate. I ask for the word to comment on the proposal that Kristin Halvorsen has addressed on behalf of SV, which is related to this particular matter. As Carl I. Hagen just mentioned, the Stortinget will hold a seminar on Monday and Tuesday, which has been initiated by the Presidency. This seminar will address the theme ‘Do we need constitutional reforms?’. Today’s debate provides good evidence that such a seminar may be needed, but that is not why this seminar is held. This seminar was decided on as early as last October. But since I expect that the more general issue addressed in Kristin Halvorsen's proposal will be one of the elements of this seminar, and which will probably also be followed up in investigations after the seminar, under these circumstances I will recommend the Stortinget to vote against the proposal of Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e948	At the bottom of this debate, I want to ask the Government, and perhaps later governments too, notice that this matter and other matters have been a cry for delimitation. Just the rumor via the World Times that the government could think of showing a single muscle, made the Progress Party change its perception. I hope it increases the Government's desire to put its foot down in some matters, and perhaps especially a little later this week say clearly from where the cabinet should stand. So to Kirsti Kolle Grondahl's post: it's been important for SV to say that this case has consequences both constitutionally and controllably. In particular, because, at the same time as this case is under way, the Stortinget has had difficult control cases on the table of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the case has become a paradox for SV. We have the matter of the Gardermoban and the expansion of the new main aerodrome, where the bulk of the population does not seem to be able to conclude in the control job that is clearly under Stortinget. We have the matter of the Rikshospitalet and exceedances in the case of the Rikshospitalet – where soon open hearings begin. And we have the case of the Fatima project, which is exceeded by 58 pst. In those cases, it is fairly clear who is responsible for the proposal, for the information the Stortning has received, etc., and who it is that should actually be checked. In the cases where the Government has submitted proposals to the Stortinget about a builder in a specific matter, but the bulk of the population overtake the Government, it is unclear who is responsible. The formal responsibility of course lies with the Government when they accept it, but the real responsibility here is, and so the real decision has been taken off, the Workers' Party's and the Advance Party's major groups. There is a background for this proposal from the SV to be presented. We are aware that the Storting's seminar, which is the first of its kind – and all the proponents of the President to address it, might have been a bit more topical than the presidency had thought when it was decided – will follow up on the kind of issues that come to the wake of relevant issues in this regard. But I don't want to draw the proposal, I want to turn it into a transmission proposal. I fear that there will be a situation in three years, five years or ten years, where the Storting sits with the nut: how in the world are we going to be able to control this matter afterwards? Then I want in the Minutes that there are some people who thought about this before we got that far.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e957	The President has noted that the proposal has been converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e960	There is an explanation of vote on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party. I would recommend the representatives of these two parties to vote against all minority proposals and for voting I and III, and I would like to stress that during the debate, II is in the vote turned into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e965	With that, the debate seems to be in substance. 5 to be over, and it's now called voting. [[See page 2381]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e973	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e993	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Jan Simonsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on the proposal No. 2, from Kristin Krohn Devold on behalf of the Right First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government, in the light of a greater review of labour immigration, to submit to the Stortinget proposals for changes based on the fact that all self-employed persons who are provided with a job should be given a work permit for a limited period of time.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e1016	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for tightening up the rules on labour immigration so that the scheme is in practice changed to a system of guest workers by not allowing for continuous work in Norway for more than 3 years, and so as not to give rise to family reunification.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e1055	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Tor Nymo, on behalf of the Central Party, submitted from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 15 February 2000: The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget with the amendment of the law giving the compensation rules in Section 16 paragraph of the Watercourse Regulation Act. 3 and 4 shall also apply in case of expropriation to wind power plants.» The Progress Party and the Right announced in Odelstinget that they would support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e1076	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Anita Apelthun Säle on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and Left Proposal No. 2, by Ansgar Gabrielsen on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 3, from Kristin Halvorsen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party Proposals Nos. 1 and 2 are included in the adjustment, while proposal No. 3 is distributed in the hall. The President noted that proposal No. 1 has been corrected by not including paragraph 2 and consequently leaving the proposal. The vote is first on the minority proposals and then on the setting. The President will first deal with proposal No. 3, from the Socialist Left Party. This proposal is converted into a transmission proposal by the proposer, and the proposal then reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Presidency review the control and constitutional consequences of the majority of the population instructing the Government of the Fornebusak IT.’ The President will propose that the proposal be forwarded to the Presidency without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘1. Training and research activities are facilitated in Terminal Building. However, this must be done in line with the wishes and plans of the established training institutions. The activity is added to the Terminal Building. The need for land is assessed at approx. 8 000 m2. 2nd@item: inlistbox ==References== 200 decks of state-owned properties regulated for commercial purposes, including the land under the Terminal Building, are sold with IT guides. Residual state properties not intended to be nature reserves, green areas, public roads, etc. are sold without bindings at the highest price possible. Furthermore, the areas of Terminal Building, excluding 8000 m2 for research and training purposes, are sold with IT guides at the highest price possible. 3rd@item: inlistbox The State shall contribute to the establishment of incubator activity where cooperation is established between enterprises, educational and research institutions and the State instrument. The activity is added to the Terminal Building.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e1122	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision consents to the conclusion by the State of the Ministry of Labour and Administration v/Statsbyggen of an agreement with the Fornebu AS Network for the establishment of an IT and knowledge centre at Fornebu.’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-03-07-2.ana.ud2286e1136	You're going to have to vote over the setting. The President shall first take the position II, which is now converted into a transmission proposal and worded as follows: ‘The Government is advised to facilitate the SIVA to become the body responsible for safeguarding the country’s interests in the IT and knowledge centre.’ The President will propose that II in this form be transmitted to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. A vote shall then be taken on the remaining part of the proposal for a decision.
