ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-10.ana.ud418e56	Honourable co-representatives! As we all know, the Committee on Energy and the Environment has experienced a tragic accident during its journey. Jan Johnsen is dead. Today, our thoughts go especially to his closest. It's when such tragic accidents hit us, that we fully understand how close and close we live in this house. We share each other's grief and joy. Now it's the grief that's hit us, and we need each other to process it. The President therefore considers it appropriate to propose that the consideration of the issues on the current map be postponed to a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. We gather in one minute's silence in memory of Jan Johnsen. The representatives heard the speech of the standing president.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-10.ana.ud418e71	The Storting has received the following condolences from His Majesty the King: "I send my condolence on the occasion of the sudden disappearance of Mr. Jan Johnsen and ask you to convey my profound sympathy to the survivors." There will be memories of Jan Johnsen in a later meeting. Before we cancel this meeting, we have to go through some formalities. The representatives Ansgar Gabrielsen, Eirin Faldet, Hans J. Røsjorde, Anita Apelthun Seele, Lars Sponheim, Tomas Norvoll, Marit Tingelstad, Lars Rise, Jan Simonsen, Oddbjørg Ausdal Starrfelt, Jorunn Ringstad and Elsa Scarbøvik, who have been licensed, have once again taken their seats. The representative of Hilde Frafjord Johnson has been informed that the licence application granted has been withdrawn for the time being from 6 April until further notice. – This message is taken into account. A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Ms Bæivi, Randi Karlstrøm, Astrid Marie Nistad and Kari Økland on leave from 10 April to 12 April, all to attend the Conference on Women's Life in the Barents Region under the direction of the Nordic Council, in Murmansk from the Socialist Group on the leave of the representative Mr Myrvoll in the days 10 and 11 April to take part in the election as an observer for the OSCE in the elections in Georgia from the Socialist Group of the Left on sick leave of the representative Mr Ågot Valle in the period from 10 April to 11 April and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Finnmark County: Inger Lise Balandin and Kåre HarilaFor Hordaland County: Eirik Langeland MountainFor Nordland County: Lisbeth Holand and Oddbjørn HanssenFor Sogn and Fjordane County: Reidar Sandal3. Inger Lise Balandin and Lisbeth Holand are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Mimmi Beivi and Inge Myrvoll.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-04-10.ana.ud418e190	Inger Lise Balandin, Kåre Harila, Lisbeth Holand, Oddbjørn Hanssen and Reidar Sandal are present and have taken the seat.
