ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e24	The draft budget presented represents a strong commitment to health. It's nothing new. Both in the overall effort and in the preparation of the effort, the draft budget represents a continuation of the broad consensus in the Storting in recent years. As a result of this initiative, Norway is now among the countries in Europe that spend the most money on health and care. That's the way it should be. And in many ways, we can say that our healthcare system is of high quality and provides more and better services to the whole population. But we must not believe that because we spend more money on health than most other countries, we automatically have a better health care than most others. There are still major weaknesses in our healthcare system. The challenge is to address these while maintaining the good general standard. Our health care system is definitely a public responsibility. It is also an area where the requirements for accessibility and equivalent treatment for the whole population should be indispensable. Health is a cornerstone of the welfare community. People have a legitimate expectation of safety that health services are in place with well-suited services when needed. Providing this security is one of the most important tasks of health policy. That is why it is so important that we focus not only on a high effort of common resources in the health sector, but also on common solutions, on common benefits, on the further development of a health service to provide good and equivalent services for the whole population. The medical-technological revolution we're in opens up too much new opportunities to treat diseases, injuries and suffering. It's essentially positive. But it also confronts us with difficult ethical issues and important value choices. At the same time, we must recognise that even with the highest priority, it is hardly possible in all areas to develop treatment capacity at the same rate as the technological possibilities for treatment. It will therefore appear almost as a normal situation that there is a discrepancy between people's expectations of the health sector and what they can actually offer. There will always be a question of more money for the health sector. The draft budget presented also makes that point. But it's not just a question of more money and, above all, not just a question of more money for the treatment of injuries and illness. More and more of the health problems that consume capacity in the healthcare system are preventable. There is therefore no doubt that we need to strengthen efforts in the field of health promotion, disease and harm prevention. The government's budget proposal provides for such a strengthening. In this context, the importance of strengthening the primary healthcare system comes. It goes without saying that the efforts and quality of this part of our health sector are essential for the population to have the best possible health care and for a better use of resources in the sector. In this context, I recall that it is now more than three years since Stortinget decided to introduce a fixed medical system in Norway. In the spring session this year, the necessary legislative decisions were taken to implement the decision. I am very pleased that the agreement on the contract work that is needed for the scheme to be implemented as from 1 June next year has subsequently been agreed. It is primarily through a strengthening of primary health services that we can also solve some of the problems that today characterise hospitals. Here too there will be a need for more money. The government's draft budget also involves that. But once again, it is important to stress that these are problems that cannot be solved quickly and with money alone. It is also necessary to implement organisational changes. They can be painful, and both implementation and results will take time. It is all the more important to get started and not try to postpone the problems by constantly giving more money. Many of our hospitals operate rationally and get a lot out of every penny. I must also stress that the large number of employees in the sector is making a great effort every day to maximise the results for an increasing number of treated patients. But there are also hospitals that are struggling with little rational solutions. The comparative studies of hospitals that have been conducted leave little doubt that there is much to gain through better organisation. These are tasks that the hospitals themselves need to carry out. I see it as an important task to ensure that hospitals are given the necessary powers and prerequisites to do so. In its draft budget, the Government has followed up the three health care action plans adopted by the Storting. This concerns the plan for equipment investment in Norwegian hospitals, the national cancer plan and the Roadmap for mental health. It's today the World's Mental Health Day. I use the opportunity to highlight in particular that we are going to follow up the ambitious eight-year escalation plan for mental health protection that a unanimous increase was adopted in 1998.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e50	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e53	Wide bets on health have been made, and is it also in this state budget, says the Minister of Health. I deeply disagree with that. There's been too little effort before, and there's too little investment to be made next year. However, that was not what I was going to ask the Minister of Health about. Maybe I should have waited until after the National Labour Party meeting, but I can't do anything to ask these questions now. It is known that the Minister of Health, in cooperation with the Labour Party’s management, has made proposals for the state takeover of hospitals. As far as I have understood, this will be adopted at the National Labour Party meeting in November. I am absolutely sure it will be adopted. I don't think a person like Minister of Health Tore Tønne would go out publicly with a proposal like this if there wasn't a secure majority in his own party. I am very pleased that the Workers' Party will also implement this time another of the major health policy objectives of the Advance Party, namely state acquisition. In the past, the Workers' Party has introduced input-based funding. And that's nice. My two questions go to the Minister of Health, and the first is as follows: Opponents of state hospital operations have proclaimed the frightful scenario that very many of the local hospitals will be closed if the state takes over hospital operations. Will the Minister of Health here and now demand that this be the case? Another thing that I wonder about is: How are state hospital operations going on in practice? Is that how I think you want to establish a hospital company or a hospital company where the group model is based? How many group models will there be in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e66	To the extent that someone has created the fright that by a state acquisition of a hospital it becomes a massive closure of smaller, local hospitals, I can here and now cancel it, as the representative Alvheim asks. With regard to the organisation of a future state hospital operation, first of all, I have to say that it is a very large project to implement such a change of ownership. There is one thing that we will of course come back to Stortinget with. If the representative Alvheim mentioned a hospital liability company, I would also like to say that it is an out-of-date issue for the Workers' Party and for this government to present proposals on public hospital companies. It has to do with someone thinking that this is an exclusive public responsibility. It may not be the subject of limited liability companies which may, therefore, also go bankrupt. I don't want to go into the model any further than to say that it is most likely that there will be a limited number of hospital establishments to which a larger number of hospitals will be organised.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e75	The government’s value profile has been called for earlier in the debate, but the draft government budget has at least the heading ‘A budget for increased well-being and fairer distribution’, and the Minister of Finance claims that this is a budget with increased commitment to the common good. Those are good words, but what are the realities? The Christian People's Party will pursue a policy in support of the weakest in society. ‘Many hundreds of thousands of Norwegian children live with parents with drug problems. These children cannot fail society,” writes the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. But what does the Government do? It provides for a significant reduction, not only in support of drug prevention but also in support of treatment institutions. It's not helping the weakest. It is better to prevent than to treat and the centre administration had a historical commitment to preventive health work. In addition to weakening the prevention of drug use, the Labour Party Government will also weaken support for work to prevent unwanted pregnancy and abortion. Nor is it helping weak groups. At the same time, we are being suggested cheaper meat and spirits, but not fish, fruit and vegetables. Is this what is increased well-being and fairer distribution? Is this an increase in the bet on the common good? The rationale for reducing the spirits tax is to reduce border trade and to bring the smuggling to life. Border trade with Sweden amounts to eight hundred litres of alcohol per year. population aged over 15 years. It's not alcohol people traveling across the border of. But there is a clear and acknowledged link between the price level and consumption of alcohol. This context is so clear that researchers can calculate how many new deaths will result in a reduction in fees and prices. Every year at least 1,500 people die from alcohol in this country. It has been suggested that the reduction in the price of spirits could lead to up to 300 more deaths. What does the Minister of Health think about the impact on public health when the Government is now going to weaken its commitment to preventive medicine, among others. reduce the prevention and treatment of drug damage and give priority to cheaper meat and spirits?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e86	It is also an important task in the context of health policy to contribute to limiting the consumption of alcohol. I would argue that implementing the proposed reduction in the alcohol tax is part of better control of the development of alcohol consumption in Norway. Today we experience that an increasing proportion of this consumption has to do with unregulated imports and other unregulated uses. We believe that what we are doing here is part of an alcohol policy that will help improve the ability to control and prevent alcohol abuse in the future. In addition, I believe that the budget also provides opportunities to strengthen prevention, including: through better coordination of child and youth psychiatry, drug consumption and social interventions, in particular targeting children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e93	When the Stoltenberg government took over, the renewal and modernisation of the public sector was presented as a main concern, not least the new Minister of Health represented a refreshing innovation in the organisation of the healthcare system. But what do we see in the census and in the first budget of the new government? Well, necessary health reforms, such as state responsibility for hospitals, have been put on a waiting list with 270,000 patients in need of treatment. So bad is that several municipalities, many of them workers' party-driven, have to take out private health insurance for their inhabitants. This says something about the belief in the government's ability to reform the health system, even in its own party. Patients on a waiting list need treatment, even if the Workers' Party continues to assess and is unable to decide what they want with the healthcare system. We have received a patient rights law to guarantee patients the right to the necessary health care within the limits of their capacity. The right considers that the patient’s need for treatment must be the starting point, not the capacity of the healthcare system. If necessary, patients must be offered treatment at private clinics or abroad. While we are waiting for the Workers' Party to assess the necessary reforms to increase health care capacity, my question to the Minister of Health is whether he will open the door to send patients to private hospitals or to hospitals abroad, so that they can be treated within a medically sound deadline.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e102	First of all, it is not right that the government's work on reforming the health system has been put on some waiting list. On the contrary, projects are being undertaken to separate both state hospitals from central government and to prepare to convert them into enterprises according to the State Enterprise Act. And as I have previously answered here, it will be further worked on the question of taking over other hospitals and making them independent businesses. It's a work that's already started, and that's going forward, and as I said, I'll come back to the Stortinget as soon as there's a basis for drawing final conclusions about it. Moreover, there is no negative trend in waiting lists compared to what was suggested when the Stortinget was about to split up before the summer. On the contrary, there is now a positive trend in waiting lists, although we still have to find that they are too long, especially those parts of them that do not have to do with the planned medical treatment. As part of the work to bring down those parts of the waiting lists that we characterise as completely unacceptable, it is already open today to carry out treatment in hospitals other than those where patients are on a waiting list. We are also working to improve the ability to carry out the proper treatment of patients who cannot be treated in Norwegian hospitals at acceptable treatment sites abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e111	I listened with interest both to what the Minister of Health said in his speech, and the Minister of Health did not say. Because in an innumerable number of interviews following the accession of the State Council of Tøn, the importance of state hospitalization has been clarified repeatedly by the Council of State. That theme did not mention the Council of State in a word. Despite the fact that this has been the subject of many interviews, the Council of State did not find it necessary to mention the major reform of the Stortinget in its contribution, but in a line exchange with the representative John I. Alvheim. To put it mildly, I find it alarming, because it is one of the biggest hospital reforms we have had for a long time, and for which the Minister of Health has become an avid spokesman. There have been promises of indebtedness to the county council if the state takes over, and even today we have heard that the health minister has issued a guarantee that it will not be put down local hospitals if the state takes over. With other state operations fresh in memory, such as mail, such as telecommunications, such as the defence of what is happening there, or the NSB, where we hear that trains stop at railway stations, but where passengers have to pay 500 kroner to get off, despite the fact that the train is standing still at the station and waiting for the opposite train, there is all reason to ask if the health minister's guarantees will be long-lasting. When we also see that it's only a few years since the state took over responsibility for the short-haul network, and that the government of the national transport plan already after a few years says that over the next three years, the structure of the short-haul network will be assessed and see if there is a need to maintain all of the short-haul airports we have, it seems that the durability date of the kind of guarantees is reasonably short. So my question to the Minister of Health is: How long does the guarantee now issued by the Minister of Health that local hospitals will not be closed?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e118	I must first be allowed to write in my inexperienced account that I am not able to calculate the time spent on five-minute posts so that I get my entire manuscript with me, but I can assure you that I had also submitted a brief explanation of the project that has been started in terms of both separating the current state-owned hospitals from the state administration and converting them into enterprises, and the possibilities to take over hospitals that are currently owned by the county council, and making them equivalent state-owned companies. So it's not the intention, as Enoxsen suggested, to skip what I also think is a very large and important project if it's to be fully implemented. And that's what I'm aiming for. As for the duration of guarantees, I think everyone will know that eternal guarantees that everything will last, there is little point in giving. What I answered about the question from the representative Alvheim was whether the state might take over the ownership of the hospitals to trigger a major closure of a smaller local hospital. That I think I can guarantee will not happen as a result of state acquisition. I don't think there's anything about what we can see today about the development of population or patient composition, which suggests any such development.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e126	I would like to address the same question that has been raised by many people, namely that the Minister of Health is calling for the government to take over the hospitals. Unlike several of the others who have been up here, I also see that there will be several arguments that could speak for a state acquisition of hospitals, just as there might be arguments for the other way around, that the county councils will continue to run them. What has been surprising to date is how little concrete the Minister of Health has been, in relation to the benefits this should have for patients, i.e. the extent to which the form of organisation will affect people most and in order to provide better health services. There is a lack of specificity on the part of the Minister of Health. But in order to help him a little bit on the way, I think it's obvious that the person who has a responsibility must also have a certain responsibility for the operation, could be decent, because today you can see that the Storting often runs from its responsibilities in relation to different action plans, and then the county councils are left with blackmail. We see the same in relation to the purchase of equipment. Where there is too little economy, there will be no possibility of purchasing new equipment, even if the state is to provide some partial funding. Drug expenditure could also be mentioned, where today there is an unfortunate difference between those patients who are not admitted to hospital and those who are, because there may be a lack of funds for expensive drugs in hospitals, while they are granted over popular security when not admitted, etc. But it's obvious that there's reason to look at the organisation of hospitals. What I want to talk about and ask the Minister of Health about is what he said about a state acquisition going to enter into a debt recovery for the various hospitals. If it is the case that, in the event of a state acquisition, a debt cancellation is considered for hospitals, why does the Minister of Health not see reason to reorganize that debt today? Is it the way to make the crisis the bigger to prove it useful in a state takeover?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e135	There is no time in a line change to review the many and different arguments for and against a possible state acquisition of hospitals, even as I would like to do so. But I would like to take the opportunity to say that some of the most important things, as I see it, are some of the things that Ballo also had to do, namely to bring together the responsibility in relation to the fact that there is a split between ownership and the responsibility for the financing of hospitals. I think we'll be served that this is being brought together, and it's at the seventh and last state that bears this responsibility essentially. I have also said that better organisation of hospital operations is important, and I think it is our job to facilitate this in hospitals and the management of hospitals. Then I also think it is important that hospitals are separated and made independent companies, with the necessary powers it gives to the directors and directors of individual hospitals. I would also like to point out that there are currently large and sometimes unacceptable differences between treatment provision provided by individual hospitals, even between neighbouring countries — differences that we cannot accept over time. I believe that a continuous owner will have both a clear responsibility for and greater ability to balance such differences. When it comes to the issue of debt cancellation, I don't think I have used any general term for such a settlement, but it goes without saying that in connection with the possible acquisition of hospitals from county municipalities, it is necessary to carry out settlements which also mean that the debt of county councils associated with hospitals is somehow settled and is transferred to the person who takes over the hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e146	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e149	On the right, Norway assumes that it needs an appreciation vision. We need to change today's passive vision of managing the petroleum industry to an active vision of making Norway a world-class knowledge-based country for innovation-based business, often represented by telecommunications and IT, and global energy, maritime and marine activities – a vision that suggests that the whole country is going into operation. This won't happen by itself, there's some premise we have to fulfill. We have to want something, and we have to be willing to do some necessary grip. I'm optimistic in this context, and given that we're making the right choices, I think this can be absolutely brilliant. In order to enable Norway to fulfil a vision of value creation, I believe that total R & D investments need to be doubled to the highest OECD level as soon as possible. This applies both in the private and public sectors. Opener limits on both capital and skilled labour will be critical factors that will strongly affect our own success. In the form of a crossword, I'll mention some other moments that I think will strongly affect our ability to stick to the legs of the business we're going to live off when the oil age begins to get less weight. And that's our responsibility already today in this Greatness to start laying the foundation for just this. I would like to mention the following five points: Norway needs, as I said at the outset, a vision of value creation. Other countries have done so and have succeeded. We need to become a leading and specialised knowledge nation. We'll never be able to get the best knowledge of the total width, but we'll be able to point it out, we've seen that through some Norwegian companies that are very skilled and actually world-leading. We need to focus the economic instruments on what is the future industries. Norway has to implement a plan for the liquidation of state ownership as soon as possible. And finally: We need to modernise the public sector. We have to do it, not just talk about it. What is the Government's response to this in both the throne and in the budget presented? The government is proposing tax increases that we have not seen since the Workers' Party alone had a majority in this Chamber. And in the old-socialist spirit, the value creation of businesses and the jobs of the future is being affected. The worst thing might be that it might look more like it's intentional. Both the Minister of Finance and Kjell Opseth, not least the spokesperson of business policy, have been quite clear: the public sector needs to grow. And to get this done, the government has decided to break the line of Norwegian business. The business cycle charge will force businesses to cancel people either by shutting down or by reducing their operations. Recruitment is not least to be made more difficult for innovation enterprises. The freed-up labour force will then be transferred to an increasingly large public sector, a sector in which the Government does not have the power to prioritise the most important at the expense of what is less important. Everything is most important! What the government does when it thus attacks the value creation of small and large enterprises across the country is to undermine the very foundations of the welfare society of the future. I would like to say that the government has short and good cases of the branch on which we are all sitting. Either the budget is a panic card response to record low galloping or there must be a knee trap for the left wing of the Workers' Party. In any case, it's first-class irresponsibility. Consequently, the Prime Minister's and the Minister of Finance's appeals for a responsible economic policy must be taken with a great deal of salt. The government seems to have forgotten that low price increases and low interest rates are only instruments to provide each of us with the necessary security in our own economy and to ensure the competitiveness of the business environment. Tax increases are at least as damaging to the competitiveness of industry as high inflation and a high level of interest rates. The economic policy of the Workers' Party and the Advancement Party is therefore no longer so different. Both will pursue a policy that weakens the value of competitive business and increases oil dependence. While the Labour Party deliberately weakens businesses through taxes and taxes, the Progress Party does so with increased inflation and higher interest rates. The result is the same, the choice is just slightly different. The Stoltenberg government is applying its new, aggressive tax policy on a broad front. The so-called short-term economic cost is in reality an increase in the employer’s tax of a total of 1.5 percentage points. The levy is applied to all private enterprises in all parts of the country, while government and municipal activities go free. The jubilee must therefore have stood in the roof of the Municipal Council when the State budget was presented. Thus, private enterprises face a competitive disadvantage which makes it more difficult to compete for public tasks. With the reduction of competition, public activities no longer have the same need to intensify themselves as in the past. The result is more expensive and poorer services for local residents. The proposal on dividends or double taxation on profits also affects business. First of all, it becomes more difficult to finance new projects. Thus, the Government undermines the value creation and income we're going to live on tomorrow. With the Government’s proposals, Norway will thus have Europe’s second highest tax rate on business investment. Only the Swedes are worse – and that’s something. But obviously that's not enough for the government. I have noticed that the Government is concerned about access to capital to Norwegian business. The husband of crocodile tears! Is it strange that it is difficult for both Nordics and non-residents to invest in business when they see what anti-business proposals are being promoted, and what conditions the Government intends to take? The government's proposal to set up a semi-state investment fund with a management capital of DKK 5 billion would be unreasonably strange when only next year's investment capital from the same business is to be withdrawn twice as much. State ownership has one of the worst track record of time to refer to. Nevertheless, the Government continues unrelentingly with the plans for a semi-state investment company, financed by the letting down of private business. The Government also proposes to introduce VAT on services. This so-called VAT reform means a sharp deterioration in the framework conditions for service-producing, competitive business. The proposal is particularly serious for the tourism industry, which represents an important part of the value creation and jobs in the districts. However, the combination of short-term taxes and VAT provides travel businesses with a double message that is actually going to be exciting to see developments. To say it briefly, do they survive? The electricity tax on industry is also a major blow to district farms. For my own part of the country, South Africa, this is very noticeable. In Kristiansand, the Canadian company Falconbridge estimates investments in these days of several billion. It will always be the alternative use of investment capital. And if Norway wins, we're going to be the best in this global start-up competition, it doesn't benefit from being top scorers on tax and tax increases. So what's the government's priority? First of all, more is allocated to the municipal sector and hospitals. The right considers it appropriate to give priority to education and health. However, increased investment in these key areas must not undermine the value creation and jobs that ultimately finance all public welfare. The public sector is already seizing a disproportionate proportion of the resources in society. Increased efforts at school and health should therefore be made by making better use of resources, by reducing public expenditure in less priority areas and by increasing labour supply. I'll finish where I started: I think the nation needs a cross-political vision of value creation for the future. I think that we will succeed in what one might call 'after the oil age', we must take some common promise and be willing over time to pursue a policy in this area. What we have seen in Ireland, Finland and others is that one of the success factors is stability in the framework conditions over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e211	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e214	Initially, the representative Gabrielsen gave a post that I thought had a song that made one perhaps forget the whole line. Because then there was the society of possibilities he described, and he wanted a vision of value creation. There's something that we might want to do. But it didn't go very long before the complaint sun came. Most of the contributions were otherwise a negative description of the state budget and the effects it has on business. I would just like to say that the biggest challenge for Norwegian business is to work together with the authorities to ensure that we do not constantly get interest increases, which not only imposes heavy costs on industry, but also on the individual and Norwegian households. Can the representative Gabrielsen really go in and tell their co-representatives how to operate in order to keep the interest in check, without causing one to tighten up, at a time when the economy is ‘overheated’? Is it true that the representative Gabrielsen thinks that this tightening should only be done in the private sector? I mean, the budget that's now presented is a way forward for business. But they must, in the phase that we are now in, where things are going very well, also be with and take their share.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e221	The replica of Opseth dealt with what is the biggest challenge for Norwegian business, for society as a whole, and not least for this assembly: to ensure that we do not get a continued increase in interest rates. To that I would just say that now the Right has been a budgetary partner in two budgets – not this year, but the two previous ones – which have helped us to have a falling interest rate. So, in the situation last autumn, the Workers' Party parked the allergy to the cash support, and this unfortunate agreement was made between the Centre and the Workers' Party, which has led to Norwegian business life, Norwegian municipalities and Norwegian households being charged billions in increased interest costs. Who has the best and the worst record in this area is far from interested in the future. I share Opseth's concern for the continued potential development of higher interest rates. And unfortunately, what I'm afraid of is that after a period like the one we've now had, with rising interest rates, it's often the way in the economy that then the price rise comes, and then inflation comes. I will not be surprised if we now get a price increase, not least in the light of the increase in interest rates that have arrived, partly as a result of the draft budget. What I can say, at least, is that Opseth, to the extent that he may be disturbed – which I don't think he is, he is too cold a fish for it – can relax completely in relation to the Right's contribution to this state budget as a result of interest rising. No one should worry about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e230	The representative Gabrielsen was also in the articles of the Advancement Party. We can go back a little in time: it is true that when the Business Committee dealt with the business report last year, it was the Workers' Party and the Advance Party that stood as guarantors of increased labour migration to Norway. The parliamentary leader in the Right also made a point of it in his main post today where he presented the Right model of free labour immigration to our country. I think the Workers' Party has listened very much to LO Secretary Liv Undheim, who has said that we must 'decline our own house' first. The progress party very much agrees with much of what Liv Undheim has said here. We have 70 000 unemployed in our own country. We have 66 000 part-time workers – very many women – who would have liked to have worked more, and we have three times as high unemployment among non-Western workers. Aren't we going to get them to work before we import even more? And we have very little flexibility in the EEA market. Should not Ted Hanisch and his people focus on greater flexibility in relation to the European labour market? Even if the unemployment here has gone down, there are millions to enjoy. I understand that the Right has not understood this with the brain-drain problem. Right wants to give billions of forced state u-aid to the Third World, but then they're going to hit the union workers. How are people going to build up in these countries if we knock IT engineers and health workers? I saw a statistics from Doctors without Borders the other day that showed that in Norway we have 16 000-17 000 doctors, while in some developing countries one only has a two-digit number of doctors of 4.5 million. Population, i.e. the same population as in Norway. There's distress, hunger and impotence. Where, then, is the moral aspect of the Right when it comes to craftsmen? And how are these countries going to build up?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e237	Number is too long
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e240	It is true what Hedstrøm says at the outset, that the Progress Party and the Workers' Party were shoulder to shoulder in the nutrition committee when it came to making the most of the efforts to prevent us from recruiting skilled workers to fill vacancies. That honor should Hedstrom have that he got Opseth on that very thing. Now it is the case that the Norwegian industry and the public sector have a massive shortage of skilled labour despite the 70 000 unemployed mentioned by Hedstrøm. And when Hedstrom starts talking about distress, hunger and hunger -- I don't know if he mentioned nudity in addition -- most people understand where he wants to go. What for the right is the main intention of what we're doing now is that if we don't do anything, we have so much labour shortages in this country that it will drive costs in the past in such a way that the entire competitive business is compromised. We saw a little thing down from my own county on TV this evening. Someone who needs an assistant at home can get it from abroad — a country outside the EEA territory. The municipality will finance, but will be refused. Are we going to do this? Should we have a situation where people don't get the needed help because you have some politicians who don't like the skin color? We can't keep on doing this. And if we're going to have a business life other than those who sit and manage our financial assets, we have to do something in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e249	I actually want to start by giving tribute to the Right-Representative Gabrielsen in relation to the last answer to the representative Hedstrøm. It was so that the government Bondevik, with Minister of Industry Sponheim, put forward proposals that could have led us to two years now being in the process of arranging these matters. This has not happened because of the decision taken in Stortinget on the initiative of Hedstrøm and the Labour Party. It's very clear what business itself says here, and all the reason why we have to do something about it. It was swinging over the representative Gabrielsen today. The Christian People's Party is in complete agreement that we need a vision of value creation, and like that this is based on a knowledge-based business in a knowledge-based society. I want to say that such a vision should also have a value dimension, so here we could perhaps only say that this vision should be based on good, old-fashioned Haugianism, easy value creation and the taking into account serious people's spiritual needs and the need for a moral journey in society hand in hand. So I thought it was exciting to be able to discuss that dimension. We in the Christian People's Party can also join the representative's wish that the whole country should be used, but then we have to ask: is the Right and the representative Gabrielsen willing to have an agricultural policy that takes account of the differences between the Jären and the mountain communities? Is the Right and the representative Gabrielsen willing that, at the same time as we leave the market to those who are in charge of broadband development, we still have adaptations that make it possible to access broadband, whether it is now in Setesdal or Mandal or Lindesnes, his own municipality for that purpose? And when we're some people say that the economic cost has to go away, once again, there are the poorest countries that are going to suffer, it's district agriculture again, or where will Right take the money?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e259	Now we must not, in a persuasion debate, reveal all the exciting moments. I understand that Lilletun and the center look with excitement up to the Right Alternative Budget, and that is of course very pleasant. Of course, I agree with Lilletun that you have to have something to live with, and then you have to have something to live for. Both parts are very important, you don't live by bread alone, and I think more and more people find out. I would like to say to the morals that politicians should perhaps take little care of themselves, but also there, of course, we have to contribute. But what are we going to do to make use of the whole country? What is at least certain is that this country should have business from Lindesnes to Nordkapp, it is the short and good framework conditions for Norwegian competitive business that are of importance. A billion or two from or to the municipalities cannot save this, with tax increases of DKK 10-12 billion for a competitive business that is essentially located in the districts. They're not in this area we're now, it's not where competitive business is. Here they have their group offices, production is going on somewhere else. What is district industry no. 1 into this millennium is the marine industry, aquaculture and fisheries and further processing. And what's going on is quite simple, as I said at the outset in my post in Stortinget, investing in R & D to get skilled labour and to further develop further processing. We have been a commodity producer in relation to Europe for a long time. Now we're going to develop and further process within the marine industries. So to agriculture. Yes, I'm going to take care of both the mountain and the Jären and everything between the sky and the earth, but we're going to spend between $20 and 23 billion in direct and indirect support for agriculture, and obviously we could have gotten the same qualities back for a much more reasonable money. And it is not necessary to waste good money after bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e270	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e273	‘A good transport service is important for both business and well-being in all parts of the country’, says the Government. In concrete terms, this has been followed up by the presentation by the Government of last Friday of the Annual Report on the National Transport Plan for 2002-2011. I am very pleased that the Storting's assumption of bringing together the sector-wide transport plans in one document is finally realized. For the first time, we have the opportunity to see the relationship between transport on the road, on the road, in the air and at sea in all parts of the leveling process. There has been an obvious weakness that we have not been able to do this well enough in the past. Here, there are hundreds of billions to be used for the benefit of society in a long-term perspective. The roads we build today, we're going to run on, and they're going to meet our needs in 2020 and 2030. I am pleased that the Government has chosen the strategies adopted in the document under consideration, including: road safety and commercial affordability have been raised. We see a commitment to railway and collective development in the metropolitan areas that are most required. In addition, there is a much stronger focus on operation and maintenance in the road sector than we have seen in recent years. I will not prejudge Stortinget's treatment of the transport plan, but I have noticed that the criticism from several other parties has been strong in the media. Some of this I think we'll find solutions to in Stortinget. But I have to say that I am surprised at some of the things that have emerged, especially when we see this in the light of what happened last time we dealt with sectoral plans for the field of transport – in the spring session of 1997. At the time, we were in a situation where the criticism of the plans submitted was perhaps even stronger than today. The centre and right sides merged on billions of increases both on the road side and not least on the railway side. But when the same parties joined together in budgetary conciliation the following years, it was not possible to trace the movement effort they had promised in the plan and in the election campaign the same harvest. I think it's more than me that have remembered this when we hear today that the same parties again require billions of increases in the field of transport. As a long-standing member of the Committee on Transport, it is, of course, easy for me to wish me even more money. But it's perhaps because I've been on too many budget procedures here in the house that I think it's much more important to plan at a level that actually makes it possible to implement them than to participate in a competition for who can think of the highest number. It has been claimed that the bet on the central strike is too strong. And that's right, it's in the central areas. But when we build E6 through Eastfold, it's not primarily for the people of Eastfold. The economy throughout the country benefits from such a commitment, and overall, the transport plan estimates that it will reduce business costs by DKK 20 billion. With regard to the districts, I believe that increasing operating and maintenance appropriations by over half a billion dollars a year in the road sector is as important as expanding new major projects. Not least, we know that the strong investment in fishing ports, lighthouses and fairways is measures that primarily benefit the districts. Finally, I would like to draw up an area that has come a little under the shadow of the debate on frameworks and road projects in the media after the transport plan was presented, namely the fact that every year hundreds of people die on our roads in traffic. Only to date this year have we lost over 250 people – many of them very young. This simply cannot continue. We are not supposed to accept that every day we will lose a human life on Norwegian roads. In the transport plan, the government has established a vision that no accidents with fatal or serious damage will occur on Norwegian roads. Unrealistic, some say. But what's the alternative? Is it the option to say to the relatives – to parents, spouses and children – that you have to accept this sadly, you have to assume that this can happen when you sit in a car? I am pleased that the Government has chosen such a zero vision, and I am pleased that this is followed up with concrete measures. We have to be willing to look at the speed limits, to do something about traffic training, to increase controls and at the same time search with lights and lights for measures that can reduce the accidents. I hope this will be a topic when we deal with the transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e294	The Official Journal of Bergen recently saw its income statistics for 1999 more closely at the Central Statistical Office. It resulted in an article entitled ‘The differences in Norway are decreasing’. Advisor Jon Epland of the Agency says that the difference between people is still greater than in the early 1990s, but that it no longer increases. He thinks it's too early to say that it's a lasting trend. The number of low-income households goes down. The main reason for this is that, according to Epland, the minimum pension was increased in 1998. The centre party went to the autumn of 1997 to choose to smooth out. We promised that we would redistribute by giving more to weak groups and slowing down the growth of the richest. We had been at the heart of the debate on social security settlement in the spring of 1997, when the proposal for an increase in the minimum pension of NOK 1 000 per year. month of travel. That's what Thorbjørn Jagland called «feeling». We followed up when we came into government. The central statistical agency’s figures and comments show that it was worth the effort! The government announces that the weakest will be included in the welfare development. It's an underline the center party is fused in. We are pleased that the Government says it will work for fair distribution and social smoothing. We still find reason to ask who the Labour Party defines as the weakest, and in what way they should be included. We will challenge Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg to tell more specifically how he will in practice work for social smoothing. Workerpartisan government’s proposal for the 2001 government budget gives us few clues to the anti-dithering message, a message that determines that differences are still to be reduced. The working party showed a large and constructive commitment to lifting weak groups when the Equalization message was handled in the Stortinge in spring. The bigger is the wonder when in the 2001 draft budget we actually find the same idea as before the message was processed. The notification clearly demonstrated the need for a more inclusive working life, but also a strong need for other measures. In spite of that, the budget looks like the Labour Party thinks the redistribution should take place within and between those who have income. Extra evil is this in view of the alarming high number of children who are disadvantaged – 70 000 poor children Folkehelsa has recently demonstrated. The Centre Party stressed in spring that there was a particular urgency in taking better care of children. We were busy putting holes in the security network that most people think are in place, but as the anti-sampling message shows, there are no openers. If it had never been proposed to tax dividends on shares, it would have been suggested if it was not for the distribution in the equalisation notice. Certainly, Sylvia Brustad has provided a basis for one of the main strategies, a more social housing policy. It is also a good idea to follow up the attempt to allow municipalities to distribute work to long-term social clients. At the same time, the funds for the drugs field are surprisingly reduced, and the households that already have the lowest income are not screened in relation to higher building costs, possessions and reduced child welfare. It is good that the government follows up the work of state guidance standards for social assistance. But deciding for the municipalities the ability to provide better services to their weakest ones is a municipal economy that allows them to prioritise. A good school, varied cultural services, safe health services and valuable care services are invaluable to counteract differences in the community. There is a serious scoring when Stoltenberg produces the municipalities as a budget winner, while the municipalities' own organisation, the Municipal Councils' Central Association, says they have more expenditure than they have been exposed to. New rounds of cut in existing supply will be alerted from that hold. The smoothing message obliges, not least when it comes to the framework of the municipalities, to ensure a stronger supply for their weakest ones. Right-wing leader, Jan Petersen, today failed to respond to the challenge of how he will meet the many spokespersons who are asking for increased frameworks to avoid cutbacks in the supply of hard-working people. I give the same question to Stoltenberg: where does he think municipalities that have for a long time streamlined and rationalized should cut, and what groups does he think it is going on?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e322	In the census, our involvement in KFOR was mentioned, and there is reason to stress that Norway's international commitment is more important than ever before. The conflict in the Middle East and recent months' events in Yugoslavia are examples of conflicts and events that require Norway's involvement, mainly because such events and conflicts require solidarity and commitment, but also because by contributing to resolving conflicts we contribute to making our own everyday life safer. The government continues to provide a number of ways to help stabilise the situation in the Balkans. Firstly, it is proposed to grant this area. Anyone who watched the last few days' TV images from Belgrade, and who knows what enormous suffering has taken place in this area, sees the need for active international involvement. Norway is now taking a leading role here. After Milosevic's fall and the election of Kostunica as President, this support is more important than ever. For the first time since the outbreak of wars in the former Yugoslavia in the early 1990s, they have the opportunity to build a stable and democratically oriented society. This is a moral responsibility that the Workers' Party is proud to participate in. Democracy and the safeguarding of human rights are the best investment we can make to ensure lasting peace. In addition to these appropriations, Norwegian defence will continue to play a central role in Kosovo. Our commitment and participation will be extended to the next year to lead together with Denmark the headquarters to the fifth quota of the Kosovo Force, or KFOR, with which we are more familiar, from April to October next year. It is a declaration of trust from the international community that we are asked to undertake this task, or as the head of the Norwegian KFOR Battalion, Colonel Hannestad, says in an interview in Folk and Defence Contact: «This is a feather in the hat and a recognition for what we stand for, both as a nation, and the job we have done down here». Leading a comprehensive international operation will, of course, face major challenges for Norwegian defence and military personnel. However, a Norwegian commitment will help to stabilise one of Europe's most troubled corners. In addition, this will contribute to enhancing the competence of Norwegian defence in international operations and will be an important contribution in European crisis management. This will ensure peace in Europe and make our everyday lives safer. The alternative could be a new conflict and a Europe that is once again being split. The Defence Committee was shortly back on its visit to NATO Regional Headquarters for the Allied Forces in Northern Europe. In our meeting with Commander-in-Chief General Joachim Spiering, we were given clear information about the importance of the task we have undertaken and how fragile peace in Kosovo is. There is no reason to believe that the change of leader in Belgrade in the near future will change the need for presence in Kosovo. Therefore, it will be necessary to expect that Norway and the other nations present will be there for a long time in the future. Our soldiers involved in peacekeeping and peace-building forces are also carrying out extensive social work among the local population, alongside the seizure of weapons, watchkeeping and patrols. The same applies to the sanitary forces which are also part of such task for KFOR. An example of this is the work that was done by the Norwegian field hospital in Bosnia when we were in SFOR. Between 1993 and 1996, there were 2,593 hospitalisations and 26,771 outpatient treatments, as well as more than 4,000 dental treatments. A large part of this was the treatment of the local population. This is an important part of the work done by our forces outside, to which it is worth supporting and giving honor. In addition to the defence efforts, it is also important to mention those serving in the United Nations police force. It must be a challenge one month to be a police officer on Henefoss, for then the next to be a UN police officer in Mitrovica, as the policeman Per-Aksel Lorentzen has been. In the future, the UN police will play a more important and important role, including: in the job of establishing a local police force. In other words, it is not just military presence that is our contribution. In the last two days, the Evening Post has presented some negative issues from the Chief of Defense's annual report released by the Defense Department. As is often the case before, the media presents the negative aspects and not a balanced picture. I have gained experience that the claims made in today's Evening Post that Norway is not equipped for allied management, and therefore should not have the competence to conduct joint operations in NATO, are not correct. Defence Chief Frisvold refuts this in a comment in the NRK today and says that Norway is well equipped to take on the task of leading the KFOR forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e349	The census included a desire for better quality, greater flexibility and new and better ways to organise the Norwegian school. Is really organisational framework measures the only government and the Labour Party able to talk about when it comes to Norwegian school? In my opinion, the Government and the Workers' Party must address the issue of quality in school and an equivalent training offer, and they must take it seriously. They should also make concrete proposals so that parents and students know what the party wants with their school policies. Or they may choose to vote in favour of the proposal presented by the Progress Party today. The organisational framework measures are only an instrument for achieving the required training, but have nothing to do with the quality of the training. Quality is based on the dialogue between teacher and student, with the transfer of competences taking place. Of course, the Progress Party sees that framework measures such as school building and educational material are important for a good school. Nevertheless, these measures must not be focused in a way that overshadows the important process. It must be wrong when an emphasis is on the organisation of school rather than content. If the school is given the opportunity to organise education in accordance with local conditions, we will have significantly better content and quality for both teachers and students. It is more than worrying that parents are not allowed to participate in the design of the good school. We haven't forgotten the Teacher Team's statement that parents lack competence to comment on the school and the teachers. As far as we have gained experience, there are many members of this organization who run School-Norway, both from the department and from the municipalities. The Progress Party will have a school that makes everyone equal, regardless of the private economy, a training where freedom of choice and adaptation to the individual user are put in the centre. The Party of Progress cannot accept that, for example: an autistic child must fight for eight years in order to have a diagnosis and an adapted training offer in relation to the diagnosis. Nor can we accept waiting times of up to two years to get a necessary assessment of the mental health of those schoolchildren who have clear needs. Nor do we accept that blind and feeble children do not receive teaching materials that they can make use of. This is only a small cut from areas where the government's school fails grossly. As long as the Workers' Party is only interested in organisation and framework measures, it looks black in terms of our children and the future. The solution of the Progress Party is individualised training. We're all different, we're originals, we're individual people, even though the state school is based on group ideology, where the membership of a group is more important than the individual children's needs. In order to obtain a training where the child is put in the centre, a few funds are needed where the money follows the individual child. At the same time, parents must be given the opportunity to choose the offer that is best suited to the needs of their children. Then we cannot have a system where alternative training is to be reserved for families with good finances, the so-called rich or better-adjusted. Equal treatment of public and private schools is important for the Progress Party. We made our own proposal on this last year, but in our view it has been necessary to promote a similar proposal again. I refer to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, no. 5, which emphasises both quality, equivalency and organisation. When one knows that the teacher is the most important contribution to quality, the teacher himself has to document his own knowledge and be patient with being enlightened by outsiders. Only then will we have a reliable assessment of defined quality. In the case of higher education and research, all of which are at the heart, the quality of these key services depends on the quality of basic education or even on the lack of this factor.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e385	Strengthening welfare systems is a continuous, hard work. The whole population has to participate in welfare development, and it can only happen if those with the most contribute. Therefore, the tax regime is so important. We want a fair distribution of healthcare, we want more health for the money, and we want more influence for the patients. In order to ensure health care for people as needed, the public administration must provide the allocation and where the necessary offers are to be made in the country. Controlling services also includes being able to control who has access to competent personnel. Increased child gardening is a necessary prerequisite for ensuring staff access. How can there be services for those who need treatment and care without parents in work? For example, without good school leisure arrangements, we cannot make good use of hospital equipment. When designing health and care services for a new time, we should not be afraid to change and improve where needed. The permanent reform is now in port. For the patients, it is safe that the doctor knows his patients well. With the firm agreement reached by the parties, I believe that in the short term we also ensure better medical coverage in small municipalities. The four new health laws come into force from the New Year, and everyone is free to choose a hospital. We need to ensure that opportunities are exploited by better information and overview of available capacity. Hospitals need to be better organized. They don't run as well everywhere. More money is needed, but not enough. Where equipment resources have broad political support, the next step will be more freedom of action and better priority in the hospital sector. A rational numbering solution is necessary and the business model has to be tested. The individual hospital shall have an independent position in which internal service production and knowledge development for the benefit of the patient must be the focus. The County and Regional Health Commissions have done a good job in ensuring a rational division of tasks between hospitals within their geographical responsibilities. This work must now be reinforced. The action plan for the care of the elderly is strengthened more than promised. The number of posts is extended by a further 5000. The investment rate may be increased in 2002 and the time to finalise the municipalities is assured. Follow-up ensures not only a trend to keep pace with the increase in the number of older people but also an improvement in the quality of care. The important psychiatry reform is followed up with specific operational reinforcements. Today, the World Mental Health Day is being marked throughout the country. Implementation of the plans of municipalities and counties is well under way. But the tasks are very large, so even at the end of the planning period in 2006, I think we will face challenges in the field of mental health protection. National cancer plan is continued and further developed. The welfare society is not completed once and for all, but must be constantly protected and improved step by step. It is ambitious to follow up such comprehensive action plans on such large tasks at the same time. The government must take and take the necessary steps in this large-scale public effort to ensure the further development of one of the world's best welfare societies. Being able to live safely at the prices you can afford is a good welfare policy. The precarious situation on the housing market, particularly in large cities, requires rapid action. For the many people who have problems getting into the usual housing market, it is important that the Husbanken framework is extended by NOK 2 billion. However, most importantly for most people, the policy of the State budget is to prevent an increase in interest rates. The working party and the centre agreed in the setting of the anti-dumping notice that the differences have become too large in Norway and that they now need to be levelled. We also agreed that taxation is an appropriate instrument in the distribution policy. The strong signals of fair distribution of the Trontale should therefore be a very good starting point for cooperation between the Workers’ Party and the Centre in order to correct social imbalances that have arisen in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e421	There's always a certain amount of tension associated with the languages of the throne. The government will, through it, make its perception of the state of the kingdom visible, the main direction of policy in the future, and the priorities on which it will base its work. This year’s census is in many areas a continuation of the central government’s priorities. Older and health reforms shall continue to be a priority in addition to education. The direction carries out bids for increased public sector investment, improved service provision through increased efficiency and improved coordination between public areas. The central government also had this as its areas of activity. But in some areas, however, the many visions and innovations that Jens Stoltenberg raised at the time of his accession on the renewal of the welfare society, the reorganisation of important social functions, changes in the ownership of hospitals and the partial privatization of Statoil are still small. This is not reflected in the census of the year. The Prime Minister’s visions of the future of a better Norway in all these areas were turbulent in internal disputes in his own party which had not previously endorsed the responses given to these challenges. There is reason to note that the Workers' Party has, in part, strongly criticised the central government for this, for example. did not clarify its view of Statoil’s future ownership structure early enough, and it believed that it confirmed a government without governance and action. The government of Stoltenberg took over responsibility in March. Six months have passed, and little or nothing has been done to support the debate on, among other things. The future role of Statoil. And we who thought this matter was so important to the Workers' Party. Now the Government is in a waiting position, hoping that it will have the necessary back coverage of its own national meeting to go the next step in a process that really requires faster answers than the Government has the ability to give. The Stoltenberg government came to power on a bad cause. In the wake of a strange political game, the central government went because it could not take responsibility for the environmental policy to which the bulk of the gas power was added. For the first time, we have experienced a government that chose environmental trust over taburettes. Unfortunately, we have to go back a long way to finding a census as free from environmental policy visions as this time. Having regard to the Government’s willingness to fulfil our obligations under the Kyoto Agreement, the word ‘environment’ is mentioned only once. To the extent that the Stoltenberg government wants to meet its objectives on Norway as an environmental policy priority country, as set out in the Government Declaration, it needs a completely different priority than what we have so far seen. There is little doubt that the man-made climatic changes are real. The leading scientific communities in the world strongly warn against the consequences of not taking these challenges seriously. The Kyoto agreement came about precisely on the basis of the recognition of the results of an almost global research environment worldwide, and on the basis of the understanding of climate change as a global problem requiring global solutions. Nevertheless, the Kyoto Agreement underlines the country’s own responsibility for its own national actions, where other instruments should be considered as complementary to them. So far, there is little evidence that the Government is taking the national challenges seriously. Reference is still made to quota purchases and flexible implementation mechanisms without the Government having so far drawn up plans for how to achieve its own national emission reductions. Given the need to make concrete results visible to Norway by 2005, it is worrying that such plans are not yet in place. In 1999, Norway stood at 19 p.m. above the level that we are obliged under the agreement to reduce emissions by 2010. It's in itself an ambitious goal. When the Government now wants to facilitate the construction of two gas power plants without any restrictions on CO2 emissions, the Norwegian position is further exacerbated. Let's add up to approx. 2 million tonnes of CO2 annually, and without any concrete proposals from the Government on how Norway will manage to reduce its emissions. Some have to pay for the free release of unlimited amounts of CO2 by gas power stations. Which motives underlie SFT not being involved in this process can of course speculate, but it is to hope that it is not the fear of SFT’s conclusions that is the real cause of the department’s behaviour. Climate policy challenges are formidable. Environmental policy is about safeguarding the living conditions of both present and future generations. It's about taking care of diversity, and it's not just about cleaning up the past, but also about building for the future. This requires ambitions and high objectives that this government does not seem to be in possession of.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e444	The census gave an overall picture of a well-balanced society. Well-being is at a high level, and most sectors are provided with reasonable economic frameworks. The budget and the census show that Norway, as a nation, has money on book. The problem is not lack of money, but how much can be used without the excess consumption causing side effects, such as higher interest rates, increased inflation and the loss of competitiveness of Norwegian industry. One of the main problems in Norway is that we spend too much money on operations and too little on investment. It might come out more clearly in the defense. If today's operations were to continue with normal wage and price developments, wages would take all the money on the defence budget in a few years' time. There would be no money for investment or ammunition. The fact that, in February, the Minister of Defence will present a long-term proposal for the period 2002-2006, which will be based on the FS2000 and the Defence Policy Selection, is good. It will be a demanding task for the Storting to shape the new defence from an invasion defence to a European defence policy cooperation to resolve international crises. In this transformation it is not only an economic framework that is important but clear and forward-looking political decisions. In my opinion, it is important to maintain the confidence of defence in Norwegian society. This can only happen by maintaining the general duty of protection and a defence that is present in all parts of the country. For the South and Western countries, it's just the Evjemo that the Army seems to want to keep, and I assume that it's placed there by the territorial regiments. I also believe that Homeland Protection is important in providing the Defense with a human face, and therefore, Homeland Protection should be strengthened. I'd like to comment on two things. They may belong in the finance debate, but I'll do it anyway. One relates to property taxes on power plants. When the Storting in the summer dealt with the matter, it was estimated that the power stations would lose approx. One hundred million. kr, and it was considered acceptable to all parties. Now, however, estimates around the municipalities show that the loss is much greater. It is now suggested that approx. 500 million. kr. For the sake of credibility, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance to look at the calculation on which the decision was based and compare it with the municipalities' calculations. The second case concerns the small boat register. I am glad that it is not a proposal to impose an annual boat fee. It has been said that the register will cover the annual operating costs, and they are estimated to be 13,5 million. 2001 kr. It is expected that it will be approx. 45 000 new registrations or re-registrations, i.e. 300 kroner in a one-off fee. However, I would like to ask the Minister of Finance to look at the operating costs, which include 24 posts, when the small boat register in Sweden is operated by two employees. Finally, a few words about transportation. Last week's drama around the NSB has led to problems in the East becoming a problem for the South, with the closure of the entire Arendal crossroads. It seems pointless when it's invested 100 million. kr in the last few years, and promise has been made that bank trains will come from summer 2001. Now it's closing down the whole line. I assume that we will come back to this in the transport debate when the matter can be addressed in its full width.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e462	I think Gunnar Halvorsen has just made a very wise contribution, which I hope the Workers' Party has listened to. I just want to suggest that instead of reducing the small boat register to two employees, like in Sweden, one can reduce it to zero employees and remove the whole law. It would have been a contribution to the simplification of Norway that had been good and had perhaps met some of the Kosmos government council's wishes. In his declaration of accession, he said about the government's failure if in no year's time the public sector had changed so that ordinary people could feel that their everyday lives had become simpler. Quite a number of boat owners would probably experience that the world would have gotten easier if you had got rid of the small boat register. That's how we as a nation face some very difficult dilemmas. We are in a situation, in the crossroads that economists have pointed out for many years that Norway will come in. Our oil revenues are high, while we need to build up new activity in business and in mainland Norway, activity that we need to survive when oil activity is gradually reduced, not only income but also employment activity. There are difficult pedagogical dilemmas to communicate to people. It's problematic to show that we have a lot of money, and that there are many things we still can't solve because we need to maintain the growth power and the creation of the Norwegian economy and secure the future of Norway. What's interesting is that just when it comes to those pieces right there, the government seems to have started talking for a long time in some way like we've done. I have many times heard Minister of Industry Grete Knudsen speak in such a way that you would think she was a Right-Representative. But then came the state budget we received a week ago, which shows that the Labour Party's policy is back to good, old-fashioned 1970s policy. The answers to this have exactly the same consequences as the Progress Party answers. It's going to push the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy, it's going to create problems for the future industries. The Labour Party only chooses taxes, and we can, according to Opseth and Grete Knudsen, cancel people in competitive industries if this industry cannot bear these costs. The forwarding party chooses the interest rate and does not care about the competitive industry either. The dilemma is to do two things at the same time: to provide for a development in the public sector that solves the needs, without dragging our legs under the part of our society that we're going to live on in the future. There's a lot of duality in the communication that comes from the Government. Grete Knudsen was in Bergen and launched a large-scale fund as a hand in hand with private business to secure investments and value creation and allow Norwegian players to participate in mergers and acquisitions. It was the one day. The following day, the leakage occurred that the workers' party government was going to introduce dividend taxes to reduce private capital and private ownership. Indeed, only those who pay dividend taxes in Norway, in accordance with the rules proposed, will be private capital. The State does not pay dividends tax. The non-residents will generally not pay for it. They'll be able to organize away. So it will only be private Norwegian capital that has to bear this. Similarly, the Labour Party government is pursuing a policy that provides a triple punch against women in the districts. The main private employment in districts for women is related to the tourism industry. There has been a review that women's workplaces in districts are important to ensure that we don't get an antiquated district Norway. So what's the answer? Yes, it is VAT on travel life services, it is an electricity tax increase that affects hotels strongly, and it is a business cycle tax that affects profitability. And if someone has a lot of employees and is labour-intensive, it's just the travel industry, and many of this industry's businesses have the worst margins in Norway. As far as the rural policy that the Workers' Party seems to be concerned. Then it does not help to spend a little more money on women’s start-up aid in District Norway – a couple of twenty million – if the main corner stone companies with jobs for women go dolls at the same time. Instead, women move from these areas to other places to get a job. Not all of these can be moved to the public sector. The most important thing for the Right in the future is to ensure that we manage the balance between the public sector and private growth capacity. There is a need to modernise Norway considerably. We do not think that what the Government said in the debate following the government statement is followed up either in the throne or in the budget proposed. There's no solution to what makes things difficult to modernise. We don't see any greater ability in the Workers' Party to tolerate more diversity and to have more confidence in those who work in the streets, out in the municipalities, because that's what it takes to modernise and streamline Norway. Even after three years ago, the Storting had a decision of principle that the county officials should only exercise legal control, and we were to reform Norway in order to do so, the municipal minister suggested in the draft budget that this year the county councilmen should now start coordinating housing policy, an area that at least the county officials have not driven anything particularly up to now. But they're getting new tasks instead of being taken away, which has been the goal. We have to stop doing some things if we're going to make sure that administrative resources are transferred to the service. Then the Small Boat Register is a good example. It's unnecessary to have straight away. It is also true that when we discuss the future of the county council and get evaluation reports on the table saying that county planning has failed, the answer should not be that we should strengthen county planning. If it has failed, and no one really has missed it, we should end it. Then a lot of administrative resources and many meetings would be unnecessary. Nor is it that if we want to add new and additional tasks to the House Bank, we will do so without removing any other tasks. It is okay that more attention should be paid to young people in the start-up phase, it has been suggested for a long time, but at the same time we have said that the House Bank must do something less. Then the House Bank has to stop being a general housing construction bank, but rather be an establishment bank, so that we not only grow in the public sector, but actually change it according to which tasks we have to solve. We also have to choose models that are administratively simpler than what we often do. There are now quite a number of examples for the municipal committee, for example. the complexity of the entire care package for the elderly. You can see that building very expensive new buildings is going to be economical for the municipalities because the requirement is 25 m2 of energy, instead of maybe having 22-23 m2 and getting a conversion. It's going to be wrong that it's going to cost the state over 100 million. kr, while it really gives users pretty little extra help and just a little bit bigger areas to be on. Then you have to find simpler administrative rules and get less detailed regulation. I was just in the municipality of Bømlo and met, among others. the health and social manager. She told me that one of the things that made her use resources was that she had to send almost the same reports to county councillors, county councillors and central bureaucracies on the efforts in the care of the elderly on one form, on the efforts in the psychiatry on another form, and on the efforts for the disabled on a third form. So there were three different bodies that were supposed to have them, and they couldn't coordinate their needs. Obviously, we can make these things easier. Perhaps none of these reports would have been necessary, but that one could rather have some supervision sometimes to see that the quality was good enough. I want to go back to a debate we had in March 1998. At that time, the Right promoted four proposals aimed at strengthening local democracy, which was the theme of the debate, but also at simplifying Norway. One was better coordination in the planning processes of the municipalities and the counties, that the opposition system had to be coordinated in such a way that not all planning processes were delayed. The follow-up of this happens very slowly. There is a public sample at work, but the public sample looks like it takes a long time before it comes. This is an area that needs to be put on the agenda again — to make the planning process in Norway simpler. We also proposed a review of all sectoral legislation with regard to simplification in relation to municipalities, so that some governance elements could be removed. We're still waiting for this to get really going. We haven't seen any results, no matter how many response programmes have come. We have also taken up a number of simplifications in several proposals, and we hope that this will be speeded up. The important thing is not just to talk about things, but to do it -- to do what you actually say. So far, I think the labor party government is talking about things pretty much, but it doesn't, and often it does the opposite of what it has actually said.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e493	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e496	The representative Erna Solberg, like the leader of the Right Party earlier today, expresses impatience over the implementation of public sector renewal. Some of us have previously been employed by private companies that have undergone large conversion processes. And my question to the representative Erna Solberg is: doesn't the Right also see that such processes depend on us getting the employees with us? Wouldn't it be the way it is in private companies that employees have to be included, and that it will take some time? I am not saying that the employees will get everything they want in such a process, but it is important that they are involved. So a question relative to the fact that the Right wants to use more tenders in the municipalities. In Denmark, we have seen that three-four nation-wide companies are completely dominant in such bidding rounds. And then my question is, how has the Right intend to avoid a private monopoly, because where does the effect of competition come from?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e505	In any case, there is more competition for having three-four competitors than for having nothing on offer at all and simply continuing as you have done. There are almost three-four large chains in the daily food industry also in Norway. I think that with three-four nation-wide companies in Norway, for example, in the case of care for the elderly, we could get a lot of fruitful and good discussions with them about both quality improvement and more efficient operation, and it would spread to the public. The biggest thing that might happen in the municipalities when they start doing something about tenders at all is that they go through a business they've almost never gone through in detail before, to see which tasks you actually have to do and what quality you're going to have. This process often leads to much better operation in the municipalities, even if tenders were not to be made, or the municipality itself has won because you have been through this whole process and seen where the bottlenecks are. In this sense, it's always a challenge. One always takes out the greatest efficiency gain at the beginning of a tendering process, if we've been doing it for a long time. The problem is that someone has given public employees – not just government employees, but government employees’ trade unions – veto rights in municipalities to start these processes at all, and it is the Workers’ Party, which Aud Gaundal represents. I agree that employees must be involved in processes of conversion, but employees cannot have a right of veto in the public sector when they are in a sector that is not subject to competition. At that time, we also need to put the users at the top, and as politicians, be willing to see that we have to make tougher changes because they have not been correcting the market that would otherwise be there. If you don't, you'll only get a growing public sector that will eventually become relatively inefficient.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e512	The Christian People’s Party is pleased that Right and Erna Solberg see their business difficulties. A simpler Norway and making it easier to start and run a business was a major goal for the government of Bondevik, and therefore a anti-business state budget is unacceptable for the Christian People's Party. It can't be so good for Right to think that they were a birth aid for the government of Stoltenberg. The Christian People's Party is also content that the Right will make it easier to open up for necessary labour migration. In the processing of the nutrition message a few years ago, such thoughts were absent in the Right, so there are new tones. In the summer, just after the municipal economic proposition had been completed, where the Right supported the Workers' Party's proposal, I heard that Per-Kristian Foss believed that the municipalities needed an extra 1 billion kroner. He didn't think about the teacher's decision, because it costs a lot more and should come in as well – I think we're a few about it. So here, too, there are new tones from the Right. Is Erna Solberg also of the opinion that the Right was too buttony with the municipalities in the first place? And should e.g. Austevoll, or we can take another municipality in the West, there's a lot of them, a few frames that correspond to the center that went into it, that's to strengthen the community economy by $1 billion?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e519	I am pleased that the Christian People’s Party representative recalled the programme ‘Simplifying Norway’, which also reminds me of the process of ‘Simplifying Norway’ towards the municipal sector. So, as I mentioned, in March 1998 there was a debate in the Grand Duchy on local democracy, in which we put forward a proposal for a review of all sectoral legislation. There was no need for that at the time, according to the local minister of the central parties. There was no need when we dealt with the municipal economic proposition about the spring, unfortunately the Labour Party failed the majority, so we were not ordered to do this further. In the autumn, we launched a new proposal in Stortinget to prepare a programme similar to the Industrial Law Committee programme with the municipalities and researchers as actors to simplify the agenda. The week before Stortinget was going to deal with this matter, the government turned to Bondevik and found out that there was a need for simplification in the legislation vis-à-vis the municipalities. They then sent a letter that they would start such a project. One month after the Storting had dealt with this, the package ‘Simplifying Norway’ came. – Just so we take with us the story of why and what has happened. With regard to the issue of the local economy, we are most concerned not to increase the costs for municipalities. When the municipalities are going to solve their problems, they're not just dependent on what transfers they get, they're depending on what they get for the money they have. And then there's always a question about the local economy, how much the transfers and revenues of the local government sector can be compared to prioritizing costs. And in the current budget, there is a strong need to reduce costs also for the municipal sector, not least in the charging system, in terms of electricity taxes and other areas, which may cause problems in the municipal sector that are propagating for poorer services. Then we can get into a discussion about how to ensure better space for action in the municipal sector, because that's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e526	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e529	Technological development, globalisation, individualisation and international competition pose major challenges for business in absolutely all countries. Norway relies on new value creation to build on the welfare state. We need to seize the opportunities offered by the new technology for future jobs and for well-being. We need to focus more on competence and creativity. We have to pledge ourselves as a research nation. Our country is simultaneously marked by contradictions at the entrance of a new century: We have one of the world's best educated people who will be further strengthened by the reform of continuing education. But we have a commodity-based business and are therefore vulnerable. More than half of our own young people take higher education, which exceeds most other countries, but as far as innovation, technology and knowledge content of our products are concerned, we are doing less. We are at the top of the world when it comes to the use of ICT and mobile telephony, but we do not have enough power to turn this into business. With our open economy, Norway is more dependent on other countries and is characterised by great fluctuations in our main export products. Nevertheless, we have chosen a different political course from our neighbouring countries in relation to our main trading partner, the EU. Both the state and an active business have resources, but we spend far less on research and development than our competitors. Norway thus has natural resources, financial strength and competences as few other countries. Nevertheless, there is a disparity between the instruments adapted to the traditional industrial community and the approaches we must take to the new knowledge society. And that's what the government adds up to. We need to focus on more knowledge-based business. We have to convert our traditional industry. Business policy and competence policy must merge. Business policy is knowledge policy, and then we also have to tear down the fences that exist between investors, businesses and knowledge institutions. With the eNorway plan presented in June, the Government will influence and accelerate ICT developments in Norway. This plan is an action-oriented document with clear instructions on what needs to be done, who is responsible and when the measures are to be implemented. The aim is to create a green knowledge economy and an information society for all. In order to increase value creation in the coming years, we need to strengthen public engagement to support innovation and internationalisation in business. We're too small to be good at everything. With regard to the use of research funds, it may therefore be right for a small country to invest specifically in certain industries, certain clusters of nutrients, where we have a good home base, which the government also does. There are many examples of Norwegian capital environments being either too few or too small in competition with foreign capital, but we cannot remedy this by adding more capital to the existing instrument. Private and state capital must find each other in new ways – as we see other countries doing – and work together to create new businesses. Public instruments are not well adapted to meet the challenges of a knowledge-based society in the face of up-to-date development. Businesses, research environments and financial environments need to assume a responsibility for working closer together not only here at home but also outside. We need better coordination of the tools at home, both for the Norwegian Research Council, SND and the Swedish Export Council. Small and medium-sized enterprises must ensure access to seed capital and incubator support in critical phases. Recently, I received the report after the thorough evaluation carried out by the Ministry of Industry and Trade by the SND instruments, and until spring, the Government will also provide a big message about the SND. Today's businesses are more demanding, and they go where they see that they can get good support. It is therefore time to recognise that municipalities also have to face tougher competition in order to develop, maintain and attract businesses and their employees. We need an inclusive business! Adequate availability of skilled labour is a prerequisite for success in industrial policy. The government takes the signals from the industries seriously. I want to challenge the business community to take full advantage of the Norwegian workforce. In Norway, through kindergarten development and maternity leave, we have succeeded in combining both work and family. If we are to be able to lift Norway into the knowledge society, we must use all hands and heads. But no one can get out of the community and make a joint contribution. It's just the talk of the throne.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e584	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e587	The previous government established in the summer of 1999 a programme for a competitive Norway. The current Minister of Enterprise Sponheim wanted to help small and medium-sized enterprises, especially by reducing the form field and the registration obligation for our enterprises. Yes, he even made the promise that if the government got a seat, within two years, it would reduce the business form load by 25 pst. They managed to reduce the form field by approx. 6 per million, and I've calculated that if you were to keep going at the same rate, it would take 360 years to reduce the form field by 25 pst. I know, however, that our new Minister of Economic Affairs picked up the thread from Lars Sponheim, and as far as I remember, she called her program a changing Norway. But lately it's been very quiet. It is now likely that the Business Committee will have the Brønnøsund Registers as its responsibility. I've been looking at developments in forms there, and it seemed somewhat worrying, so I should like to know what status is in terms of the new government's work on reducing the registration obligation and the form field for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e594	After the strong promise made by the former Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, I said when I joined them that I would not go into it. But we had, when we were in government last, started a project together with both the Municipal Councils, the Municipal Councils and a number of municipalities that wanted to do something about their situation in order to change the relationship with business. That document was submitted last week, a business-friendly Norway. The six municipalities can show that, through research and active cooperation between the business community and the individual municipality, both case preparation and proceedings in the construction sector, etc., have become much easier. This whole work is also part of the programme managed by the Council of State Jørgen Kosmo, as well as the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Employment and Administration, and forms a secretariat to coordinate what we all have to do with this job. I have challenged several municipalities to go into exactly the same thing that we now have very good experience with. At the same time, what I said about my accession, and as a matter of urgency, is that we need to increase the knowledge content and increase the technology content of our products, because here, as a nation, we are also far behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e601	I would first like to congratulate the Minister of Industry on the way in which it integrates knowledge and knowledge into industrial policy. It is absolutely necessary, and I fully share the view when it comes to that integration, that knowledge policy is as important as classical industrial policy. I'll go below that. Nevertheless, I have some critical questions in relation to the government's policy in this area. The Hervik selection should in a way contribute to a new give in the area where there is the greatest shortage in the field of research, i.e. business research. Here it's 2 million. kr in the case of higher education institutions and universities. That might be good. But at the same time VAT coatings are a mission research, and then it almost goes into it. And on the tax-incentive side, as the Hervik selection had as its main suggestion, there's nothing, and there's no prospect of anything coming. Here I could comment on the quotation in quite a large amount in relation to the challenge of the current Minister of Industry to the former government, that it should be submitted from the Hervik Committee already in the revised national budget. So now it's not even in the state budget. What's your view of it? Is this seen by the Minister of Industry as a follow-up to what Stortinget has said? Equally: Technological development is important within the ICT page, but equally important is the implementation of ICT in classical industry and business. How, then, can one halve the budget of the Institute of Technology and VINN? Furthermore, I would like to know the Minister of Industry's view of the employer's fee, the cyclical charge, which is being introduced. Is it the competitive business that's going to be the hardest frame of it, or is it the business screen? And what are we going to live on most after the oil and gas times?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e613	Yes, there were many questions here, but first for research. From March of this year until now, the Government has added an increase to the Research Fund from NOK 3 billion to NOK 7 billion. It's not a little in the few months. At the same time, it is quite right that the Government does not make a proposal on tax deductions, tax incentives, for business to conduct research. We also believe that this is wrong. We believe that it will be a difficult control system. Is it the tax authorities, or who is it that is going to check whether they are actually using the money for business? But we're going to set up a system that, as far as possible, should be a regulation that allows companies, if they cooperate with the research institutions, to be able to meet their costs by 25 pst. And we're starting that arrangement from July 1st next year with 200 million. kr. We believe that it should provide incentives and inspiration enough for the companies that want to work with research to do so. In addition, there is also a commercialisation of research results in marine research of 90 million. kr. With regard to VAT and business cycle taxes, I understand that the representative Lilletun is concerned about this, but then the answer must be: Where else do you have to cover all the expenses that the representative now stands here on the platform and actually wants to increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e625	The representative Hedstrøm had in his reply a calculation of how long one would have to last if one were to have Sponheim's pace in terms of reducing the form field by nearly 25 pst. It was 360 years old. Then several of us who are present would be quite well up in the years, so it's about getting a slightly different pace at it. But what was my concern and area of interest in this regard was that the Council of State said that safe access to competent labour will be crucial to success. I very much agree with that. And one of the challenges we may be facing is to provide skilled labour in both the private and the public sectors, so that we in the public sector can do the welfare tasks that we agree on, and so that the private sector, the competitive business, can have access to the labour force that can generate the income that we all need. In connection with the business message we discussed in the spring, the Progress Party and the Workers' Party were united on the formulations that were adopted to stop the more liberal attitude of the Bondevik government towards labour immigration. Now there's several other ways to do this. We probably have to attack along several fronts in order to succeed. Now it is the case that Kjell Opseth, a spokesperson of the Workers' Party, pointed out in Saturday, October 7th, that if the industry does not tolerate these historically high tax and tax increases that have been proposed, they would rather quit. I would like to ask the Council of State for Economic Affairs whether she agrees with the party's political spokesman that if this industry cannot accept these historically high tax and tax increases, it is free to build up the competitive sector. Is that the Government's attack angle? And what, if any, is the Government's attack angle if she did not agree with Mr. Opseth?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e636	The representative, Gabrielsen, has also spoken earlier today about the need for skilled labour and more competent labour, and has shown that there is, among other things, in the Stortinget. The working party that has prevented this and that nothing has been resolved to increase labour migration. In the spring, I myself was on the Education Committee, where we just opened up to recruiting skilled workers, while in the Justice Committee there were also changes in this field. Then it became, among other things, in the position of the Committee on Justice, Health and Social Affairs and the IT sector. And I agree with Ansgar Gabrielsen that this needs to be followed along several lines, both on the specialist side and at the initiative taken by the Government in terms of so-called skills cards to increase the pace of an area where we lack skilled labour within some fields. But that is what both the Education Committee and the Justice Committee have set up. So to the last question, about the short-term cost. In the early 1990s, we reduced the so-called employer’s fee by 2.6 pst. Then there were many who took the wave for it. Now we're increasing by a business cycle fee of 1.5 pst. We just don't really get into what was in the early 1990s.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e643	Let me start by giving a little commendation to the Minister of Industry: it was liberating to hear a Minister of Industry talking about something other than form fields and the problems that industry has with completing the form. The Minister of Industry said we should lift Norway into the knowledge society. It's going to be wrong. We're already in the knowledge society, so the question is how to develop and relate to this knowledge society that we have. Grete Knudsen was, before she became the Council of State, the head of the Church, Education and Research Committee. During her period, this committee and the Stortinget dealt with important messages in education, primary and secondary schools, and not least a research report. And then it's natural to start with it. We already have a budget, and although we are not going to discuss the budget now, it is still there as a reference for this debate. And then I have a basic question for the Minister of Industry, based on what the Workers' Party has stood for and what Grete Knudsen has previously been involved in in research. Norway is going up at the average OECD level over five years, it has adopted the Storting, and we know what is in the budget for research efforts. Then there's a natural question for Grete Knudsen: does she feel that with what's lying there, we're on our way to fulfilling the goal we've set ourselves? My claim is that if we are to follow the scheme that lies there, it will take at least 15 years – 15 years – to reach the level we said we would do in five years. This is a very serious matter, because it is in this area that we are going to develop new products. It's through research we're going to develop new products, it's through research we're going to improve our production techniques, and that's how we're going to improve our competitiveness and our competitive advantage.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e654	I fully agree with the representative, Mr Reikvam, that we already have a knowledge society. We also have a highly educated population, where many now take higher education. What has been presented in the education budget is a continuation on both the education side and the research side. In addition, I mentioned the Research Fund, which in very few months has had a large increase. In the area for which I am responsible, there is an increase in research of 20 pst. It hasn't been before. That means we add up to be able to give 25 pst. the coverage of research activities carried out in industry. We're increasing space technology, we're going into environmental protection and biotechnology, to mention some of the areas. In addition, research efforts are being made by the other Ministry of Economic Affairs. Among other things, there is cooperation between the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Fisheries and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. shall commercialise the marine research results by 90 million. kr. In addition, absolutely all the instruments of the Ministry of Industry and Trade have clearly stated that the main tasks are competence, not traditional support schemes, but competence, technology development, development and research.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e663	This cord change has been reflected in the fact that far from all the questions have been answered. Here are a number of questions that I could also imagine getting an answer from the Minister of Industry. The first was a question asked by the representative Hedstrøm to the Minister of Industry about the form field, if the Council of State wanted to do something about the form field that exists, about the so-called Change Norway, if you want to do something there to reduce the number of forms. My question to the Council of State will be as follows: does this Council of State intend to ensure that the number of business forms in this country will be reduced so that business leaders in Norway can use the day for other things? That's the one. The second was an answer to the representative Lilletun in connection with the economic cycle charge. The Council of State said that it must be used to finance the other measures, such as: Mr Lilletun wanted to be financed. Then my question is: is it a business cycle fee the Council of State is talking about, or is it simply an increase in the employer's fee, which it clearly bears the mark? Then there was another question that has not been answered either, and that I could imagine getting an answer to. It also applied to the economic cycle charge. Who is the most affected by this cyclical charge? Is it not a competitive business, for example: in regions with small and medium-sized enterprises that are now really going to have a more difficult everyday life?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e674	I believe at least that the representative from the left said that this reduction in the form field of the previous government had not been so good. And what I said when I started was that at least I shouldn't give any corresponding promise until we could show that we could also do something about it in action. And that's what we've actually done by the fact that the municipalities that are now involved in business-friendly projects are doing this in practice by the fact that the business community and the municipalities are working together. And this is paid by, among other things. Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. The business cycle fee is to be considered as part of a total package, the purpose of which is to provide us with financial space to solve other priority welfare tasks within the framework of a neutral budget. Because in case you choose to increase something on the cost framework, it would probably lead to a worse situation for business. And in a situation where most of the Norwegian population want us to do something for well-being, want us to do something about older people's policies, want us to do something about education policy, our answer is that no one can break free from the community, and that it's through joint contributions we build well-being, we build business policies and we build this country. This also applies to business; the person who has the strongest back must be involved in taking it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e681	The cord shift is over. The President wishes to stress that the representative Harald T. Nesvik is a member of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e686	First of all, I would like to thank the President for clarifying that misunderstanding, that he is from the Progress Party, and not from the Left. All political parties in this room have expressed great concern at the developments that have taken place in the number of new persons who are being disabled in Norway. There has been a marked increase in new cases in recent years in which people are no longer able to feed themselves on labour income because their health condition makes them unable to take on a normal job. The reasons are many, and this is a composite group. All politicians talk about the importance of rehabilitation, but the question is, is it really enough in this field? We can read in today's World Times that the CatoCenter, who has been praised for its rehabilitation of traffic damage and young people, is now afraid that the Government has given them the death blow. The Centre is concerned that they have not been recognised by the State as a public health institution with reimbursement rights. State Secretary Lars Erik Flatø says in the same article that no such approval has been provided in the context of the State budget, but one wants to assess the application independently of that budget. It may not be too much for such an application for authorisation to be dealt with promptly, so that the Centre can plan its operations in the future on the basis of whether or not they receive this authorisation. The Progress Party is concerned that patients benefit from the rehabilitation, which is to trigger a public refund. The Progress Party will therefore make proposals in the context of the examination of the State budget that an authorisation will be granted to CatoCenter if this government does not soon take the sense of taking the prisoner and granting this approval. We cannot put the CatoCenter in the situation that they are going on in the uncertainty about the outcome of this case and thus are unable to plan next year's operations in a reasonable and appropriate way. If we're serious about our statements that we really want to help people get back to the most normal everyday life, one can't deprioritise such rehabilitation institutions as the CatoCenter is. Instead, one has to take another step and look at the additional measures that need to be taken to help people in a difficult life situation. This is to allow the training institutions to obtain approval for the number of places for which they have the capacity, but also to ensure that sick people have access to the most effective medicines at an affordable price, and that hospitals are given the best and most effective equipment to treat patients, so that patients do not wait too long for an operation and are thus diagnosed longer than should be the case in one of the world’s richest countries. We have all read about and brought with us examples from the health care system that people who need a small operation instead get sick over a long time because they stay in a long queue and wait, for example. on a simple knee operation. I now hope that this government will take the initiative to approve, among other things. CatoCentered, so that they receive public reimbursement for the treatments and rehabilitation they carry out.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e701	The aim of the Workers' Party is to implement what may be the largest conversion project ever launched in the public sector. We're aware that you don't just get good friends to start and implement conversions, and to succeed, we depend on getting ideas for useful improvements. We need upsurge and drag help in the renewal work, and we need the employees and the trade movement as good and constructive support players. A strong public sector shall be able to convert and renew continuously. It is necessary to keep pace with changes in society nationally and internationally. Had we been able to start today with blank papers, could have been based on the tasks that we in today's society are supposed to do, the administrative apparatus, the legislation and the systems would have turned out to be the way it is now. We don't have the ability to start off with blank papers, but we can go through the structures and systems we have built up critically and change them in relation to the needs and challenges we face. In the focus of everything we do, users should be in the first row. If we fail to renew in line with changing needs, the public sector will easily become discredited by most people and users in particular, and then it may be inevitable that there will be sudden and painful shifts for both employees and users of public services. Among other things, we must: continue the work of establishing public service offices locally, so that they can be service-set up and coordinated in the first line service for both government and municipal services. We are also going to continue what is being done by simplifications of forms and rules. This is of great value to business, especially small businesses, but also important for the individual’s meeting with the administration. With new technology and more transparency in administration, users require unnecessary forms to be removed. The Minister of Industry has given a good account of this work. We need to continue working on service statements. We'll never be able to meet all the demands of the public sector. Then it is important that the municipalities make service statements that show what the municipality offers, and ensure that people get the offer that the municipality has promised. Each manager and employee of each public undertaking shall be able to take part in the renewal and be responsible for improving the performance of users. We must have the courage to remove unnecessary arrangements. We need more flexibility and appropriate arrangements. In this debate, it will take place from among others. The right-wing leader said that there is nothing about the renewal of the public sector in the budget. It does. Jan Petersen can read in the Ministry of Labour and Administration’s budget, page 17 and beyond. We must also bear in mind that the deadline for the hearing of the Task Distribution Committee has been set at 1 November. It is okay to be impatient, it is also the Workers' Party, but if this process is to succeed, it must be done properly and be thoughtful proposals. We must also remember that in many municipalities good processes are being carried out that will result in better services being provided. The renewal can also be directed not only at the system as such, but must also include better exploitation and development of human resources. We need to stimulate more use of networks and project organisation, including across sectoral boundaries. And unlike the Right and Advance Party, it is important for us in the Workers' Party that the employees and their organisations are at the heart of this development.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e725	I don't want to pretend to be a fortune-teller, but I think, however, I can predict that many of the lobbyists in Stortinget this fall will have unsolved transportation projects with them in the suitcase. This is, of course, due to the fact that the national transport plan is being examined in the Committee in parallel with the budget. I am also convinced that very many of the lobbyists are business people who are involved in developing industrial transport infrastructure. The economy in Norway buys transport for about 45 billion kroner a year. It's going to be 8 pst. of the total costs of business and has a significant impact on total value creation, profitability and productivity. Furthermore, countless meetings with people who are concerned with transportation have taught me that it is not just about a tunnel, a know-how or a new ferry. It's about human welfare, it's about the right to escape the fear of race, it's about the right to communicate between people, it's about the right to urban and rural development, and it's about important human values. Transport policy is a broad-based value policy. A knowledge hub, a tunnel or a new berth represents important values for people waiting. Path trigger turns to value trigger. In the Christian People's Party, therefore, we are very surprised that issues of communication were overlooked in silence both in the Common Era and in the Financial Speech. It cannot be interpreted as anything other than a sector down-priority. Minister of Finance Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen seems to have forgotten his blazing debates from his time as a spokesman for the Workers' Party. It's only been a few months since he gave the centre government the smooth layer, and now we're going to deal with a road budget from the workers' party government, which is characterised by the Road Traffic Information Council as the worst in 20 years. In the budget debate on 9 December last year, Mr Schjött-Pedersen said the following: ‘The transport situation in the metropolitan area is the main transport policy challenge we face’. It is true that we have major transport policy challenges in the central part of the country, but it was unexpected that the government of Stoltenberg would neglect the districts to the extent that the national transport plan now provides. Let it be quite clear: the Christian People's Party cannot accept the distribution policy that the Workers' Party proposes in the transport sector. For several years, North Norway has suffered a dramatic decline in its transport appropriations, and this year's draft budget indicates a new level of revenue! If this distribution of means of transport is to be renewed in the long-term planning we are about to implement, I am afraid that this will seriously impede the development of the industry we see in fisheries and aquaculture in the coming years. Let me give you an example: in the Hålogaland region, Narvik has evolved into the communications center. Ports, E10, E6 and Ofotbanen have made business turn on urban development opportunities. A common traffic hub is being worked on, but it is a problem that the NSB, which has been a driver of such solutions in central Europe, does not see the importance of this in Narvik. Arctic Rail Express – ARE – is in a very good trend. The ARE trains carry large quantities of goods between South and North Norway, and started in autumn weekend trains with fish to the continent. Over the course of six months, the NSB will expect freight by transporting fish directly from Narvik to Paris and Verona. There are significant environmental benefits in transporting fish to Europe by rail, but then Narvik is located in North Norway and not in the central eastern region, where there are many people living. Therefore, priority is not given to the feeding years to Narvik from the Lofoten and the Western Sea, where the fish are caught. A semi-complete continental connection to Lofoten – Lofast – has been pushed into the dark in the proposal for a national transport plan, and the necessary E6 racial protection towards the city is also not a priority. Here we have a good example that transport policy and industrial policy are two sides of the same coin. Business needs for good infrastructure are likely to be too low today in the cost-benefit models used to prioritise transport projects. The estimated travel time for persons is given relatively high in the cost-benefit analyses, while the time value for goods is set at zero. The Christian People's Party wants to look at the content of the food-benefit analyses used in the transport sector. During the examination of the national transport plan, we will focus more on overall regional and district policy considerations. We are convinced that robust housing and labour market regions in the districts will trigger a high value creation potential.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e763	It is gratifying that more than 2/3 of the United Nations Member States recently voted in favour of Norway in the UN Security Council. I would like to express my great gratitude for the considerable effort that has been made over time by many, including the previous government, to ensure Norway's success. This has been regarded as a national task, to which His Majesty the King and the Queen have also made a significant contribution. Norway has everything to gain from working for an international society based on international law and committed intergovernmental cooperation. Norway will work in the Security Council to help eliminate the underlying causes of violence and armed conflicts. We will work towards a broad security concept covering conflict prevention, human rights, development and environmental and resource issues. Only then can we help to give people suffering from war, poverty and mismanagement a legitimate hope for a new and better future. I will give a more detailed and thorough account of the Stortinget in the middle of next month on the political platform and strategy for our membership of the Security Council. The situation in the Middle East is very serious. Many are now working on bombs to prevent a major conflict. I am pleased with the broad support the Government has in Stortingen for the line that has been followed, even after the unrest began. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working in the Norwegian way, which has become our trademark: we are trying to play a constructive role in the quiet with the parties, listening and not condemning, and we are promoting proposals that can unite and not split. Norway is in constant contact with the parties, and we coordinate our advances with Kofi Annan's efforts to achieve a truce. I still have a legitimate hope that it will be possible to reach a negotiated solution to the Middle East conflict in accordance with the Oslo agreement. In the last few days, we have witnessed a peaceful revolution in Yugoslavia. Norway has been an important supporter of the democratic opposition in Serbia for a long time. We have contributed to support for a number of targeted actions in close cooperation with key opposition groups. In silence, we helped to build a computer network that made it possible to reveal electoral fraud – which was crucial for overturning Milosevic. In my conversation with the new president on Saturday, he stressed that Yugoslavia's economy is in ruins, and that the country needs foreign aid in a transitional phase. I confirmed that Norway is ready to provide financial support to Yugoslavia. I also informed that I have already taken the initiative to include Yugoslavia as soon as possible in the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe. On Monday, we partially lifted the sanctions against Yugoslavia. I want to say this: it was as if the 20th century in Europe had found its end last Thursday, this century that has been marked by so many wars, disasters and massacres caused by authoritarian and nationalist regimes. Milosevic's rule was the last remainder of the 20th century's tragedies in Europe. I am glad that the Europe of the new century is affected by the opposite. NATO enlargement and EU enlargement mark the commitment of European countries to cooperate in both security and economics. I am pleased that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy supports these extensions. The parties that opposed Norwegian membership of the EU have also given their support to EU enlargement. This must mean that one cannot imagine a Europe without the EU. As the evolution in Europe progresses, it will be an important task for the Government to ensure that in the years to come, Norway has a space for action in terms of its relationship with the European Union. However, if membership of the EU is once again on the agenda, it will not happen until we face an enlargement of the EU, and when one has a clear and stable majority of the Norwegian people who want such a development. A positive attitude towards Europe also underpins another important part of the Government's foreign policy, namely our desire for an even better relationship with our neighbour in the East, Russia. Finally, I would like to stress that it will not be possible to solve the major environmental problems associated with nuclear weapons and nuclear waste without being able to engage Europe as a whole, not least the EU. It underlines that our active attitude towards Europe and our strategy towards Russia are two sides of the same coin.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e780	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e783	As a reflection on the last speaker, I would say that we should perhaps spare the very great enthusiasm for what has happened in Yugoslavia, until we see what is happening in Bosnia, Kosovo and Montenegro, and what will happen to one of the greatest war criminals of the last century, Milosevic. Moreover, I have noticed that the changing governments have granted billions to the Palestinians under Arafat's control. It has certainly not escaped the attention of Amnesty International to the marked violations of human rights in the state of Arafat, and to the fact that it is in no way democratic. The school books of the Palestinians are filled with hateful attacks on Jews and on Israel, and have clearly laid the groundwork for what we see today. Does not the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that it would be more obvious that the rich oil states that have made it impossible for these refugees to be integrated finance the Palestinians? If they do not, I think it is more obvious that those who are particularly interested in oil imports from the Middle East pay this bill. So I can't understand this priority. A lot of people are hurting the world. Why do we have absolute responsibility down there? It is more relevant to ask questions based on what is happening in these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e792	I must almost say that this underlines the very narrow perspective of the Progress Party on policy. When it comes to Yugoslavia in the terms that were now made, I must stress that then the Progress Party is completely on the side of what everyone is talking about in the democratic world. It is clear that there are major challenges to Kosovo in relation to Montenegro and Bosnia. But I think everyone agrees that now you really need to underpin the opportunities of the new board to establish and bring this country in the right direction. This would be a relief for the whole of the Balkans and for the whole of Europe. If the Advance Party wants to stand on its side, it gets to be the Progress Party's own case, but then you stand in contrast to almost everyone on this whole continent and in the United States and elsewhere. When it comes to the Palestinians and our support for them, it's not for Arafat. It's for children, it's for women, it's for humanitarian work, it's for rebuilding the possibility that there can be a civil society in the Palestinian territories. Peace is not just the absence of war. Peace is primarily opportunities for schooling, for water, for jobs, for a normal life for ordinary people. And that's exactly what we're seeing now that you haven't been able to get enough. To say that we should leave this and push the bill over to others, I think I'm pointless and selfish. And besides, the countries that Fridtjof Frank Gundersen now wanted to pay are paying a lot. Luckily, peace thief Frank Gundersen's most important ally, the United States, has invested a lot of money and political prestige in establishing peace. We're going to be very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e801	I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the Government on the successful work that has led to Norway being given a place among the elected members of the Security Council. It is the result of good work by the Government and by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the result of a long-term work, which was also involved in the central government, to which the Minister of Foreign Affairs himself referred. This gives us an important platform in international policy, and it is also an expression of recognition and trust in the role that Norway can play in international reconciliation and peace. I am also pleased that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is now confirming that he will come to Stortinget with a statement, so that the Stortinget can also participate in and draw up a strategy and have opinions on how this important place should be filled with an independent and active role in the Security Council. Norway has also played an important role in the Balkans, with important support for the opposition and the free press, including the work in which it has been invested in the long term. A considerable amount of work was done by the central government, and there has been extensive cooperation with other countries as well. But here too, the government has contributed very well to the fact that the solution in Yugoslavia was as it was. A whole world followed with turbulent excitement the popular uprising in the wake of the elections in Yugoslavia: Would it end in acts of violence and civil war? Would Milosevic give up his power voluntarily and leave it peacefully to Vojislav Kostunica? While most both nervously, in great uncertainty and excitement were waiting for the answers to these questions, it was enough with a certain amazement we could read in the evening post that «Norway knew everything». And as the Foreign Minister said to the Evening Post: «Already at the beginning of the week I was sure that Milosevic's days were spoken». I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: on what basis has he been able to express himself so confidently about a matter on which the whole world was otherwise so tense and uncertain?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e817	What came out of that interview was that we thought that even though Milosevic could manage to cling to power a little more, his days were still talking. There was an opinion that applied in broad circles. It was uncertain what the course would be like. But I don't think I'm too hard in saying that Norway was the country that had absolutely the best information about the course of the crisis in Yugoslavia. It was because we had established systematic contact with the opposition in the country, and it was because we had simply financed the heavy data center that had branches across the country, and that was able to verify that the election result as presented by the democratic opposition was correct. We were fully convinced that this fact could not be escaped in the final phase. Even if you had pulled it out a little bit, this fact would be so heavy, and it was actually also what overturned the whole game for Milosevic. I believe in retrospect that this statement stands by. There could have been a lot of passages that week, that's true. But Milosevic had no opportunity to extend his reign very long. His days were simply spoken.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e826	Let me also congratulate the Government on the result achieved. It is, of course, very demanding for Norway to have a membership of the Security Council, but it is right to assume this co-responsibility. This, of course, is also demanding for the political environment in Norway, for the Government to know that it has back coverage in Stortinget, for the Stortinget does not see itself as a kind of extra negotiating committee. That's why it's important that the Foreign Minister says that he wants to send a message about the lines, so that we can discuss it. My question is about Yugoslavia. I agree with the Foreign Minister of the joyous thing that has now happened in Yugoslavia by the fact that the democratic opposition has won through. I sincerely hope he is right when he says that the 20th century got its end last Thursday, and I fully agree with him that the Western world should do what it can to help Yugoslavia on the democratic path. But it is not to be overlooked that what is at the heart of this issue is that it has the necessary impact on the situation in Kosovo and that it leads to a policy of reconciliation in Kosovo. This is a moment that I have not seen particularly affected the Foreign Minister, and I would simply like to ask him that question, how he assesses the impact of this shift in power on a possible policy of reconciliation in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e833	This was a very important question, because there is no obvious answer to it. There is a possibility that those who have constantly struggled for a release can get even greater incentives to do so in the new situation. What I think must be the historical experience is that it is easier to deal with conflicts when dealing with democratic regimes, which are in contact with the rest of the world. That is where I believe our opportunity and our duty is now, namely to immediately link Yugoslavia to the international community again – immediately contribute to economic and other assistance – so that we enter into a dialogue, and so that they must of course choose between what they want, that is, to get completely involved in Europe and the world, and to continue on the nationalist path that led to all the tragedies. It's not given to say what the result is. But, for my part, I am convinced, after meeting the leaders we are now facing, that they want a democratic Yugoslavia, they want a Yugoslavia included in Europe, and they want to resolve the conflicts that are both in relation to Montenegro and in relation to Kosovo. We have to bet on that, and I think we have good experience with, as I said at the outset, that democracy is easier to deal with than dictatorship, at least when it is dictatorship based on purely nationalism, as the Milosevic regime was.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e838	Of course, the centre party is also in the ranks of the consoliants. But I also allow myself to address another question raised by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his speech, because today the Foreign Minister and party leader Igland repeated their desire to apply for Norwegian EU membership. However, he made it clear that this is not imminent – he had to be perceived as such – because this was a question that had to be linked to the enlargement of the European Union, and as a prerequisite he also had a clear position in the people for the benefit of membership. The Minister of Foreign Affairs did not now mention Denmark’s no to the euro, which, according to Jagland, has also exempted Norway from a serious economic situation. But what many people are asking about today is what the National Assembly of the Workers Party will do. Is it the case that party leader Jagland is still prepared to change the party programme in November to allow Norwegian EU membership to be applied for during the forthcoming enlargement period? In this case, is Iland aware that such a decision will of course open up a new EU debate, short and good because those on the roll-out lists will, of course, have to clarify their position on a possible Norwegian EU application already during the forthcoming roll-out period?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e843	Now I don't want this to develop into a national meeting in the Workers' Party, although I think Jacobsen could feel at home there. When we have said that we should have some freedom of action, it does not mean that we intend to apply for membership in the next period, but we must make people aware of how we judge the situation, namely that we are facing an extensive enlargement of the European Union. It will start in the next magnification period, and you can't deprive the people of the opportunity and the right they have to evaluate this question. So we just want to give the Norwegian people freedom of action if development is to be such that it confirms a clear position in the people that you want something different from what is the situation today. I have to remind you that what has happened in Yugoslavia now is a good proof that you can get quite a surprise. The fall of the Berlin Wall was no one able to predict. Four weeks ago, I think almost a combined international press could not dream that Kostunica could win a election in Yugoslavia. The last week, everyone rushed in to cover the events. But that just explains that we can get quite big surprises. And I think it's really important for a small country like Norway to bear in mind that the surprises can be quite big in the next decade. It's stupid of a small country to tie up on hands and feet. That doesn't mean we're going to start a new membership debate if not the assumptions were to change significantly, but we have to keep open so that it can actually happen, when we see the decade we have behind us, and look into what the future can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e849	I would like to congratulate myself on the range of congratulations, and congratulate both the Foreign Service and the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the work behind Norway's seat in the Security Council. But I want to continue the challenge from earlier today, because that place needs to be used for a clear and clear speech from Norway on international issues. Over Israel and in the Middle East conflict, the speech has become clearer gradually, but there are others who have done the job of hanging the bell on the cat and saying that it is Israel who has the greatest responsibility. Today they've shot. Today, Israeli police have shot a nine-year-old. There's one of many kids, and there's a difference between that and throwing rocks. I am also pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that we should be able to discuss the Norwegian course in the Security Council at a later meeting and after a statement from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because it provides an opportunity to come back thoroughly to many important questions. But I want to face one challenge, and it's about the sanctions. For we have seen that in many cases sanctions have been adopted, for example: to Iraq, which does not weaken Hussein, but on the contrary helps to strengthen him, and where the poorest of the poor and especially children pay the price for us to feel terrible about Iraq. One important job for the Security Council must be to develop sanctions in such a way as to affect the power of rule they are to strike, not a previously thin civilian population. Is there a problem that Norway wants to tackle? Finally, I have to ask for a little clarification, because I understood the Foreign Minister's statements on the EU as a dampening in relation to the impression previously given by an eager foreign minister, Mr Jagland, who wants Norway into the EU as soon as possible. On the contrary, there were many reservations that I have not heard expressed so clearly and clearly in the past. Which version is correct – Jakobsen’s or Jagland’s?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e860	The first time I brought this up with freedom of action in foreign policy was not when I was a foreign minister, but when I was a party leader – it was in February. Then I said two things: one thing was that it's not about re-applying for membership until enlargement is a fact, and before you've got another situation in the Norwegian people. I've been saying this all along. I've repeated that today, and I'm on it. But you can't rule out that these two facts occur in the next big period. That's why we want an openness in relation to what can actually happen. When it comes to clear and clear speech in the Security Council, I think we need to have a debate on this in Stortinget. Because if you're going to do something in the Security Council, at least you have to be aware that there are five major acts of veto right. If you want anything in the Security Council, you have to cooperate with those who will vote in favour and, if necessary, have veto. And then it's clear that declarations aren't what helps us the most if we want influence. If we want to do this as a domestic policy in Norway, we can use that method, but not if we want to influence the Security Council. With regard to the Middle East, we have supported all resolutions in the Security Council from 1948 until today, including the last two. It has been a principle for Norway that we support the work of the Security Council. We supported the two important resolutions 242 and 338 after the six-day war, which have been the basis for everything that has been done since then, and we support the first resolution now after the turmoil – and the second. So it has been a principle for Norway that we are trying to support the work of the Security Council in the Middle East. But if someone wants to sort of make a domestic political issue out of this, it's something other than supporting the UN's work to create peace in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e869	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e872	The debate so far and what has been presented in the State budget show at least one thing, namely that we have a much clearer distinction between the right and the left, especially in business policy. The one who might take the cup so far when it comes to incorrect situation descriptions of Norwegian business, is the representative Øystein Djupedal, who in a reply to Jan Petersen earlier today, describing the conditions for running business in Norway, said: ‘But what is the reality? It's of course that Norwegian business actually goes better than ever. With few exceptions, there is a large surplus in private Norwegian business.» That's the way it might be, but I think that part of the small and medium-sized enterprises knows a completely different picture than what Djupedal sketches in his article. A lot of companies have a high level of activity, but unfortunately the ignition is very bad for a lot of them. So what does the Labour Party say in this context? Yes, the Workers' Party is committed to providing risk capital to the business community. They will go in with NOK 5 billion in a semi-state limited liability company to invest in Norwegian business. At the same time, they're subtracting the double, or $10 billion, in taxes from the same business community, $10 billion that would have gone to a large part of building up capital. There is a stronger governance with the business community from the state side. The experience is also poor. Good old-fashioned social-democratic policy has been called this. Yes, with the exception of the word ‘good’ I can sign this. Right has a cursor at the opposite end of the view. Right will have less state control. We see enormous opportunities in our business, enormous opportunities that we will enable individuals and businesses to exploit themselves. There are two areas of the Right in particular that will strengthen to achieve this. One is better communication, especially in the road sector. The second is research, development and education. In both of these important areas, the draft budget and what has been said by the Government are sadly weak. When it comes to roadways, it's a continuation of a historically low level, and when it comes to research, I have to join the Council of State Grete Knudsen said earlier this evening, that we use far less for research and development than the countries of competition. It's a completely correct representation. But it's just that with the trigger rate set by the current government, it won't take 15 years, as the representative Reikomm was in it, before we get back to the OECD average. No, we're actually slowing down in relation to the OECD. The gap between us and the OECD average is increasing with the budget presented. Back to this with education. There's a level in our education system, the so-called intermediate level, that lies between continuing education and colleges and universities. This area has been very much the subject of discussion. What will happen to this level? In connection with the educational policy distribution that the Council of State Gishe came into ours, the Right is proposing that we should have this distribution, the Berg Committee's distribution, of this important school team this year. After a clear majority in Stortinget said clearly that this was supported by them, the Council of State spoke out so that we realized that he had taken the signal, so we made our proposal for a transmission proposal. But what the Council of State has said, both in different speeches and in its budget proposals, has come to this level, that he will see this distribution in connection with both the Aamodt Committee, which is looking at study funding, and the Mjös Committee, which is looking at higher education, means that from the Right's point of view we will have to promote this proposal again in order to instruct the Council of State to follow what has been our Grandfather's clear intention. I would therefore like to promote the proposal that has been distributed on the platform, and I hope and believe in a number of points for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e895	Petter Løvik has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e898	Yesterday, it was again known that the old Oslo city is coming out badly on the SSB's living conditions survey. Only four Norwegian municipalities have worse living conditions, and these are often deprived municipalities. In Old Oslo, there are 25 000 people. There is little new in the various reports, but that they still show a worsening situation for children, is new, and it's really bad. It is very good that happens, but it touches the heart of all of us that 70,000 children in one of the world's best welfare states live below the poverty line. The number is increasing if I take those who live close to the absolute poverty line, and Norway has the most poor children in the Nordic region. I agree with Mr Nordli that this is a shame. The challenge is to raise children economically and well-being. The Year-on-Day Communication concluded that differences in Norwegian society have increased. That means that the difference between poor and rich children has also increased, and it's urgent to do something about this, because the children are growing very fast. Another study shows that among children in Old Oslo, there is hardly a lexicon at home. Computer equipment is likely to be equally absent. The youth of Old Oslo can only dream of ISDN line. More seriously, poverty makes many people live so crowded that they can't bring friends home, because there's just no room, and that way their parents get a less understanding of what the kids are doing out there. Many of the children and young people living in the district have barely been outside the city border. Sleeping bags for tents, skis and other sports equipment appear as luxury that many of them can only dream of. It may be more surprising that some of these youths are also so hungry when they get to the youth club that it actually feels like a problem. Diet is a problem, but it is difficult to give parental advice on diet when they are most concerned about getting rid of cockroaches on the walls of the apartments. This is Norway in 2000. It's not hidden poverty. It is quite clearly visible and very real to us who live in the neighborhood, and even more to those who work with the kids and young people in the neighborhood, not to talk about how it feels for them. Unfortunately, there is now also reason to suspect prostitution in girls up to 13 years old, poor kids who thus raise money to buy what is in. Then I have not mentioned relations with crime and violence that are more known problems. This is serious. When I called the district earlier today to get information about the situation, I was told that they were meeting to deal with budget cuts. Oslo Municipality has its share of responsibility for this, but 70 000 children living in poverty are also a national responsibility. The design of the Oslo Criterion System is therefore important for a fairer distribution and for a more predictable local economy. The state can do something about this. The criteria system must address the major urban challenge. The government is working on it, and I hope the Storting will also take responsibility for the situation. No one should be able to live with the big differences we have between the kids, especially the differences we see between the kids in Old Oslo and the winner. So finally a little bit about the Middle East. I myself have been in the Middle East and with my own eyes have seen what I will call the apartheid regime there – the daily harassment of the Palestinians by Israel, and that they occupy more and more of Palestine, while in the midst of the peace negotiations. The refugees have been referred for generations to a degrading life in refugee camps, distress and poverty. It reminds me that it is actually Israel's occupation that is the problem, and not the caste and impatience of the Palestinians, and that the solution is not to wage war on stone casters, the solution lies in Israel's will for peace. It is important now, as the Foreign Minister also pointed out, that we are getting the Oslo process going again, that we are looking forward to this with the Oslo Agreement, and that things are happening in the very tense situation in the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e917	There were some and everyone who had great expectations of parts of the declaration of accession presented by the Stoltenberg government. There were particularly good rates of modernisation and renewal of the public sector. That's why it was with quite a degree of disappointment that you could hear this year's chronology, because there were almost all of these excuses gone. All the government's talk and talk so far about the need for modernisation of the public sector is absent both in it and in the budget that has now been presented. It seems to me that the Government has put in the drawer of the latest public investigation entitled ‘Should the public sector be exposed to competition?’. It is a rather interesting public investigation, where the sample that has worked on it consists mainly of bureaucrats from a variety of departments. Citations can be read as: ‘... when the public must not compete in a market, it will tend to be less efficient and less user-oriented.’ This is a quote that the sample has also obtained directly from the OECD. It says something about how obsolete the Norwegian debate has become in this area. For in Norway, the debate on the launch and modernisation of competition has been an ideological debate and not a substantive debate on the need for changes in Norwegian social structure. In most other countries that have carried out much of this, it has not been suggested an ideological discussion, but the fact that one has had a bad public economy and thus has set ideology aside to think sensible economic solutions for how to run the public sector in a better way. SV and the Workers' Party have spent a considerable part of the summer making a debate about Granny's bids and creating a rhetoric around it as if it were a shell word. We have got the impression that old Mrs. Nilsen is going to be a caste ball between profit hunters who are not concerned with Mrs. Nilsen's woe and well, but with money. But the truth is that, through this public inquiry, we have been able to determine the dramatic consequences for the operation of the public sector if we choose to use the competitive environment as an instrument. The report notes that international experience has shown that the creation of competing markets leads to more efficient production and that services are produced cheaper than before. There the government really has to be able to find the powder for the argument about saving money to spend on other good purposes. It is clear from the sample that competition itself generates the improvements, and that it has therefore been found from international experience that up to 30 pst can be saved. by subjecting some public services to competition. It is also clear – for this has been an important part of the ideological debate in Norway – that the level of pay appears to be better in the private enterprises that are thus exposed to competition. It should also be an important signal for the Government to bring along. In addition, when it is also established from this sample that there is no record of a tendency for private individuals to be worse at organising the work than for the public, all the warnings from the LO, on which the Workers' Party often relies, should be gone. It is strange that, in this context, when we discuss public services, we do not want to put quality and the user in focus, but that public authorities should have control. I think we all agree that we should have control. The question is how to finance it and facilitate the situation so that users can choose. In any other context, we let consumers themselves go out and buy and make choices all the time. These are relatively important things they choose. But when it comes to health care, care for the elderly and other things, you should not be allowed to choose for yourself. The most paradoxical thing in today's Health Norway, for example. It is true that the Workers' Party has created a classed health system in which private hospitals are not allowed to compete side by side with the public. Instead, a system has been created where those who can afford it can buy themselves out of the public line by going to the private hospitals. I believe that is quite far from the rhetoric that the Workers' Party advocates in health policy. Although I miss action from the Government in this area, I hope that they can take the public investigation on the launch of competition from the drawer, dry the dust off it and use it. For the conclusions that are there, are clear and very clear. We should also be able to do this in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e931	In the run-up to a strengthening of environmental policy followed by the 2001 draft budget and the next year’s state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state. At the same time, we are calling for the renewal of work forms and instruments in environmental policy, with more integrated environmental action in all sectors of society, more environmental responsibility in municipalities and more cooperation between environmental authorities and business. Several environmental problems require global solutions. This autumn, the Government is working hard to obtain a result of the sixth meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol, which may provide a basis for its entry into force. Norway’s national strategy for the follow-up to the Kyoto obligation was then addressed to the Stortinget on Norway’s follow-up to the Kyoto Protocol in spring 1998. The government actively follows up that strategy, where the establishment of a national allowance system is central. I consider this to be one of the most important measures to reduce emissions in the 2008-2012 period in line with the commitments. The quota system will lead to a price for greenhouse gas emissions also in many areas where this is not the case today. State pollution control has provided an analysis of measures showing that there is significant room for national emission reductions at moderate costs and that the establishment of an allowance system could provide incentives for these potentials to be realised. The government will come back to the design of the system in a paper in spring 2001. The framework for energy policy was laid when Stortinget dealt with the energy communication earlier this year. The majority of the population wanted gas power plants in Norway because it provides benefits in terms of energy policy, environmental policy and industry. This has been the basis for the follow-up by the Government to the Storting decision, and the Ministry of the Environment's thorough examination of the issue of the emission permits for the two gas power stations shows that there are no legal obstacles to the implementation of the Storting decision. As explained in St.meld. No 33 for 1999-2000, this may be carried out within the framework of the pollution law provided that a number of basic conditions are met. On 6 October this year, I converted the terms of the emission permits granted for gas power plants under the pollution law. The Ministry of the Environment has found that the benefits that build and others get are significantly greater than the damage or disadvantages that the conversion will bring to the environment, and that the conditions for conversion under Section 18(1) of the Pollution Act. So 5 is going to be satisfied. In the assessment of the environmental impacts of CO2 emissions, the Ministry has assumed that the Storting assumes that the expected power loss will be covered by increased imports if access to new power does not increase. Gas power is cleaner than much of the energy imported from Europe, and for greenhouse gas emissions it is a contribution to the overall global emissions that are crucial. If demand is met through increased gas supply, gas power stations will help reduce total greenhouse gas emissions in Northern Europe. A number of analyses have previously been submitted which conclude that Norwegian gas power plants will shift more polluting power and thus reduce total CO2 emissions. The Ministry of the Environment now also has fully up-to-date assessments of how market developments – and thereby emissions – will be if Norway provides the energy market with the power from two natural power plants. The studies carried out by leading trade unions and highlighted from different points of view confirm that the most likely development is the reduction of total CO2 emissions from the Nordic and Northern European markets. It has been claimed that this is not a sufficient basis for a transposition under the Pollution Act. To this I would say that as an analysis of future developments these provide a very good basis. Once the decision has been based on the best knowledge and the leading investigative environments in this area, this must be legally sustainable. In line with the Storting assumptions, the strict NOx emission limits have not been relaxed, but have been open to partial compliance by third party measures. The Ministry has in St.meld. No 33 specified the general framework that must be met in order for the decision of the Storting to be taken on «flexible NOx measures» to be implemented within the framework of the pollution law. In order to ensure the state of the environment, existing international obligations and general requirements for control by the pollution authorities, the Ministry has developed framework requirements in line with those outlined in St.meld. No Thirty-three.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e950	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e953	As the Council of State was involved in its contribution, the natural force emission permit for the gas power plants at Kollsnes and Kårstø has been converted. In this context, the Council of State has stated in a press release: ‘The review of the case shows that the total CO2 emissions are likely to decrease with the Norwegian gas power stations than without.When the environmental impact is likely to be positive, I find it clear that conversion can take place within the framework of the pollution law’. In the debate on the Energy Communication on 9 March this year, Jens Stoltenberg said the following: ‘Norwegian gas power will, of course, increase CO2 emissions in Norway, but the total emissions will be significantly lower.’ In the case of CO2 emissions, I would ask the Minister for the Environment to explain why one here goes from ‘will become substantially lower’ to ‘probably smaller’. The most sensible thing in the view of the Progress Party will be to remove the entire CO2 from the pollution law, as CO2 is not pollution and therefore does not belong there, as we have proposed, and will be dealt with in this room a little later this week. Another question that arises is the legality of the transformation that has been done here. Why has the Ministry of the Environment not had the Ministry of Justice's legislative department come up with a question about the conversion of SFT's emission requirements, so that it is absolutely certain that the transformation that has been done here is sustainable in law?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e973	This article shows that there is considerable disagreement between the Progress Party and the Working Party in environmental policy. The Labour Party has never wanted to change the pollution law by taking out the important greenhouse gas CO2 from an assessment under the pollution law, but we have wanted to use the pollution law to make it as possible to build gas power plants in Norway as it is in other European countries today. I can assure the representative of Korsberg that there is no disagreement between Jens Stoltenberg and me in this matter. We have built on the best analyses in the market, energy market models that point to the overall energy impact of potential gas power plants in Norway and come to the conclusion that there is a great likelihood that this will lead to a reduction in total emissions. Then, of course, the Ministry of the Environment in its decision to transform it is based on a legal basis that there is no doubt about, and we are, of course, also based on the law department's assessments of these matters. That's why we've gone into each case in a concrete way, that we've assessed the benefits and disadvantages against each other and have clearly come to the conclusion that the overall benefits are greater than the environmental disadvantages.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e982	It is interesting to note that the Council of State refers to all the professional bodies operating in the energy market in order to get their views through and to secure their professional position, but it has thus failed to involve State pollution control in that process. That's something we have to take note of. During this debate, an attempt has been made to create the impression that the distance between the centre and the Workers' Party is not great in environmental policy, and the Workers' Party is trying to minimize the differences. I feel that it's going to be wrong. So let me point out the following, which illustrates that the centre parties and the Workers' Party are going in two very different directions: it wasn't the center parties that would expand Upper Otta. It wasn't the center parts that would drive bulldozers into the Finn Forest. It wasn't the center parts that wanted to expand Beiarn. It wasn't the centre parties that wanted to put VAT on public transport. It wasn't the centre parties that dramatically reduced theincrease measures in the budget. It was also not the centre batches that removed the cleaning requirements of gas power plants. That's what the Workers' Party did. There is a difference between the center and the Working Party, and the direction of the Working Party is wrong. We come back to a part of what the Council of State was about in its article the next Thursday. I will therefore limit myself to asking the following two questions to the Council of State. Firstly, what sector does the Council expect to pay for gas power stations to be free of charge for emissions? Question no. 2: Can the Government guarantee that it can refer to concrete targeted and measurable results by 2005 in line with the Kyoto agreement, or should we expect the Government to relate only to the period 2008-2012, as we could get the impression of the Council's intervention?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e993	I have not heard anything in today's debate that echoes my view that a good environmental policy in Norway can be found by cooperation between the centre parties and the Workers' Party. We disagree on the issue of gas power because the Labour Party government wants to see this in a broader perspective than a purely national one because the energy markets are European, and that is when this issue also needs to be seen in a European perspective. However, gas power stations should in no way be free passengers in relation to our climate obligations. We are now working on the follow-up to the national strategy for Kyoto commitments, where a national allowance system could be in place in good time before the first commitment period for the Kyoto agreement starts in 2008. Gas power stations will then be confronted with environmental requirements where allowances are priced and, of course, gas power stations will have the same obligations as all other parts of business. The majority of the population have also been crystal clear about Norway taking the Kyoto commitments seriously, and of course all sectors of society have to bear the costs. These are conditions that the Storting will have ample opportunity to come back to when we promote the proposal for the follow-up to the national strategy for Kyoto commitments.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e998	I was almost tempted to reply to the representative, Brother Yngve Rahm, but since this is not the case, I would rather agree with what the Council of State said when it came to the national quota system. It is the most concrete and measurable single decision made in the Storting as a follow-up to the Kyoto agreement. And it was made, as the representative Brother Yngve Rahm is aware, in a joint decision between the Right and the Workers' Party. Otherwise, let me commend the Council of State for a neat and correct follow-up to the Storting decision on the gas power issue. At the NRK-Dagsrevyen today, there were signs that the centre batches would be required to introduce a CO2 tax for gas power plants. I take as a matter of course that the government will reject such a claim. This would directly contradict the emission permit granted and the decisions taken in the Stortinget, namely that there should be no stricter emission requirements in Norway than is usual in the EEA territory. If we were to introduce a special Norse CO2 tax for gas power plants, it would be to introduce stricter emission requirements in Norway – to make the clean Norwegian gas more expensive and to make the polluting coal power imports cheaper. So I ask the Council of State to confirm that the Government will of course not open up any strange CO2 tax on gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e1005	The redesign of the emission permits for the two gas power plants has, of course, been intended to avoid major obstacles to the construction of gas power plants in Norway other than those in use in other European countries. It has not been intended that gas power stations should be free-of-charge passengers in the longer term in order not to comply with national or international obligations in relation to climate change emissions. But the CO2 tax that pays for gas power plants is a bad way to do it. It is far better to set in motion an allowance system in which gas power stations are subject to the same types of obligations as other industrial activities. I will not decide here on proposals I have not seen. But much more interesting than the CO2 tax is an allowance system that must include gas power plants and other activities in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e1015	In its budget proposal, the Council of the Environment states yes to several trailers and train trains on the Norwegian road. She says yes to more private driving. It says yes to major greenhouse gas emissions. She says yes to more asthma and allergy problems. She says yes to more noise and noise problems. It therefore says no to more rail freight, no to bet on better collective provision and no to bet on greenhouse gas reductions in the transport sector. A joint environmental movement – and all the youth parties unacceptable FpU – is opposed to this policy. Can the Council explain what this has to do with environmental policies at all? So to the Workers' Party's traditional position in environmental policy. Traditionally, the Labour Party, together with the Right and the Progress Party in environmental policy, is an example of this in the draft budget. And when it comes to gas-fired sacs, as Mr. Sanner was saying, it's clear that the Right and the Advance Party are well-accompanied with it. But to the Council of State, I can say that it was not present and argued that gas power would lead to greenhouse gas reductions. But the Prime Minister, sitting in the hall, said how Norwegian gas power plants would first reduce Danish coal power plants, and then, to make it even worse, they would reduce Polish coal power plants. And at the Environment Minister's press conference on gas power plants, it was now likely that there could be reductions in emissions altogether. My question to the Minister for the Environment is: Will an account be presented showing real reductions? Point 2: Will the Government advise the Workers' Party to support Kristin Halvorsen's proposal when it comes to contracting State pollution control?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e1026	No, I'm not saying yes to all Langeland's claims. We have submitted from the Labour Party Government a budget that means strengthening environmental work in many ways. We are getting a commitment to energy-saving measures by changing the whole policy in this area. We'll get a new fund. We are focusing on environmentally friendly gas power technology. We are increasing the investment in alternative uses of natural gas that will reduce emissions in the future. We maintain the level of investment in energy saving measures. And other parts of the environmental budget have a significant increase in outdoor policy, in terms of cultural memories, in terms of environmental investment in Russia and very many other areas. We have based a number of analyses on the issue of gas power on our conclusions. A number of analyses have been carried out in the past, and we have now carried out updated analyses of in particular how energy markets will function as a result of potential Norwegian gas plants. That's why we don't see any need for any further analysis beyond those we now have. We have asked the State's pollution control authorities in this matter in a number of areas. We've asked them on environmental issues, but just when it comes to how the energy markets will work in the future, we've asked for the skills that are most appropriate in that area, and we see it as a very good basis in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e1033	One must record that the Workers' Party uses environmental issues systematically to increase the distance from the Centre Parties. And it's not just about gas, as it's tried today. In a good way, several previous speakers have identified a number of areas in which the Workers' Party is far from the centre of the solutions and find solutions with the right parties. So has the previous year. Upper Otta was cleared between the Workers' Party and the Right, and the positioning of shooting areas in the East was cleared between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, with solutions against which an overall environmental movement protested. Now we have to state that a poor environmental policy and a poor device in the budget stand in the way of a good budgetary solution between the centre and the Workers' Party. A lot has to be done here. In the last week we have been told that the working party wants to move freely forward for gaseous power plants. One can discuss how dramatic it becomes, when one knows that building is many years ahead of time. But the dramatic thing is that the Workers' Party adds up to a height competition without a list. This means that the actors who now wanted to reach out to work out the clean solutions are told that there are so mild demands here that they will never be able to claim themselves. My question to the Council of State is: can she imagine opening up to use framework conditions to stimulate clean gas power solutions so that they can win, at the expense of the highly polluting?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e1044	The very first Thursday we will have the opportunity to discuss several environmental issues in Stortinget. Then we're going to deal with last year's big-time report on the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the kingdom. It was the central government policy. It joined the Workers' Party government in the first place. There is visible evidence that there is a great deal of agreement between the Workers' Party and the Centre on environmental policy, and I think that will also be demonstrated by the close budgetary discussions of the future. At least we have not heard anything today that does not provide the basis for those conversations. It is still the aim of everyone that the gas power plants built in Norway should have the best available technology. The problem is that the environmentally friendly technology that everyone has been waiting for this year after year has not become profitable to invest in. We take the consequences of this by focusing more on the research that will help bring about this technology. But before that happens, and before it has become profitable, it is a bad idea not to use the potential that potential Norwegian gas plants will provide to reduce total emissions. Therefore, there are two aspects of the same issue: both to focus on a development of the technology that can make gas power plants more environmentally friendly, and to allow them to be built today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e1051	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e1054	I allow myself to quote from His Majesty the King's speech to the Stortinget on October 3rd this year: ‘Norway is the society of opportunity. The basic values of our welfare society are the will for shared responsibility, solidarity and fair distribution.’ In today's economic situation, we have the opportunity to secure and further develop this welfare society by focusing on common solutions that all have the opportunity to benefit from. The working party wishes to give priority to the community, rather than to the market or individual economy, for which offers it can afford to avail itself of. The Labour Party will focus on health and care, a good school and secure growth conditions for children and young people. Most people do agree that these are important societal tasks, but we disagree on how to achieve the objectives and whether there are private or public solutions to be chosen. The Labour Party believes that the continued development of public welfare schemes is best placed to ensure that everyone is given equal opportunities to make use of a good care offer. This is solidarity with the weakest. We want to create a better and safer everyday life for those who need it the most, a better and safer everyday life for those who depend on the community to set up for them. Not everyone has a family or a social network when the problems arise. Some of those who are most vulnerable to a difficult life situation are our children and young people. Good growth is crucial for how a child will develop and gradually be integrated into adult society. Children in crisis need a lot of care from kindergarten to school and child protection, and not least they need a good leisure experience. The working party wants to bet in these areas. Especially do we want to bet on the quality of the offer. We want to give employees the opportunity to increase their skills. A good and varied leisure service for children and young people is, as I said, very important. Preventive measures shall be strengthened, not least culture and sport. It becomes pointless to focus only on punishment when children and young people have problems. A good cultural offer cannot be governed by the market, where only those organisations and institutions that manage without public support have the right to life, as some in this room seem to think. The size of the population has a major challenge for the poor children in Norway. When we read about children who cannot participate in sports or attend school trips, we have to respond. After all, one goal is that the weakest can participate in welfare development and not remain outside. The Labour Party will present a separate action plan for the follow-up to the Equalisation Communication and a growing-up and living conditions message for children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e1077	The languages of the throne began by establishing something very important and correct, which is the very basic values of our society. These values have helped to make our country a welfare society – not just a community based on nationality, but a society where well-being dominates and binds together. The Christian People's Party fully understands the importance and necessity of 'the will for joint responsibility, solidarity and fair distribution'. At the same time, it is important to clarify what these concepts have in concrete terms, and what practical policies this content implies. I see no need to underestimate the fact that there is a lot of good in the throne, and there are signals of attitudes we in the Christian People's Party share with the current government party. But when that's said, I also want to express amazement and disappointment that the anchoring of values does not appear in a different and distinct way in the rest of the languages of the throne. As it stands now, the basic values are taken for once and for all. But the values are under pressure. If not often held forward and underlined, they are slowly but safely emptied of content. Neither must we just theoretically know what the basis of value is, but we have to let it affect our everyday life. If the basic values are to have any meaning in addition to representing the legacy of the past, they must be constantly cleared and updated into what concerns us every day. In this context, I took note with interest of the fact that Mr Thoresen, in a reply to our parliamentary leader, Mr Gjell Magne Bondevik, earlier today, agreed to a valuable mobilisation, which will form the basis for the policy to be pursued in Norway. One of the closest things to most of us is egoism. But egoism is dangerous as a guide. It undermines the will for joint responsibility, it sabotages all forms of solidarity, and it has absolutely no understanding of fair distribution. The field of view of the egoist is as the saying goes: first myself and then myself, and then perhaps my next if it serves me best. If we politicians don't try or fail to put value issues into everyday politics, I dare say we fail as elected voters. We have to set the right agenda, show way and even live as valued people. At a time when consumer mentality and materialism are at risk, the Government should have advocated a valuable mobilisation based on our Christian and humanist cultural heritage. I hope, however, that this line from Thoresen was more than a cosmetic decoration of an eye-catching omission in the throne speech. The follow-up from the Government will show you if that is the case. What I see as the most important thing for shared responsibility and solidarity is the care of every human being from conception to natural death. Right now, I would like to stress the importance of this care perspective in the legal protection of children. It is unacceptable to complete 60 pst. in cases of criminal offences against children that have been reported. A major reason for the decrees is a lack of evidence obtained by experts both inside and outside the police. It is only the few places around the country that we have professionals who are able to make expeditious and revealing conversations and studies quickly that at the same time create the security and processing of the degrading experiences that children have experienced. Nor will it be natural for us to build up such expertise in each police district. But we can build a central expertise, for example. following the pattern of KRIPOS, which may quickly move out to the place in question when there is a notification of sexual assault against children. In today’s situation, it is often a long time before the local police have ensured professional expertise that can do something similar to questioning the child. Before such interrogations have taken place, the child cannot talk about his or her experiences with others in the immediate family. The reason for this is that in a subsequent trial, the child’s statements can be interpreted as a result of the influence of other adults on the child. Not being able to talk about the evil the child has gone through feels like a betrayal from the adults. The child experiences that it is not believed, and it must bear its own pain without being able to share it with anyone. It doesn't deserve these kids. Therefore, it must be a shared responsibility that we provide a central knowledge base with professionals who can move out to any place where notification is made or suspected of sexual abuse of children. In line with what I have said here, I have submitted a proposal asking the Government to investigate the possibility of establishing such a knowledge base.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e1088	It's delicious to be Norwegian. Yes, in fact, it is, with a government that will ensure a fair distribution in a prosperous Norway. We've once again got a government that thinks the most about those who have the least, and wants those who have the most, much more to contribute to funding this welfare society that we all want to have. The Labour Party will continue to create a society where we care about each other, and where the community is well equipped in international competition. In a well-functioning society, all shall have equal opportunities for kindergarten, school, education, sickness and help when age requires it. It is the community and the great human resources that have created the welfare society we have today, and here the Workers' Party has been the greatest actor. We'll never be a party that rotates in all directions. Our basic values can neither the Carl I. Hagen Party nor any other parties roam. The main evidence of this is the content of the 2001 budget, where we continue to expand the welfare community with appropriations for health care, care for the elderly, kindergartens, education and research, and not to forget the great effort made at Kommune-Norway. We are going to renew the public sector while at the same time strengthening services. Over the next ten years, we need approx. 60000 more at work in the health and care sector. This is a challenge that only Community solutions with a tidy economic policy can master, and then neither outsourcing nor privatisation is the way to go. A stable and well-considered national economy will create safe jobs and reduce the risk of increased interest rates. People shall have confidence that the Workers' Party can shape a fair welfare and distribution policy that ensures both the resources and competences of a fully-fledged public health system and a strong community sector. This invites the Government to participate in the 2001 budget submitted. The Progress Party attaches great importance to maximising any economic objective of the Workers' Party, and such massive crisis maximisation has actually succeeded in creating dissatisfaction that is growing proportionally as wealth increases in society. It is not useful to call for lower petrol prices if it is cut into the well-being goods that are the foundation of our welfare society. We've had a grudge, not least among the tops of business, that creates a culture of greed that needs to be combated. I have great respect for the inhabitants of this country, and we know that many would put values other than material wealth at the top if they were asked. During today's debate, several critical comments have been made on the environmental policy of the Workers' Party. Now it is not the case that all environmental policies are concerned with emissions from gas power plants. The Workers' Party's distribution and environmental policy is not just to allocate money and in the future CO2 quotas, but among others. to provide opportunities and access to nature and outdoor life for all in this country. The Stoltenberg Government is strongly committed to ensuring and actively working to improve public access to coastal and coastal zones and to improving access to hunting and fishing. We all know the importance of outdoor life for all ages in society, and everyone must have the same right to travel along our long-distance coast and in our wild mountain areas. Cultural memory protection is another important measure on which the Workers' Party is investing millions to preserve our cultural treasures. The Bondevik government was not at all famous for its environmental policy. As early as 11 December 1997, the former leader of Nature and Youth said to the Newspaper that the only remaining environmental integrity of the Bondevik government is the resistance to gas power stations. And that's all there was in the remaining time they ruled.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e1109	In today's edition of the Newspaper, the government gets praise because it's distanced from the Right. The right can live with the fact that we've been given greater political space. However, the question is whether the Labour Party Government is able to meet the challenges facing Norway. What is behind the political debates in the vast majority of Western parliaments is the challenges and opportunities of globalisation. National borders are breaking down, economies are growing together, and we are more strongly influenced by the world around us – both culturally, economically and politically. It seems that the Workers' Party's strategy to meet these challenges is primarily to realise the dream that the Center Party never realized, namely, the Anderledesland. While social-democratic governments all over Western Europe are talking about the third way and have literally moved well across the right half of the track, the Labour Party is talking about – to quote State Council Trond Giske – good, old-fashioned labour party policy. In the beginning, Prime Minister Stoltenberg spoke about modernisation and innovation. Gro Harlem Brundtland had a strategy for a pragmatic stone on stone policy. Now it's become good, old-fashioned labour party policy. The right has drawn up three main strategies to meet the challenges we face. The first is that we have to create the world's best school to ensure that all children have a common ballast and the best opportunities to exploit their own abilities and facilities. This is why right-wing emphasis is placed on quality in education, from first class up to universities and colleges. The Labour Party continues to talk about the reforms of the last decade. They are on the brink of reform 94 and reform 97, where the result has just been the Right Warning: the professional level has fallen, and the system has been put ahead of diversity in school. The right is talking about the need for renewal and modernisation in the public sector in order to ensure quality and freedom of choice both in the care of the elderly and in the health sector. We had hope when we heard the Workers' Party talk about competitive outsourcing. Now we have realized that what you really meant was that the competition was to be postponed. We assumed hope when the so-called Minister of Renewal spoke of the government as a failure if you couldn't change the public sector so that people would get a simpler everyday life. Now we've seen what you really meant, because what you're talking about now is we have to show patience. And it's the Storting that has to tell the Government which direction to go and how fast to go! We must obviously wait for these initiatives. The third strategy drawn up by the Right is the need to reduce taxes and taxes in order to make it more attractive to invest in Norway. And that's necessary! It is absolutely necessary to prevent Norway from losing its tax competition with other countries and regions. We see that in Sweden and in most other Western European countries taxes are being lowered to make it more attractive to invest in their own country, while in Norway a completely different approach is being adopted. Yes, with one hand, private business and competitive sector are being bullied with short-term taxes and higher taxes, while with the other hand, three are being supported by a semi-state fund. To quote Trond Giske again, you talk about good old-fashioned labor party politics. It's socialism. It is socialism when you bully the private sector and competitive business and then try to use a half-state fund to support the same business – or buy it up. I guess that's what you've really been thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e1124	The president did not realize that Finn Kristian Marthinsen instead made a proposal, but has now got it in hand. The President will therefore refer to the suggestion made by Finn Kristian Marthinsen. The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e1129	In this year's census, we all, whether we like it or not, see a choice when it comes to who we're going to turn the circle around. As others have said, there are Community solutions that include everyone and that capture all those who over the last few years have not been taken part in the well-being that we have for distribution, who are now going to get a lift. The anti-aliasing message from the Bondevik government, to which the Labour Party joined, is at the bottom as a pre-missive. I am pleased with this angle, and because we have a political plurality in our backs here at Stortinget when we get the follow-up to the message for concrete handling in spring 2001, as the government of Stoltenberg has signaled. The way to go, the government has given through this year's enthronement. One must be egotism and greed culture. Those who have the most have to provide more to the community box. ‘Solidarity’ must become much stronger than now than a word to live by in practice and not just to be talked about in festivities. The Bondevik government will be thinking about cash support and the Value Commission. But what was that actually? I'm just thinking about the Value Commission. I've been on line with many others and I've given money to this which, in my opinion, has been nothing but a chat club. One is of course free to believe that this was a good investment, but I am of the opinion that one should go critically through what we allow money for in this house, and then perhaps the Value Commission should not grow old. I expect him to finish the evaluation next year. In the last few days, we have been given new everyday examples of unsolved tasks. Kadra is called a young Somali girl who has seen my finger on what I have in mind. Cultural collisions and religion are mixed together as it fits. There are men who are chief, and who have seen the agenda in these environments. Some of them also set Norwegian laws aside. When a man hears how unproblematic such traditional abuses and lifelong torture are referred to by men, there is reason to take action to threaten human dignity and respect for women. This cannot continue. I have registered with the Minister of Children and Family and am pleased with what will happen on the part of the Government. Think of which human resources we have so far not included in our society. My advice to the Government is: Put down the Value Commission as quickly as possible, and use the millions that are released to integrate and take measures to include our new landlady. Stretch out a hand and let them participate in our society with rights and obligations, as a resource and not as passive cash beneficiaries. We need all the new hands we can get, e.g. in the care sector. That's where tomorrow's challenges are, not employment without goals and meaning, as in the Value Commission. That's how many good wishes and needs could be united. It's in the light of such symbolic things people don't understand what we're doing here. Supper's time must be over. If we've once made a mistake, it shouldn't be like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e1153	The regulatory time for tonight's meeting is over. The President will propose that the debate continue even on speaker No. Thirty-nine. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e1156	Earlier today, the representative called for Einar Steensnæs signals from the Workers' Party to provide an invitation for cooperation with the centre of environmental policy. In the turn of the line by State Council Bjerke's posts, an overall centre again tried to create a great deal of distance between the centre and the Workers' Party in environmental policy. The issue of gas power, an increased effort and a lack of commitment to public transport is highlighted as the wide-ranging difference between the centre and the Workers' Party. Yes, that's right, there's a difference in the view of building gas power plants. There is one thing where both I and the centre could have wanted the Workers' Party to take a different view. It's also true that there's a difference in the bet on an increase of 57 million. kr between the centre and the Working Party. But what the center fails to mention is that there is also a difference in the focus of the Ministry of the Environment, but with the opposite sign. Because with the Workers' Party, the Ministry of the Environment has received 80 million. kr more than what center sail had to give last year. I really have to say that when it comes to collective action, at least I have to look with magnifying glasses to see what's the difference between the center and the Workers' Party. In fact, there are not so many differences between the centre and the Working Party in environmental policy. What happens is that the centre is trying to misjudge that they have to make a choice and instead attack the environmental policy of the Workers' Party. Centre now has to be selected. They must choose between cooperating with the Workers' Party or with the Right Party and the Advance Party. If they choose to cooperate with the right side, they have also chosen not to bet on the environment. If they choose to cooperate with the Labour Party, the environment will continue to be an important investment in Norway. The distinction in the view of environmental policy does not go between the centre and the Workers' Party, the distinction in the view of environmental policy is between the Progress Party and the others. The party of progress has never hidden the fact that they will not give priority to environmental protection. If it had been up to the Advance Party, almost nothing had been spent on oil money or other money on environmental protection. In the 2000 budget, the Party would more than halve its support for preventive measures against predatory wildlife damage. They would have eliminated all grants for outdoor activities, cut large parts of the support for environmental research and most of the support for cultural memories. I also think it is appropriate to mention that the Progress Party voted against giving money to nuclear security measures in Eastern Europe. Unfortunately, it had to be a "Course" accident before the party understood that they were on wild roads, and apparently now has turned around in this case. The Progress Party has no environmental policy, and the elections should therefore be easy for environmentally conscious politicians in the centre. The working party is concerned with fair distribution — not only national but also international. The Labour Party wants to use its government power to contribute to a fairer distribution and to combat world poverty. We want to strengthen the UN, clear all debts to the poorest countries, and we want to help all the world's children get vaccinated. Every day 60,000 children die. We know that 30 million children are not vaccinated. This means that 3 million children die every year from diseases they could have been protected from. In Nigeria, the largest country in Africa, only two out of ten children are vaccinated. Vaccination of children is the most cost-effective health measures we know. Vaccines prevent children from dying from some banal diseases. Vaccine prevents children from being pregnant or suffering from mental illness and reduces the cost of hospitalisation by limiting disease. Epidemic outbreaks can be prevented. Healthy youth can go to school more easily. Parents can work instead of looking for their sick children. The vaccine initiative launched by Norway can make an important contribution to the exit of local communities and countries from the spiral of poverty. The Bondevik government will be remembered for providing cash support to the world's richest children. I want this labor party government to be remembered for helping to have vaccinated the world's poorest child. Norway is richer than ever. Our wealth must not lead us into a wave of egotism and intolerance. We must use our wealth on international solidarity and a fairer distribution in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e1184	As elected representatives of the people, the persuasion gives us a unique opportunity for long-term and overall discussions on the challenges we face, and not least to discuss what goals we want to meet. Maybe it's time to ask for a vision for the future society. In the Great Britain's first big debate in the new century, we should ask: what kind of society do we really want? What values will we build on? While cohesion and solidarity have undoubtedly become more difficult in recent years, the need for cohesion and solidarity has not diminished, on the contrary. Although the wealth of money in society is greater than ever, people are not necessarily more satisfied. On the contrary, that is partly a major dissatisfaction. For example, the impression of increased differences is reinforced. because of the attitudes which are revealed during these days in parts of the economy. And there are many paradoxes about the relationship between our great wealth of money on the one hand and the lack of resources, and even a great lack of effort in the public sector like health, care and school on the other. And so the polls show that the Progress Party is the country's most important party. Many people now ask themselves, what is really going on in our society? The back of the protest is often dissatisfied. It's a challenge. And maybe it's the way that the arrangements and the security that are built through generations are taken for granted. Everything that's given us, we take as a matter of course, has a wise man said. But nothing should be taken for granted. It's much easier to tear down than to build up. And if we want to maintain, further develop and renew our welfare society, we have to fight for it. We must fight for cohesion and solidarity and against unhealthy market liberalism, egoism, greed and power concentration. And we should also focus our attention on the conditions of the People's Rule and the ability of people to shape and take responsibility for their own future. Everyone agrees that prevention is better than repair. Human suffering can be prevented, while society will avoid excessive spending. This is why everyone is talking about measures for children and young people. I guess that's good. We want to build stable and good communities – of course – because we have a lot of knowledge and evidence that at an early stage good growth conditions and social networks can be crucial for the development of children and young people. In particular, it can prevent the development of gangs and crime and provide children and young people with access, security, self-respect and life satisfaction. This insight has many parents and idealistic adults. They will do something, create an offer – in the community and through non-governmental organisations and teams. It's the spirit of hard work, and it's the will to stand on. And we know that every penny from society to voluntary work gives many folds again and great positive ringing effects. The third sector is becoming increasingly important. So different governments and the Biggest have also been concerned with non-governmental organisations and the possibilities to strengthen their work. And they've now expected an increased effort. The government proposal at this point is too bad. And I don't like to say that, but I think the cultural budget is too bad. At a time when the need for art and culture, Community experiences and creativity are so strong, this area is becoming a priority. Does not the Workers' Party see the need to strengthen counter-forces against uniformization, commercialisation and flattening? People don't just have to live off, we need something to live for and something to live on. The ‘cultural school bag’ is a promising concept. But what's in this bag? I have looked for the concrete content and found that there is an idea and an information catalogue for all primary schools to be available at school in 2001. There should be measures on the school budget. So the government chooses to put it on a small and vulnerable cultural budget. Finally, let me express the hope that all good forces can be united, so that the political processes of the harvest can show both the will and the ability of constructive cooperation and responsibility for the country. I think a lot of people will actually appreciate it. It may not be easy, but it should go.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e1205	Any political party will claim to have the right view of value. If the population is to get an idea of which party is closest to their values, it will be a clear advantage that the whole of the party's policy comes into the light and into the social debate, and not just the popular good sides. Also, this persuasion debate bears the mark of populism from individual parties. The basic value of our welfare society has been the willingness to share responsibility, solidarity and distribution. I agree with those who have stated that it is a challenge that we do not lose the grip on people's values. Values are not something we create overnight, with popular short-term play. I am very pleased that the government of Stoltenberg has so clearly chosen a side in the value debate. The government's profile is clear both in the work to be done at national level and in the policy work to be done at international level. The social profile is so obvious that it has obviously fallen many in this room heavy on the chest. In isolation, it is a political victory. It clarifies the differences between the Workers' Party and the Right, and in particular the difference between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. When the Government is well-informed to implement the plan to cancel debt in poor countries, it is an investment in a safer future. A poor world is an insecure world. We cannot, as one of the richest countries in the world, waive responsibility for the poorest in the world. Very many people are concerned and satisfied that the appropriations for assistance will be stepped up, and that the Government is so clearly emphasising that education and health are priority areas in the fight against poverty in the world. Norway does not become poorer by this. A strong counter-argument in sending money out of the country creates attitudes that make people poor in the soul. It's not just through the throne government making its value choices visible. They will also be clearly expressed through the budget which the Stortinge will be dealing with later in the harvest. There are differences in Norway, and they did not get any less under the previous government, although much of Bondevik’s government’s policy was based on many of the same values as the Stoltenberg government relies on. It is therefore with great wonder that I have listened to some of the speeches that have been made in the debate. However, there is a clear political majority in this Chamber to include the weakest in welfare development, as pointed out by the Government. If there is political will, there can be very good results when the Spring Government is to present an action plan for the Cohesion Communication, which was presented by the central government. It will be exciting – and it may be crucial for the weakest in society – which side the centre parties choose in this value struggle this autumn in the Stortinget. Many people in the debate have said that many children and young people in Norway have a very difficult time and that many live below the so-called poverty line. It's not hard for kids to grow up without getting all that they have, but it's hard for kids to grow up when they can't afford what's common with people most, and it's the kids that's our responsibility. It's sad to see the increase in the number of children and young people who are rushing, walking and begging on the street. Many of them are very young, and many of them are very young girls. In my opinion, it is one of the greatest challenges facing the Norwegian welfare society. The government points to several targeted prevention measures. I welcome the growing-up and living conditions for children and young people in Norway, because we have no more time to lose in the fight against the drug.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e1226	In today's first post, Carl I. Hagen said it was a pleasure to record that we might welcome a new democracy. I fully agree with Carl I. Hagen on this. It is definitely a pleasure to record the developments taking place in Yugoslavia. It is also gratifying to note that the Government, with Foreign Minister Thorbjørn Jagland at its head, promises to go in with support for the new regime. I am very pleased with the role Norway seems to be able to play in Yugoslavia, only now through diplomatic support for the hopefully new democracy and possibly through financial support later on. Equally important will be our contribution to maintaining peace and security in this area. I'm thinking here of our involvement in KFOR. Until next year, Norway has been given the very important task of managing KFOR 5. This is a mission that gives Norway high international performance if we are able to perform the mission satisfactorily. In the evening post today, doubts are being raised as to whether Norway is able to handle a mission of this kind. It is noted that Norwegian officers do not have sufficient competence for this type of operation. I am very pleased that the head of defense rejects these claims in a press release today. The Chief of Defence claims that Norway is well equipped to carry out its mission to lead the KFOR force. He points out that Norway is one of the most suitable countries in NATO to carry out this type of mission. The Labour Party is also very pleased that Norway has been given this important mission, not least because of the experience gained in this type of mission that will bring about the Norwegian defence. The leadership function of KFOR 5 will be an excellent opportunity to demonstrate our will and ability to take responsibility for joint military tasks of major security policy significance for Europe. It won't be a simple problem. Norway will conduct a very complex military operation for six months. It involves the management of over 40,000 military personnel from over 30 countries. We are directly involved in efforts to combat violence and crime, reduce ethnic tension and abuse, and assist the UN in accomplishing major civilian tasks. The management of KFOR 5 will be able to supply Norway with much: We will engage directly with the major security policy actors. As I have pointed out in the past, our military management apparatus and our armed forces will be provided with very useful experience. Our overall weight and credibility within the alliance will also be strengthened. KFOR 5 also has an important dimension in the development of a common European defence and security policy: The management of KFOR 5 will demonstrate that Norway has a high level of military competence, which can also be used in future operations. The management of KFOR 5 will also show that Norway is ready to take responsibility for security in our part of the world. The management of KFOR 5 will demonstrate Norway’s ability to make real contributions to European peace and security. I am therefore very pleased that, through the next year’s draft State Budget, the Government proposes that our efforts in the KFOR should be given high priority, and that Norway should continue to play an important role internationally, both as a diplomatic contributor and in the security policy arena.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-10-2.ana.ud960e1269	Then the evening meeting came to an end. The first speaker in tomorrow's meeting is Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg.
