ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e27	The representatives of Terje Johansen and Anne Enger Lahnstein, who have been on leave, have once again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Northern Provinces, the Bears Olsen, has taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Right-wing Group on sick leave for the representative Bjørn Hernæs from 19 January onwards and until further notice from the Christian People's Party Group on sick leave for the representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad from 19 January onwards and until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. 2nd@item: inlistbox The representatives of the goods, for Hedmark County of Magnhild Byseth Olrud and for More and Romesdal County of Anne Lise Lunde, are called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e71	Magnhild Byseth Olrud and Anne Lise Lunde are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e76	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President is asking for proposals from the President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e81	I suggest Ursula Evje.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e86	Ursula Evje has been proposed as vice-president. – Other proposals are not available, and Ursula Evje is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting. The representative, Erna Solberg, will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e91	On behalf of the representative Børge Brende and myself, I would like to propose to instruct the Equation Offices to set an Equation Tariff for housing up to a maximum of 30 pst. of technical value or observable market price.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e96	The representative of Kenneth Svendsen will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e100	On behalf of the representatives of Siv Jensen, Erik Monsen and myself, I would like to propose that the diesel tax be reduced immediately to the level in 1999 and then in the revised national budget to be reduced to the average level in Sweden, Denmark and Finland, and in the 2001 budget to the minimum limit in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e105	The proposals put forward will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e126	On Monday the Storting received a notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following will meet for oral Question Time: Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik Minister for Foreign Affairs Knut Vollebæk Council of State Kåre Gjønnes The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, wish to ask themselves the main questions asked. – We start with the first main questions, from the representative of Thorbjørn Jagland.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e145	I'm going to leave the case that's dominated in the last few days since it's been under consideration in the committee. But I want to ask the Prime Minister about another big thing. Yesterday, it became known that Naturkraft is considering investing in the World Bank’s Climate Change Fund in developing countries. The aim is to contribute to reductions in CO2 emissions in developing countries, and there can be a lot of money left. This may compensate for the emissions of CO2 from gas power plants that Natural Power has applied for to be built. The thinking of natural forces is entirely in line with the principles of the Kyoto Agreement. The government has rejected the natural force application to build two gas power plants and also to use CO2 allowances in this way. I would like to ask if the Government does not now see it as necessary to look at this matter again, as such a movement has entered it, instead of continuing to import coal power from Denmark, which contaminates much more.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e154	In the case of gas power plants, the Government's policy is the same. We believe that it is little future-oriented to open the way for the construction of highly polluting gas power plants when it comes to projects that can give rise to pollution-free gas power plants. The assumption is of course that it will be economically sustainable, and I believe that we still have time to assess. In the case of the World Bank's carbon fund, the Government takes a positive view of that measure. It is, as far as I understand, an action that is intended to be valid until approx. 2012, which is the period for the implementation of the Kyoto Agreement. Money from countries as well as from private individuals can enter this fund for investment in developing countries, as well as in countries where it is defined as a developing country stage. This carbon fund is positive, because it can provide us with experience that is useful in implementing the Kyoto agreement, and poor countries can benefit from such measures. However, it is important to stress that the Kyoto mechanisms should not replace but complement domestic measures. Therefore, it is important that we act in such a way that such complementary instruments do not lead to the cessation of the development of more environmentally friendly gas power generation technologies. That is why the Government is in a positive position and will itself be involved in granting money to this carbon fund. But it does not make sense that we should now try to stimulate an environmentally friendly gas power technology, and not bet on a highly polluting technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e163	The Prime Minister now said ‘strongly polluting gas power stations’. In fact, Norway is now importing even more polluting coal power from Denmark, and if we are to wait for the new technology, which we hope will come, we will continue to import polluting coal power from Denmark. The CO2 emissions of the power plants are not expected. What's the relationship now, is that natural force is willing to invest in the World Bank's fund. Natural force itself says in a press release: ‘We hope to obtain some of the CO2 allowances we need for the gas power plants through this fund, but will await the processing of the energy message by the Stortinge.” This means that they wait and see if a new decision can be made in relation to these CO2 quotas, so that they can enter this fund and put in place gas power plants, both to secure investment in developing countries and to prevent polluting imported power from Denmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e175	As I said, we think it is a little forward-looking when we are now working on a new technology that can provide, across pollution-free gas power plants, that we must bet on old-fashioned technology that is highly polluting. I have with some interest and some wonder followed the Labour Party and the Labour Party leader's position on this issue. Thorbjørn Jagland himself stated so late as in April 1998 that Stortinget must not oblige Natural Power to build gas power plants with what can become an old-fashioned technology. That, I think, was a wise statement. Similarly, the Labour Party government and Jagland felt that emission permits should be treated by the SFT under the pollution law, as has been done, and 10 pst has been authorised. of what the two planned gas power stations in the West will represent. In government policy in this area, there is a line. I have a little bit harder to see in the Labour Party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e180	There will be follow-up questions – Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e183	The Labour Party does not intend to add to a policy where we exempt gas power plants from treatment under the pollution law, but we believe that the emission permit granted contributes to more pollution and not less pollution, because it states that we are still going to import a lot of power from significantly more polluting sources. It is to start developing gas power in Norway that we want to change the emission permits. Then we also believe that we are moving faster in developing more environmentally friendly technology than the Government has put it up to. Because what the government obviously doesn't understand is that while waiting for both the new legislation and for new technology, we are increasingly polluting through the imports that we have in most of the years, except for especially wet years. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he would be able to change the emissions permit that Nature Force has been granted, so that we can start using Norwegian gas in Norway instead of importing power, thus facilitating a more environmentally friendly policy, especially if the force of nature makes up for itself through Kyoto mechanisms and actions in the World Bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e190	Firstly, I do not agree in principle that if one permits high-polluting gas power plants by changing the emissions permit – that is, by accepting a much larger emission – it will in itself stimulate a more environmentally friendly technology. I think on the contrary that if you go into that line, you've kind of relieved yourself a little bit of the pressure that it should be to work for more environmentally friendly technology. We know that there are several serious companies that are now working for pollution-free gas power plants. If you give permission to the opposite, which is highly polluting gas power plants, I think the pressure to produce economically profitable projects that are pollution-free will be lower. So we don't have any plans. I think, as I said, that this should be as obvious as Jens Stoltenberg is now saying, that it is not very consistent with what the leader of the party said last April, that the Storting must not oblige Natural Power to build gas power plants with what can become old-fashioned technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e196	Carl I. Hagen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e199	The Prime Minister continues to point out that new technology is needed, that this is a technological issue. Today's newspaper shows that the technology is here, and that there is unlimited space for storing CO2 in previous oil fields. The problem, however, is that the cost of the technology that is known and that has not been notified of anything new makes this uneconomic. It's not a technological question. I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question: Is it the government's policy that we should perhaps double the energy price to Norwegian households in order to achieve the necessary economic profitability in pollution-free gas power plants, for which no new technology is needed, but which is simply uneconomic? Is it really the government's policy: to increase the price of electricity to households to make it profitable?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e206	No, it's not the government's policy, and it turned out from a previous answer that I gave, that a prerequisite, of course, to set off pollution-free gas power plants, is that there's going to be good enough economy in it. I am fully aware and have also seen the essay in the Newspaper today that such technology is probably just around the corner – perhaps already there – but the problem is to get it financially profitable. But there are serious companies that actually work for it, and that believe that it is possible to drive costs down, so that such projects can become realizable. It seems to me that government and uplifting should take time to see if it is possible, and of course without double the prices of power to households, as Carl I. Hagen suggested. It's not the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e213	Øystein Djupedal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e216	I'm sure the Prime Minister will be pleased to hear that there are at least some people here in the main hall who agree with the Government's position on the question of gas power plants, and I don't intend to give much credit for it. Nevertheless, we are facing a significant challenge. It is clear that if we build gas power plants, Norway's objective in the Kyoto agreement is even further away. Nevertheless, without having built gas power plants, we are today significantly above the emission requirements imposed by the Kyoto agreement. Looking at the emission projections ahead, there is every reason to believe that in 2008 we will be even more percentage points above what we are allowed to do under the Kyoto agreement. That is the question of how to already provide for measures to reach the Kyoto agreement. And then the challenge for the Government is: What concrete measures other than stopping planned gas power plants is what the Government has been thinking about in order to actually manage to reduce CO2 emissions? In the case of gas power plants, they're going to have more emissions than the total Norwegian aluminium industry, and it says a little bit about what extent we're talking about. But my question is, what action is the Bondevik government going to take to meet Kyoto's commitments?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e221	Of course, I am pleased with SV's clear position in the gas power plant. I had hoped that other parties too, which previously lay more on that line, had remained there, instead of suggesting a change of course. It is quite right, as Øystein Djupedal points out, that it is even more difficult for Norway to meet the Kyoto agreement requirements if we build polluting gas power plants based on older technology. Even without such gas power plants, we have to reduce emissions by – I think it is – about 24 pst. in relation to the current level of compliance with the obligations of the Kyoto Agreement. In addition, if we were to build the two controversial gas power stations in the West, that percentage, as we know, would increase by 4-5, and that would make it even more difficult. That is why we do not think it is a forward-looking policy either. When it comes to meeting the Kyoto requirements, the Government has already presented to the Stortinget a number of proposals for measures that bring us, as far as I remember, approximately. halfway, and we continue to work on further measures – excuse me, President – where you need to use both taxes and other restrictions to bring this down. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e230	And here the president has to use the clubs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e233	I have every understanding of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e238	Jan Petersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e241	I understand so much that the Prime Minister argues for what he stands for in this matter, but there is a lot of evidence to suggest that he can first and last reconcile himself with the fact that the majority of the Stortinge may think otherwise. My question goes on two things. When the Prime Minister talks about new technology, what are his time prospects? The danger at his point of view is, of course, that one should push far beyond the possibility of making use of this important resource for Norway in the future. The second question I want to ask is: why does he go so easily past the argument that, among other things, Thorbjørn Jagland mentioned that today we are dependent on imports of pollutants from abroad – yes, one can get in the situation that we export Norwegian gas to the rest of the world, and then to import electricity just added to this gas power. Is it actually such that the Prime Minister avoids talking about the important environmental issues in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e250	With regard to the time perspective, it is probably difficult for me to have a clear view of it, because there are also different signals on it from the companies working on the matter, and I cannot, on any professional basis, review those statements. But we know that Hydro is working on a project, Aker Maritime is doing it, as I understand it now, in collaboration with a serious international oil company, and we have what Carl I. Hagen referred to from the newspaper today. This I think is interesting things, and I think we should be able to wait if these can be realised on a financially sound basis. No, we don't easily go past the problem that Thorbjørn Jagland and others have pointed out when it comes to the import of power, on which we depend for large periods, which of course can also be produced from highly polluting energy sources. But we don't think one solves the problem of pollution in other countries by ourselves increasing our pollution. In that case, we have to have quota agreements in place internationally to control that any increase in us means a reduction in other countries, and we have such agreements that we do not yet know.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e258	Then we move on to the next main question, from Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e261	I also have a question for the Prime Minister, based on a statement in the Newspaper today. On the first page, it says: ‘Asylum applicants choose Norway in front of Sweden’. And inside the paper, it comes from branch director Henriette Munkebye in the Directorate for Foreign Affairs: ‘From 1998 onwards, Norway has signalled that we want to soften foreign policy while other European countries have tightened up.’ The result is an explosion in the number of asylum seekers arriving in Norway. In 1997, there were 2,271, and then, after the government softened, there were 8,374 in 1998, and in 1999 there were more than 9 000. The numbers aren't ready until next week. Will the Government sit still and testify that there are now about 10,000 asylum seekers every year in the future? What consequences will there be for many areas of Norwegian society when we already know the problems of integrating immigrants who have already arrived in Norway and the growing conflicts that exist in Norwegian society? Will the Government tacitly accept 10,000 per. years in addition to family reunification and other?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e272	That's right. The government is absolutely aware that we have softened refugee and asylum policies on a number of points, and that embellishment was largely widely endorsed here in the Grand Duchy, with a clear deviation from the Progress Party in particular. It's because this government wants to take solidarity and human rights seriously. Of course, such embellishments could represent a signal to relevant groups to apply to Norway for asylum. We were prepared for that, and we're building up a device to handle it. However, the fact that more asylum seekers come to Norway does not mean that all of them necessarily get asylum. It depends on the procedure in the individual case, and therefore I do not think that operating with these figures here is without a doubt adequate for the situation, because we are dealing with these matters individually. Except in some cases where there have been more collective arrangements for special war reasons, etc., they are treated individually and granted only if they meet the criteria of our foreign legislation. The fact that other countries are pursuing a more restrictive refugee and asylum policy cannot be ignored. We feel that we need to pursue a policy that is humane and fair as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e281	Hans Emanuelsson of the Swedish Immigration Service says: ‘We have a feeling that Norway has a higher profile internationally, and that therefore there are more who want to go to Norway. In addition, it takes longer to deal with applications in Norway, and this increases the likelihood that you will be able to stay in the country’. So the very opposite, the prime minister now said that you had built a machine. Reports in the newspapers show that no apparatus has been built, and that the processing time is much longer than that which has been the intent of the Storting. Nevertheless, it seems that the Government will not do anything to limit the number of asylum applications through a more restrictive policy. And when the Prime Minister makes reference to the fact that others too have been given collective residence, as far as I understand, it also comes to these figures, which are now about 10 000 per cent. years. How high is the annual number of asylum seekers, in addition to all the others who come, should be before the Government reacts to the many people who are happier and not refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e291	Let me first say that those who must be so-called happinesses, of course, do not get asylum in Norway on such a basis. We have a foreign law with criteria for this, and it is those who satisfy these criteria, who are allowed to stay, not so-called happinesses – so that that misunderstanding is not left. It is impossible to operate with certain figures here, because it is the law and the law that determine how many people will be allowed to stay in Norway, and not how many have applied. It doesn't determine how many people stay. That's why it's impossible to operate with certain numbers. We believe that the refugee and asylum policies that are now being pursued are reasonable, and they have broad support in the Storting. I agree with Mr Hagen on one point, and that is that the length of the procedure is still unsatisfactory in many cases, so we have not finished building up that apparatus and getting the arrangements that are needed to reduce the processing time. We're actually working on that right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e300	There will be follow-up questions – Lodve Solholm.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e303	The Prime Minister said that the queue was not that long, and that not everyone who is seeking asylum is allowed a break in Norway. But the problem is that the procedure is so long that there is now an accumulation in reception, and we see that even if the Prime Minister claims that there is a wide agreement, other than the Progress Party, in this Chamber, there are now more and more municipalities who refuse to accept refugees from asylum recipients, those who are waiting for permanent settlement. With the experience we are now doing, and we know that staying up in asylum receptions for a long time is not good for that debt, the question is, What will the Prime Minister do to meet the challenges and solve the problems associated with the large intakes? Would it not be better for a now reduced intake, so that one could accept those who are here, in a proper way, and achieve a better integration than what is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e308	I really think I've answered these questions a long time ago, but I'd like to elaborate on it and try to clarify it. Firstly, as I said, I agree with what Carl I. Hagen and now Lodve Solholm says, namely that in some cases the processing time is too long, and that it leads to an unfortunate accumulation of applications. But this is actually what we are working on in order to deal with, and there is a particular cooperation going on that includes several departments, mainly the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Local Affairs and Regional Affairs, which have different responsibilities in this field to get a job to get away from applications that have accumulated. It takes the government seriously. That this should make us now beginning to change our refugee and asylum policy, making it more restrictive and shutting out people we believe have a real need for protection, which is threatened in various ways, I will not advertise.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e317	Vidar Bjørnstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e320	The Labour Party agrees that we should take our international responsibility in relation to refugees and asylum seekers. And essentially, we agree with the guidelines laid down in the Government's refugee and asylum policy. However, with regard to its content, I would also like to reiterate the criticism of the practice in relation to both the treatment period for asylum seekers and the transition to integration into the Norwegian community in the municipalities, where there is disproportionate and regrettablely long waiting time, and where we have recorded that people have been in reception for seven years before a decision has been made or have been offered a residence in a municipality. Over time, of course, we cannot have a refugee and asylum policy that is significantly different from other European countries or our neighbours, but I note that the UDI says that in practice the difference is not so great. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: is it important here to have close cooperation with the EU in such a context? And question No. 2: We see that some come illegally into the country through international human smuggling. What will the Government do to prevent such crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e327	Firstly, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Workers' Party confirms that they essentially agree with the guidelines for our refugee and asylum policy, and that it is a solid majority for them in the Stortinget. Otherwise, I agree with the representative Bjørnstad – as I have already said a few times – that it is unfortunate that we have such a long treatment period as we have in several cases. It also makes integration not as good as it should be. There are considerable variations between Norwegian municipalities as to the extent to which they accept refugees and asylum seekers, it can of course also be linked to their economy and other circumstances. But we're now working on this, we're aware of just these two bottlenecks, and we want to fix the measures. As far as international cooperation is concerned, I agree with the representative of Bjørnstad that this is desirable. The Government will certainly have this, both with the EU and with countries that are not in the EU. We are serious about trafficking in human beings, we must combat it both through measures at our borders, cooperation agreements with the Schengen countries, and other measures that can contribute to more efficiency in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e337	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e340	As for today's hottest case, I would say that I think the committee is the appropriate format right now, so that also I will ask questions about another important area. I will ask the Prime Minister questions in the light of the speech he gave at the NHO Annual Conference, where he discussed matters of importance both for Norwegian ownership and for Norwegian jobs. There he was very clear that he now wanted to do something when it came to the property tax and the investment tax. And I would like to ask the Prime Minister: What proposals does the Government intend to make?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e345	Let me first say about the Telia-Telenor case, that I have understanding and respect for a desire to continue the treatment of it in committee. I have nothing to say about that. With regard to taxation that is significant for our business and therefore for employment, the Government is committed to making changes and that further improvements should be made to the framework conditions for our business. And in my talk at the NHO conference, I pointed specifically to two aspects. One relates to the option tax, and the other relates to the property tax. As of 1999, the option tax rules were relaxed so that options at the estimated value of less than NOK 600 000 were not taxed on wages and salaries by acquisition, provided that certain conditions had to be met. The government will now, in the light of experience with existing rules, seek further relief in taxation in order to enable business to make greater use of this scheme in order to link up and maintain particularly skilled employees. A current option would be to change the rules, so that options in employment first become taxable as remuneration on realization. In that case, the rules will be equivalent to those applicable before 1996. There are significant weaknesses also in current taxes on wealth by the fact that different assets are valued in part very differently. Therefore, we will now work on the question of a more uniform valuation of property, or a removal of property taxes. An alternative that some countries practice, as far as I know, is also that one does not have a wealth tax on so-called working capital, i.e. the one who stands in the company and works there for employment and growth, while they have it on other assets, i.e. – we can say – wealth more for private purposes. It's within these options the government will now work and come to Stortinget, and would like to contact parties that are busy the same thing, during the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e358	As far as I remember, the Prime Minister used the wording that he should look at these areas. And sometimes you get the impression that that's exactly what you're doing, you're sitting and seeing, but it kind of doesn't make any more of it. And my question is therefore: can we wait in these two areas for substantial, concrete, significant proposals for changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e368	As far as I remember my own statements, I said not only look at, but I also said work for changes in a direction that is positive for business, and therefore for employment and growth. That's our clear intention. That's why my answer to Jan Petersen's question now is: yes, one can expect changes of a material nature in the areas in which we've been involved, perhaps also in others, but it's these two that we now have in particular in focus. I also repeat that we would like to cooperate with parties on the Stortinget that I know are concerned with the same questions, in connection with the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e379	There will be follow-up questions – Øystein Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e382	In the Nordic or European context, the taxation of Norwegian enterprises is not particularly severe. On the contrary, most studies will show that the level of taxation in Norway is about in the middle, perhaps at the lower end. And that means that when Norwegian business believes that competitiveness is primarily improved by changes in the tax system, there is a truth with great modifications. But my question to the Prime Minister is: if you want to change the option tax, if you want to change the tax on wealth, and if you want to give other relief to business, you will still be left with the difference between taxation of capital and income. In the Adult Declaration, it is an explicit objective to reduce it, i.e. to achieve a relatively greater level of equality in the taxation of employee income and property and capital income. And then my question is, if you want to, you're going to go against what is the purpose of the Adult Declaration, and how does it harmonize? That could be my challenge to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e387	Let me first say that Djupedal is right in saying that in general one cannot say that Norwegian corporate tax is particularly hard compared to other countries, for example. the Nordics. But there are some unfortunate elements in corporate taxation that we want not only to look at, but to work to change, and I've pointed out a couple of these. As regards the relationship between the taxation of capital and compensation of employees, the Government has taken steps to reduce that difference. It has, among other things, rejected by a large majority. As far as the taxes on wealth are concerned, there are different alternatives, which I have also pointed out. It's a main problem that today there's a very different valuation of property. And one way to go can then be to try to get a more uniform valuation, and that would be a substantive change. Another aspect I pointed to is that one has in other countries, that one does not have a wealth tax on working capital in the enterprise in relation to other assets. There may be another way to go, and that will not lead to the problem pointed out by the representative of Djupedal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e396	Tore Nordtun – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e399	Now I want to ask the Prime Minister if he can help solve some confusion. The government has repeatedly asked for a review of the property tax, inheritance tax, investment tax and option tax. It's been asked by a bunch of people. But then the finance minister answered a question from Børge Burnde last Wednesday that what the government was working on now, and that would come in the spring session, were two things, the VAT reform and the housing tax/house tax. What does the Government bring into the spring session?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e404	Yes, we bring the two things, the VAT case and the housing tax. But we have also announced that we are dealing with additional tax issues, those that also the representative Nordtun pointed out that the Stortinget has asked the Government to come back with. In addition to the option tax and the property tax, which I have had in response to Jan Petersen, I also work with the investment tax and inheritance tax. So we're going to follow up what the Storting here has asked for, and that we ourselves have warned in different ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e410	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e413	In order to get a little variation, I will ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and I would like to ask how the Government intends to help with the enlargement of the EU, because I asked the Prime Minister for the same thing at the beginning of December, and then it didn't seem as if he had thought so carefully about what this would mean, except to support an extension of the EU in general. And that's important. I believe that most in Norway agree that such an extension is important for Europe and Norway. The Prime Minister has probably been even more concrete and talk about a national consensus on EU issues. I don't know if that wording is discussed in the Government, but at least it's also an important observation that there's a complete break-up of such support, for example. to the extension of the EU. But the most important thing for me now is to find out if the Government has found out what it can actually do in such an extension process, because we in the Labour Party intend to support the Government if it comes up with concrete proposals in such a work. We are therefore waiting for concrete proposals on how the Government can support the enlargement of the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e420	There are two things I want to make clear first. The first is that of course we have respect for the wishes of each country. That is why we have also underlined the importance of not creating new dividing lines in Europe in our general position on EU enlargement, but of respecting the wishes that emerge. Secondly, I would like to believe that the EU is doing a great deal of the enlargement process itself. I'm not sure you're going to look at Norway for help in the first place. However, precisely on the basis of the attitude we have taken not to create new dividing lines in Europe, we have been committed to facilitating the preparation of the countries that want membership as best as possible. What we have done specifically is to cooperate with the authorities of some applicant countries on the questions that we experienced were important in our search. We have also clarified this with the Commission, and it has been received positively. In addition to this, the representative will be aware that we have decided to pay a few hundred million kroner – I do not quite remember how much it is – in a regional fund to the EU. This fund is also intended to be used for the candidate countries. Whether that will happen is not quite certain, but we may be able to come back to the Storting and ask for additional funds to expand the fund that we already have, this regional fund, so that it can also include the new candidate countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e431	There are positive measures, and I also expect that one goes further than the financial support. Financial support is important, and I expect that the fund to which it has been referred here and to which it was referred in the previous round is the EEA Fund. Now it was such that the Government proposed to cancel it. It was actually after a round with the EU that this came into place again. Some particular long-term strategy was hardly behind it when one first proposes to delete it, and then it uses it as an argument for the extension. But it's too much history. My question is whether we can wait for more proposals from the Government in the same street to follow up the Prime Minister's positive support for what he says is a decisive development in Europe, simply the opening up towards the east, so that the countries that want it can actually join in. Would there be more concrete proposals from the Government in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e438	Firstly, it is not just about financial measures. These courses or seminars and discussions that we have are very practical and do not address economic issues. In the case that the Government proposed to cancel the Regional Fund, it is also not correct. It was proposed to close the regional fund we had, because we thought it was limited to five years, and then we wanted to look at a new fund that would pay particular attention to the new candidate countries. But it turned out that there was disagreement about this in the EU, and we then accepted to extend the fund we already had, even though we were supported by several EU Member States. But in addition to the fund we now have, we want, as I said, to look at the position of the new candidate countries. An area where we work specifically for new candidate countries is in the Baltic Sea Council, where Norway now has the Presidency. There we already look at practical work on institution building, and I'd like to come back to Stortinget with more concrete things that we can get support for in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e447	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e450	I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question. The State Council's statement on Telia and Telenor is in the Committee on Transport for consideration, but when the Prime Minister makes his spontaneous question the day after his Minister for Transport has been in a four-hour open hearing in the Storting, I expect that he is both prepared and perhaps even wants to express some of his opinions in this matter before the Committee gives its opinion. In yesterday's hearing, Councillor Dag Jostein Fjærvoll said the following: ‘The fact that a government council in the media is accused of not complying with information obligations or has misinformed is a heavy burden. It's the most serious thing a government council can really be accused of. If that accusation is repeated in this house, it is so serious that in my opinion, it means that there is something a Council of State cannot live with, when a majority had to do something like that, or if it does something like that." On a general basis, I would like to ask whether the Prime Minister shares Fjærvoll's assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e464	After all, Kristin Halvorsen also has considerable parliamentary experience. I think that the state council there in that way expressed yesterday is a general view and a rather natural case if it is about misinformation. That doesn't mean that there can't be any different views about how much information the Storting should get in different cases. It will always be a discretionary question, and there may be different perceptions and criticisms of it. It's something else. But a misinformation – it is in the nature of the matter that it is so serious that the state council's statements there yesterday, at my discretion, were a pretty obvious thing, not to say a natural thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e469	Then I would like to ask you an additional question. This matter has been handled slightly differently by the Norwegian and Swedish governments in relation to their parliaments. In the Swedish Riksdag it was the Council of State Rosengren who made the presentation when the merger broke, in the Norwegian collapse it was Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik who made the presentation when the merger broke. Is it possible for the Government to make a distinction between a criticism directed at the Minister of Transport in this case and the entire position of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e474	It's okay to try, but I think Kristin Halvorsen is fully aware that a prime minister obviously does not answer such a question now. It is probably several weeks before the matter comes to the plenary session in Stortinget. Such questions are handled by the Prime Minister there and now, and not now. But I can briefly explain why I have found it right as Prime Minister to make not just one, but two statements. I also held one in 1998, it was well, when the first merger attempt was stopped. The reason for that is that this is a big case, of importance to the entire government. After all, it also ended up at Prime Minister level in Sweden and Norway. And this Prime Minister has no intention of evading the responsibility of a matter in which he himself has been involved, and which is a major matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e481	There will be follow-up questions – Carl I. Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e485	I noticed the Prime Minister's reply that there was some misinformation about Stortinget that was serious. In this respect, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he also agrees that there are not in itself claims made by individual representatives who should be the decisive factor for a Council of State's assessment of their position, but that there are claims that have been made through voting, which are serious, and which, according to our parliamentary practice and use, force a Council of State to resign. So if it is decided in the Storting by voting that a majority believes the Council of State has misinformed, then that is why he has a duty to withdraw from his position. But there is a difference between a majority manifested in decisions and the claims of individual representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e490	I can essentially agree with Mr Hagen's presentation of this. It's clear that if something like this, that is to say, what goes on directly wrong information, should be expressed by a majority decision, then it's a pretty serious, but obvious situation and outcome. If that type of claim is made in the opinions of individual representatives, it would have to be the subject of assessment and judgement by the relevant Council of State, in consultation with its Prime Minister, if appropriate. It will not be possible to give an exact answer in advance, it will have to be assessed there and then how such statements are made, how many are behind them, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e497	Erik Solheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e500	I think we all understand the difficulty of drawing the line between what should be discussed now, and what should be discussed later, but I'll still try to address a little principled question on the basis of what was black by the Council of State of Færvoll yesterday. His line of defense was that it was not necessary to present what had been written in the letters from the law firms, because the government had taken this into account in its negotiating arrangements with the Swedes and in its handling of the case. The question becomes whether the Government is also obliged to provide Stortinget with information that is essential for those who are in the basic opposition to the Government’s course of action. SV was, as you know, skeptical and critical of the government's way of dealing with this matter from the outset, and also until the government was ordered by the majority of the population. Is it not also the right to obtain information that is crucial and which can strengthen their views in the debate that is about such a big and important and crucial issue?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e507	I agree with the general statement that information should be provided if it is essential for the Storting's handling of the case. So we haven't seen it like this. A number of contributions have been made to the Ministry from both economic, legal and other advisers during the negotiation process. These have been continuously taken up by the Ministry and tried to find solutions, and in this case, where voting rights were concerned, a solution was found through the shareholder agreement. Therefore, the Government did not find any decisive reason to submit that problematisation. We have other kilos of documents that have also problematized other issues, but on which we have found solutions. But it will always, as I have said before, be a matter of judgement how much such substance is to be transmitted. That this had had some decisive significance for SV's position, I have not very much faith in it, I would think it would have been the same anyway, and I do not know if SV had got more with him in his position if this had followed along.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e516	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e519	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. We know that Prior is currently being accused by competitors of using mafia-like methods to get his competitors out of play. [[Norwegian Egg Centres]] Today, the facts are that Prior has exclusive rights through a market regulation responsibility. This means that during periods this company can put its competitors out of play, for example. in the case of cheap sales. Today, we have a system in which all operators in the chicken market, private and cooperative, have to pay the turnover tax, but when cheap sales are made, only Prior can participate with self-produced goods, and we have a clear distortion of competition. Does the Council of State think that it is right and fair that Prior should use the means of placing on the market of its competitors to sell its goods cheaply?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e528	When it comes to accusations between market players, private and cooperative as such, I don't think it's my role to step in and take a stand for them; they get to put forward the way they think appropriate on their own basis. In the case of market regulation mechanisms, there has been a broad consensus in the Storting that market regulation as such is a responsibility of the industry itself. This is a different system than that, for example: are in the EU, where public authorities grant funds for market regulation schemes. In Norway, it is the producers themselves who, through charging, have to finance the measures necessary to find a market balance. This will, of course, also require those who have been given this responsibility, the cooperatives, to assess different measures to achieve the objectives they have set through the system chosen by Norway. In the big news that the Government has promoted, which is now in the Stortingen for treatment, we confirm that this is a system that we will also maintain in the future, and that market regulation responsibility and the relationship between supply and demand is a responsibility that the industry itself must take. It is, of course, important that this be carried out in a way that is acceptable to the public, and that is what we have in every context when they operate with their market regulation measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e537	It is true, as the Council of State says, that the market regulation system is a unique and, in my opinion, antique system for Norway, and within a year, a few years ago, three private poultry slaughterhouses went bankrupt, or they had to wind up their business. It was Rogaland Poultry slaughterhouse, Norwegian Bird and Hedmark Bird. So what happens in practice with the exclusive rights of market regulators is that they soon have an approximate monopoly on the chicken sector in Norway. If we had been deregulated to this market and got more real competition, maybe we as consumers would even be able to buy the chicken cheaper in Norway. There is a short way between the decision on the production of the product is ready for sale and it should be possible to sell chicken both at Dombås and Dokka and across the country without any market regulation arrangements. Will the Council of State take an initiative to ensure that chicken can be withdrawn from the turnover law?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e544	At least from my point of view, I am unable to see that the market regulation mechanisms have caused some companies to go bankrupt. There are many things that influence whether a company is profitable or not, it lies in the competitive system as such. I just want to confirm that from the Government's side we have given a message to the Storting through the message, and then, of course, the Storing will be able to discuss exactly the questions that Hedstrom is now raising. But our opinion, and what we are reporting to the Stortinget, is that we want to maintain the market regulation system we have today, in the way it is organised. We have announced that we will take a look at the composition of the Board of Commerce and the decision-making authority it has, what it is to be dealt with in the Board of Commerce, and what is of such a political nature that it should be dealt with by the Ministry. In addition, the Government has not proposed any changes through its message.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e551	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e555	My question is also addressed to the Minister of Agriculture. The agricultural message will come back to us in a rich monn, but I venture a little into it now, because it outlines the challenge that agriculture has, among other things. in the case of an increasing price competition for standard agricultural products, a competition which, of course, will increase when import protection is reduced, but which we also see today, as many Norwegians trade food abroad, especially perhaps in Sweden. That is why it is right and proper that the message focuses on the search for special food production, what we often call niche production, which today is turning towards a buying and paying market, a market area that often asks for it a little bit more special, the original and the genuine. We also see in some other countries in Europe that one has been well-closed. The analyses in the agricultural message are positive when it relates to the potential that may lie here. It's more surprising, then, that there's no action programme to achieve those ambitions. Can the Minister of Agriculture now state what measures can be taken here?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e564	I agree with the representative Rudihagen that agriculture has major challenges and actually got into a more creative thinking about the opportunities that can be found in niche productions in addition to producing the standard product, which I often call liters and kilograms. So we have too much of that, and we need strong measures to limit production compared to the market. If we are to be able to have an agriculture in order to have a living village, we need to have a creativity to develop an added value creation on the product, which can also trigger a greater willingness to pay for special products. This is fully mentioned in the message. We have also said that we want an action plan on this, and we have described in the communication the direction we think Norwegian agricultural policy should take in the future. The Storting feedback will provide the Government with a basis for action at those points where the Storing agrees with the Government – and I hope that it will apply to most of what is in the message. We have already set up a product development centre on the R & D side to provide better access for many of the small food businesses. We actually have approx. 1 200 food businesses that are food-related around Norway, and we are trying to coordinate knowledge so that these can also access this. But at the end of the day, we are also going to create a separate action plan for niche production, thus challenging each producer and at the same time giving more responsibility to the intermediate stage, with the support of public authorities to achieve this direction for Norwegian agriculture in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e575	I honestly thought that this would be a little small and a little bit tame. We had a message from the Ministry of Agriculture for treatment last fall, that is, the forest report. And there it was actually the same problem. One also realised that it was necessary to value the products in order for Norwegian forestry to be competitive. There it was concreteized a value creation program that we thought was very good, and that also had the Workers' Party's full uprising. I hope the Minister of Agriculture can agree with me that to close this, there is a considerable need for change, and a long-term, heavy, strategic effort is required. And then the question is, What about the Food Authority? What kind of thinking does the Minister for Agriculture have in order to make food monitoring more a partner than a consultant for this small production? And the second question: can the Minister of Agriculture outline how he could imagine such a value creation program through construction aid schemes and SND or what it might be?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e584	First of all, it is in the message that Stortinget has been given, that we want to set up a centre of expertise in North Norway that is specifically designed to get this niche production going in an exposed area like North Norway. This is a pretty big bet. We have further described what goes on in labelling schemes, regional labelling and speciality labelling, as product information for those who are going to buy the product. So there's already action going on. According to the forest notification and the value creation programme, now that the Stortingen joined it, the Government and the Ministry have launched a pre-project work to promote their final report by 15 April 2000, which will then provide the basis for furthering the programme itself. The government has followed up in a very good budgetary manner through the budget which has also been approved by the Stortinget. So I feel that in this area we've taken the initiative, and we're already in the process, but we can't go any faster than the Greatness has given us the clearance.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e595	We continue with the main questions – Svein Ludvigsen. – If time permits, the last main question will be asked by the representative Steinar Bastisen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e600	I have a question for the Minister of Agriculture. The Government decided on 7 January this year that the cheese producer Synnøve Find and others will only receive limited milk from the monopolist and the competitor TINE Norske Meierierier. In this respect, the Competition Authority states that the Government is thus preventing competition in the dairy sector because it favours the cooperative company Tine over private companies. The losers are consumers who have to pay higher prices for cheese and other dairy products, and ultimately the farmer gets less price for his milk. The Government's decision is also not entirely in line with the decision of the Stortinget when a new market organization for milk was established in 1995-1996. Its aim was to increase consumer choice and thus reduce the prices of dairy products in shops. The criticism of the Government by the Competition Authority that consumers pay higher retail prices than is necessary. And my question to the Council of State is whether he acknowledges that the decision conflicts with the interests of consumers and the desire of the Stortinge to increase competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e611	Treatment of the government by kgl. The resolution of this case has its background in a complaint from Synnøve Finden on a decision taken by the Sales Council. That's the background of the Government's occupation with that. The government's treatment has resulted in a partial observance of Synnove Find's observations and views in relation to the Council's decision on turnover. After the decision has become known, the government has received criticism from TINE Norske Meierierier, who believes it has gone too far, and the government has received criticism from Synnove Finden, who believes it has gone too short. The government's conclusion is based on an overall assessment of the tasks that TINE Norske Meierieri have assigned to the public through market regulation, and what we wish to have in order to create an opportunity for competition in the market, and from that point on, we have come up with a decision that seeks to accommodate as much as possible in relation to these two considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e616	I cannot entirely agree with the Council of State or be satisfied with the answer. On the other hand, I am more satisfied with the Competition Authority, which states that the decision taken by the Government is to the detriment of competition and therefore also to the detriment of both the consumer and the milk producer, because in this way, in order to prevent the higher price of milk actually prevents the increased production of milk. It is a problem that you have overproduction, so you should also be able to allow for increased delivery to the private producers. So my question would then be if the Council of State would not see it as an advantage if there was a complaint to the Competition Authority, which through its decision could push the Government to open it up for increased delivery of milk to Synnove Find and other private producers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e623	As a background to the Government’s conclusion in kgl. Of course, there is a broad discussion of the views expressed by Tine and of the views expressed by Synnove Find. There has also been consultation with the actors in the ministry. In this discussion, which was of course open, and in my opinion very thorough, the Competition Authority also came with its opinions on the matter. They were also on the table when the government made its decision. I believe that the Competition Authority does not review a political decision in the Government. They have made their views known in connection with the treatment done by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e628	The next main question will be asked by Steinar Bastisen. The President makes it clear that we are a little overtime, but with the permission of the Grand Duchy, the President will propose that Mr. The Bastisen is still asked his question. - No objections have been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e633	I have a question for the Prime Minister. The majority has decided that we should have a multicultural society in this country. We have been given a good deal of different religions, including: That's a lot of Muslims. The Koran says that a Muslim woman cannot marry a non-Muslim man or a Christian. That is not the case for a man, for a man can marry a Christian or a non-Muslim woman, for she then becomes the property of the man. If a Muslim woman of love allows herself to try to marry a non-Muslim man, she is harassed, persecuted, kidnapped, deported, often to the country of origin, where she is subjected to accidents, dies or disappears. This is documented on TV here in Norway. Does the Prime Minister see this as a future problem in Norway? And what action has the Prime Minister and the Government planned to take to ensure a minimum of human rights for these women?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e643	In general, let me say that it is clear that in Norway the Norwegian law applies, which also rests on the human rights conventions that we have acceded to. Therefore, of course, we do not accept such conditions as the representative Bastesen now referred to. People in such a situation are entitled to the protection of society, and action is to be taken on the basis of the law against those who have to implement them. It will be the government's policy. Of course, we must also have respect for other religions and religious freedom, and those who voluntarily follow the marriage rules prescribed by the Koran have full respect for it. But those who didn't have to do it, and who are exposed to such conditions as the Bastisen referred to, obviously the Norwegian society has a duty to protect.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e650	I have an additional question. This is often produced as a women's struggle, but it has nothing to do with women's struggle. There are questions of religious fundamental fanaticism. My supplementary question is: today we grant grants to private schools, including: we have decided to grant to Muslim schools where the kids are just going to chew the Qur'an and learn the customs that I have now referred to. Is it reasonable use of the money? And will that ensure the human rights I referred to instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e657	In my view, our private school law is just another expression of respect for human rights, including parental rights. If parents want their children to be taught in an alternative school, whether on the basis of pedagogical criteria or on the basis of life’s perspective, they should be entitled to support it. It actually has to do with democracy, freedom and human rights. But these private schools, whether it's Muslim or someone else, should of course also operate on the basis of Norwegian law. As I said, people who voluntarily follow the Koran rules in different areas are entitled to respect for it. But if someone doesn't, and then gets exposed to illegal acts, then it's society's responsibility to intervene and protect these people. And of course it will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e662	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e667	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Bjørn Hernæs to the Prime Minister, has been withdrawn. Question 2, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Finance who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e688	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e694	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, will be answered by the Minister for Finance, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e697	I want to ask the following questions: ‘As one of Hedmark’s largest transport companies, Våler Transport A/S sees need to take cars out of traffic as profitability has now become very marginal due to increased fuel prices. Does the Council agree that these charges will reduce Norwegian jobs and, in particular, in the long-distance districts in order to bring the goods to the destination?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e706	The question has been sent to the Finance Minister as the responsible State Council in the field of taxes and levies to the Treasury. Fees and conditions of competition for road freight have been assessed in a number of contexts, including: in the context of the follow-up to the Green Tax Commission. An important conclusion is that legislation and legislation on heavy transport have been harmonised through the EEA Agreement, so that the conditions of competition are similar for all carriers in the EEA territory. Fuel taxes in Norway are relatively high. The aim is that charges should cover the costs incurred by road traffic to society in the event of road use, accidents and environmental damage. However, the car diesel charge is significantly lower than the petrol charge, and analyses carried out indicate that the charge is not high enough to cover the external costs. The Green Tax Commission recommended that the car diesel tax and the petrol tax be treated in the same way. In principle, the fee should be equal for all fuels, corrected for differences in environmental characteristics and any other relevant characteristics. Otherwise, a few adaptations which are unfortunate for the environment and which weaken the income of the country may. The proportion of diesel-powered passenger cars has been observed to have increased in the 1990s, probably due to the large tax and price difference between petrol and diesel. From the end of the year the car diesel charge was increased by 13 kroner per person. litres in excess of price increases. However, the fee is 60 cents lower per cent. litres than for petrol. In addition, the CO2 tax is twice as high for petrol as for diesel. Overall, this gives a tax difference between petrol and diesel of 107 øre per. liters. From 1 January 2000, an additional charge of 25 øre per person was introduced. litres on autodiesel with at least 0,005 pst. percentage by weight of sulphur. The aim is to provide oil companies with economic motivation to deliver environmentally friendly diesel quality, which can contribute to improving local air quality. The rate of the charge of 25 øre is set after input from the oil industry, taking into account what is deemed necessary for a transition to such quality. According to industry data, the national budget assumed that this sulphur tax would not give any revenue to the country after 2000, because low-sulphur diesel would be available in the Norwegian market during the year. Later data show that this may take a little longer. Under the legislation in force, motor vehicles may, free of charge, introduce the amount of fuel contained in the normal fuel tanks of the motor vehicle but not more than 200 litres. For buses, the limit is 600 litres. This applies regardless of whether the vehicle is registered in Norway or abroad. Therefore, Norwegian carriers are not discriminated against with regard to the quantities of fuels allowed for entry into Norway. Late in the autumn of 1999, the Customs Service was asked to intensify its control effort towards heavier vehicles with a view to ensuring that no fuel is introduced beyond the permitted quantity. The new regulation on simplified presentation in the case of minor cases of illegal imports, which entered into force on 1 December 1999, also implies that the customs services have been given an effective means of sanctioning such infringements. It is too early to say anything about the impact of these measures. In my opinion, there is no particular reason to assume that the increase in car diesel charges from the turn of the year will give a significant difference in the cost of Norwegian and non-resident carriers. With regard to the costs for transport users, inter alia: for rural enterprises, this is a consideration that needs to be weighed against the consideration of social costs related to transport, including environmental costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e729	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which went a lot on why Norway has relatively high fuel charges, according to the Minister of Finance. If there are people in Europe who have higher transport costs with our transport needs, I would like to know – we charge NOK 37 billion and only NOK 10 billion go back. The government has previously stated that it is committed to providing the districts with a good framework. This must be allowed to question taxes, and in this case diesel and environmental taxes. The municipalities of Åsnes and Våler have approx. 400 lorry drivers. The total in Hedmark is 2,600, plus the ring effects. I can mention that at the Norwegian Forest on Braskereidfoss it goes about daily. 300 train trains in and out. These are cars that carry goods both in and out of the districts – in order for them to pass. It is not the railway that can satisfy the industry's needs, as this is no alternative to today's offers, and it is also difficult to transport goods directly from the forest or the ground on the railway. For example, you can take a company like Våler Transport, a company with 20 cars and 35 employees, which uses approx. 1 million litres of fuel. Does the Council not see that such an increase in charges will have to force the company to park cars and thus cancel people, with the consequences this will have for those who want to live and live in the district?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e734	As I said in my first answer, it is correct that we have relatively high fuel charges in Norway. Nevertheless, calculations, as I also said in my reply, show that the taxes on diesel do not cover the marginal costs, i.e. road wear, accidents, environmental pollution, etc. If you are concerned about the environment and society's costs, it is therefore not pointing towards reducing taxes. But of course, I have registered, not least on the basis of recent actions, that there is a dissatisfaction with the level we have in Norway. When taxes in Norway are now higher than in other countries, this is because we have chosen to pay more attention to taxes than to direct taxation. One could, of course, discuss whether it would be more appropriate to involve funds in the treasury via more taxes and less taxes. However, in Norway, we have preferred to do so in the form of taxes, because there are also other intentions than to raise income for the state fund, including the use of drugs. health and environmental aspects.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e739	I thank the Council once again for the answer. It's also strange, I think, that a government is charging one type of diesel to use another type of diesel. It is particularly strange when this type of diesel does not become available to all citizens of the country in perhaps several years. If you want to get people to use a different type of product than the existing one, it would be more natural to sell it on offer, that is, cheaper than the one that's already on the market, so that people would want to buy it instead of using coercion. Another important element in this context is the increasing crime of increasing diesel smuggling that we will receive, and also competition from foreign drivers. In the VG last Monday we can read about Polish drivers who do transport operations for a fraction of Norwegian prices. This also helps to exacerbate the situation of Norwegian carriers who want to do a decent job under the conditions imposed on them by politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e746	As for the end of Bredvold's posts, that Polish carriers can offer much lower prices, that is probably right. However, there should be no justification in the fees, it has a lot more to do with, among other things. the level of wages and salaries in Poland in relation to Norway. For the fees are in principle the same. In fact, these Polish cars can carry up to 200 litres of fuel across borders, but they also apply to Norwegian carriers who have been abroad. They can also take 200 liters of fuel across the boundaries. So, as a matter of fact, they're equal when it comes to fees. That it may be possible for Polish carriers to offer cheaper transport, I think therefore has more to do with other matters than the fuel taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e754	I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following questions: ‘What is being done to provide humanitarian aid to victims of the Chechen war, a special thought here of the most helpful ones such as wounded, sick, children and old?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e761	Norway was at an early stage in providing financial support to remedy the humanitarian situation of refugees in Chechnya, Ingushetia and Dagestan. So far, 20.3 million. spent for this work. Half of this is allocated to UNHCR coordinating emergency work in the region. The other half has been paid to Norwegian organisations, of which 7.5 million. kr is given to Norway’s Red Cross, 1.5 million. kr is given to the Refugee Council and 1 million. NOK to the Church's Emergency Aid. Both the UN and voluntary organisations operate in a pact with standards to ensure that emergency aid comes to those who need it the most – injured, sick, children and old. The Norwegian aid is mainly for the distribution of emergency supplies to the most needy in the form of food, medicines, hot clothes and tents. Weights are also added to the purchase of local equipment. There have been positive reactions from the UN to the rapid response of the Norwegian organisations. Both UN and Norwegian organisations' ongoing emergency aid operations are secured by January, but there is clearly a need for more. The UN will present a revised appeal during January to cover the period from 1 February to 1 June of this year. The government is prepared to make new contributions. We also consider further support for emergency aid operations in the area through Norwegian and foreign non-governmental organisations. Let me also stress that it is essential that the safety of auxiliary staff is ensured. The security situation is now very tense, and we want to avoid endangering the lives of auxiliary workers. Internal conflicts in the area in general, corruption and poor road networks place restrictions on the efficient distribution of emergency aid. Together with other countries and relevant organisations, we are working to get emergency aid. I will again address this with Minister of Foreign Affairs Ivanov when I meet him in Moscow on 1 February.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e770	It is obvious that the need here is very great and will remain in the time to come. The need is particularly great, as I know, for medicine. In some areas, there is today anaesthetic-free surgery. They get a stick to bite at because of the lack of very substantial medicine. Twenty million. kr is not much in this context. It's very small. And it is obvious that there will be a much greater need in time. Today, we spend about DKK 1 billion on a Norwegian military presence in Kosovo, so that we can work with others to make it safe there. At the same time, as I know, we still use hundreds of millions of dollars in Kosovo Albanians who are here in the country. Would it not have been best to get them home as soon as possible, so that the resources we use today can be transferred to Chechnya?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e777	I agree with the representative of Godal that the need in Chechnya is great and will probably increase. But I am a little surprised by the representative's link between the situation in Kosovo and the situation in Chechnya. We are present in Kosovo. It also costs a lot of money. But just to ensure that we do not have to sit with Kosovo for a long time, I think it is important that the work done there is as good and thorough as possible. It is my understanding that a number of Kosovo Albanians themselves want to travel back, but it must of course be an ordered return journey, so that return does not lead to further problems for those who travel themselves, or for the area. As far as Chechnya is concerned, as I said, we will consider giving more money when there is an appeal. The problem with Chechnya is that it has been difficult to obtain funds and equipment precisely because there has been an ongoing war there.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e787	I would like to ask the following questions, also to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘On the basis of the principles and arguments underlying the international community’s series of actions against Serbia and the Serbs for their violations of human rights in former Yugoslavia and which Norway actively supports, what action will the Government take against the Russians for their actions in Chechnya?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e794	On the basis of the international community’s action against Serbia, a number of binding decisions were taken by the UN Security Council. Security Council Resolution No 1199 of 23 September 1998 concluded that the situation in former Yugoslavia posed a threat to international peace and security. The absence of similar decisions in the context of today’s situation in North Caucasus does not exempt Russian authorities from complying with international law in their management of the Chechenia conflict. The rules are reflected, inter alia, in: in Article 3 of the 1949 Geneva Conventions. This provision contains minimum standards and applies in the case of armed conflict on its territory, even if the conflict is not of an international nature. Russia has also committed itself to the exercise of fundamental human rights. We do not dispute the fact that Chechnya is part of Russia. We also support the fight against all forms of terrorism. There can hardly be any doubt that some Chechen groups are responsible for acts of terrorism. In my view, however, the conflict cannot be resolved by military means alone. Unfortunately, it must also be noted that the Russian authorities have not taken sufficient account of the civilian population in their warfare. The situation of the people of Chechnya is now very difficult. The humanitarian situation is probably most acute in the capital city of Groznyj, which has been isolated and subjected to severe rocket and artillery attacks in the last month, and, as we know, just these days are subjected to direct attacks where one goes from house to house, quarter to quarter. Based on the Russians’ own data, it has to be assumed that some 40,000 civilians still live in the city. We have to assume that the supplies of food and medicine to the inhabitants of the isolated capital are minimal. The war in Chechnya became the most important issue on the OSCE agenda in the last months of Norway’s presidency. As the OSCE President, I had an active dialogue with the Russian authorities about the situation in Chechnya. The need for a political solution to the conflict has led to the Government's commitment. As the representative of Godal is familiar with, I myself was in the North Caucasus in mid-December. The journey gave strong impressions from the war zone and from refugee camps in the region. However, the Russian authorities maintain that there is no desire for international involvement in the management of the Chechenia conflict, which is regarded as an internal Russian matter. However, in the Istanbul Summit declaration, the Russians have agreed on the need for a political solution to the conflict and that the OSCE can contribute to achieving this objective. I am deeply concerned about possible regional consequences of the conflict. The government wants to contribute to strong international pressure on Russia to stop the acts of war. I have repeatedly addressed with the Russian authorities the need to establish a dialogue with Chechen representatives to seek a political solution to the conflict. In this context, the recent visit of a delegation from the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Moscow is of importance. The conversation between President Putin and Lord Russel-Johnston underlines the seriousness of the situation. Only a political solution can ensure lasting peace and contribute to stability in the region. The international community is characterised by increasing impatience in the behaviour of Russian forces in Chechnya. Continuous assessments are carried out of actions against Russia that can contribute to the resolution of the conflict. Neither Norway nor any other country has so far assessed the use of sanctions as an appropriate tool to press Russian authorities. In my view, the imposition of sanctions could lead to further political isolation of Russia and make it difficult to engage in a political dialogue between the parties. However, the government is following developments closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e820	I thank the Foreign Minister for the answer. I want to pay tribute to the effort he made in this area at the time he was the OSCE President. What we are trying to do today is, of course, to develop an international legal order. It's far ahead, but we're gradually moving forward on that road. But I think it's absolutely decisive that if we're going to get anywhere in this area, it has to be a reasonable similarity to the law, also internationally. It will be impossible if small sinners like Milosevic are to be punished in the way in which he is punished, and for good reason, if others who do much worse things, like now in Groznyj, are not to face anything at all, not even financial sanctions. Then the whole international legal system comes into disrepute, and it will be very unfortunate. Otherwise, I would like to mention that when it relates to the status of Chechnya, two agreements have been concluded. The one from 1966 stated that the status of Chechnya should be decided in negotiations by 2001. The second of May 1997 provides for all future disputes to be settled by peaceful means. We need to think about this when we evaluate the status.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e829	To characterize Milosevic as a little sinner, that he belongs to the group of small sinners, I think is remarkable. I am not sure that the representative of Godal will fully accept that statement. I have to say that what happened in Kosovo was terrible and a blatant violation of everything we understand with respect for human dignity. But it does not prevent me from agreeing with the representative in terms of equality of law, and that it is a problem to deal with different international actors in the same way, because we often see it in a context that is larger than just the concrete conflict it is about. However, I would like to point out what I said at the outset about the UN involvement in the Kosovo conflict, while stressing that we have by no means left Russia alone. We have a constant pressure on Russia, and my hope is that it will bear fruit through pressure and dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e836	When I said "little" about Milosevic, it wasn't the sins I was talking about, but Serbia is a small country that is impeccable to punish. Of course, it is necessary to choose a method that is justifiable, but I believe that to Russia there is a range of means that could be, for example, Russia. in the economic field – otherwise we are in reality involved in financing the war – etc. And I think that if the Russians are to make the experience that they can do anything without encountering serious reactions, it's going to be so much easier for them to re-start these things. If they had met serious sanctions during the war in 1994 - 1996, I think there is a far greater chance that they had not started over now. When it comes to Norway's hold, I thought that we tend to be very moral when it comes to problem far away, but that we have a sad tradition of laying ourselves completely flat if the Russians are involved. I hope that if the Council of Europe, under Lord Russel-Johnston, will now come to them, for example. will suspend Russia from the Council of Europe, Norway will support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e845	If action is to have an effect, I think it is very important that the international community stands together on such measures, and we have tried on the Norwegian side to help in different contexts where it has been natural. At the same time, I think it is important to remember that sanctions, boycott, are the last resort in an international instrument. We want to try to get an impact on our vision through a dialogue, through a joint effort. It is my hope, as I said earlier in my reply to the representative of Godal, that this dialogue should bear fruit in our contacts with Russia. I want to remind you that we tried this to Milosevic. We had a dialogue until March 24th, and it was as a result that he would not at all comply with the international community that we went to war. And it is my hope that it will of course not be necessary in relations with Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e855	‘Recruitment to the fishing profession is also a challenge for the authorities. For example, a 22-year-old from Senja has been fishing on his own boat for 5 years without getting a vessel quota. This means that he has to fish for the maximum quota system and thus has much worse framework conditions than fishermen most. This is considered natural enough to be very unfair. Will the Council of State do anything to ensure that those who have shown that they will become fishermen almost regardless of the conditions will also receive vessel quotas during 2000?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e862	In the case of cod fishing for vessels less than 28 metres fishing with conventional gear, the issue of re-allocation of participant access has been raised most frequently. The regulation system is such that vessels meeting the conditions for participation in Group I have a higher cod quota than an equivalent vessel participating in Group II. However, both groups are regulated with maximum quotas. Group I is a closed group and there is no ‘recovery’ from Group II to Group I. Each year some allowance factors are released in relation to the fact that some vessels previously admitted to Group I no longer meet the requirement for previous activity. When a number of vessels disappear from Group I, the question arises as to whether new vessels will be released into this group. In the context of the adoption of a regulation on access to the cod fishery for vessels less than 28 metres fishing with conventional gear north of 62o N in 2000, the Ministry of Fisheries in the hearing note proposed that the withdrawn quota factors be used to carry out certain group I new allocations. The reason was that no new allocations had been made since 1997. However, of the hearing bodies that expressed their opinion, only the Norwegian coastal fishing teams were in favour of the Fisheries Ministry’s proposal. Norges Fiskerlag, Landsforeningsvereningens Landsforening og Fiskeridirektoratet e.g. would instead use withdrawn allowance factors to strengthen the allowance base for vessels already admitted to Group I. In view of the opposition of the main hearing bodies to the proposal for a new allocation and the annual reduction of the cod quota since 1997 and now below half the 1997 level, the Ministry of Fisheries did not consider it appropriate to make a new allocation in 2000 as proposed in the consultation note. Another contributing reason is that the allowance base is also too low for sailing and hoisting. Therefore, the quota factors withdrawn in 2000 could instead be used to strengthen the quota base for the remaining group I vessels, which thus have lower maximum quotas in 2000 than they had in the previous year. However, I would like to make it clear that it is important to ensure the recruitment of the fishing industry. This industry is known as strong growth, and it is therefore important to have competent young people who can take over when the generation over will retire. The question is referred to a specific case where a young fisherman with his own vessel is not allowed to participate in Group I for five years, and consequently also does not receive as much cod as he wants. However, it is important to be aware that many others — young and old alike — who are currently participating in Group II want and have the capacity to participate in Group I. Thus, the case used as an example is not an individual case. I intend the Regional Director of the Directorate for Fisheries to draw up estimates for their respective counties of all-year-old coastal fishing vessels in the cod sector as per. is currently not allowed to participate in Group I. Such an overview could be used to assess whether new allocations will be made in the future and in the case of vessels to be admitted to Group I. As a general rule, the withdrawn allowances in each State will be the basis for reallocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e881	The quota regime is a serious fisheries policy challenge, and it is a threat to the Government, especially when it is enforced in such a restrictive way as the Council of State expressed here. That's the way the Council of State says, that those who are in the industry want no more to be involved. But Troms Folkeblad can tell us about Håvard Pettersen from Senja who has rowed fishing since he was 17, and who has now been in the industry for five years and invests in a boat for 1.6 million. kr. There are not so many young people who show such initiative and ability to be in the industry on such poor framework conditions, and then I get a little specified when the Council of State becomes so square – if it is a parliamentary expression – that he does not see that here there is a small group of young people who Norwegian fishing industry needs to be hurt, and then they will not be involved in breaking up the quota regime. I am aware that the general public is closed, but it must be possible to go down to the department and re-assess whether this small group of young people as the industry needs can have a flexible system that allows them to get as good a framework as those who have been in the industry for a long time and who are able to buy boats with quota.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e890	As I said, the regulations in fisheries are laid down in consultation with the industry. And the advice from an overall industry, I can see, was clear. They accepted the proposal made by the Ministry of Fisheries in the consultation note to make a new allocation. It was, therefore, with the background that we have had such a sharp reduction in cod quotas throughout the years since 1997, which has led to a very weak profitability and operating base for the year-round active fleet, that we found it appropriate not to allocate recruitment quotas. Now it is not the case that the Ministry of Fisheries or the Minister of Fisheries can freely pick out the individual who is applying and say that you should be moved up in Group I. This has to be done under the Administrative Act, and it involves a country-wide call. And there's no small group it's about. If I remember the numbers correctly, Group II includes over 3,000 vessels, possibly even more, and there might be a lot of them that might have a good reason for moving up. So relocation in Group I must be done in the ordinary way according to the rules we have to govern. But, as I said, we have an ongoing assessment of when it would be correct on the basis of an overall assessment to do new recruitment, as I explained in my first answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e899	I'm very concerned about the recruitment of the fishing industry, and I don't know if I'm going to be satisfied with the fact that the Council of State has an ongoing assessment, because while the Council of State has an ongoing assessment, I'm afraid the youth doesn't choose the fishing profession because it's too difficult to get in. It may not be possible for the Norwegian fishing industry and quota regions to be completely destroyed if the small group of young people who have shown over time are willing to invest in this industry – and as industry and districts so need to be hurt – now escape within the system. I'm asking the government council not only to have an ongoing assessment, but actually to run down to the department and see if the group we're talking about for recruitment is far, far less than the 3,000 to which he refers. It is in my opinion a relatively small group of young people we are talking about here, who have shown that they will be in the industry almost anyway, and then I don't think those who have been in the industry for a long time are going to be allowed to shut them out. I notice that the Coastal Fishery Team is at least positive that we are going to increase recruitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e906	It is the case that the broad recruitment to the industry is not necessarily primarily by recruiting new shipowners or fish owners. It is also important to recruit young people as crews and officers of the entire fishing fleet, and that it should be profitable for them to choose the fishing profession as a nourishment. And then it's important that the ships on which they're going to model on board have an operating basis that gives a reasonable annual profit, because it's supposed to be attractive in the fishing industry. From the resources available today, we can say that we have too many fishing vessels in Norway. At least the strongest appeal point from the industry is that the operating base of the individual fishing vessel is too poor. And then it's no small matter to expand the number of vessels that will have the right to harvest from the limited resources that you have. It is a dilemma that the fisheries authorities must take seriously. We are under the responsibility of fisheries legislation to make regulations in cooperation with industry through the Board of Regulators, and where the industry has given its clear advice, I would say.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e917	I have this question to the Minister for Fisheries: ‘The County Plan of the Trom County Council proposes that the Directorate of Fisheries and parts of the research tasks of the Marine Research Institute be transferred to Tromsø. The administrative and research work carried out by the Institute of Marine Research and the Directorate of Fisheries over 100 years from the base in Bergen has played a major role in Norway’s strong position in the international trade union environment and in the development of fishing industries. Will the Council of State work to ensure that the institutions remain in Bergen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e926	The Ministry of Fisheries has not formally received the County Plan for the County of Troms, but is familiar with the content. Let me say that moving these institutions from Bergen to Tromsø is not a matter that is being worked on or planned in the Ministry of Fisheries. As far as research is concerned, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Fisheries receives administrative advice from the Institute of Marine Research, which is located in Bergen, and from Fisheries Research, which is located in Tromsø. We must always assess the most rational and efficient use of our total research resources. Job sharing, coordination and cooperation are instruments to achieve this. [[Council of State Angelsen]] In 1999, fisheries research was entrusted with advisory responsibility for some coastal resources, king crabs and coastal areas — a relatively modest share compared to the total effort. I see this division of labour as rational and natural from among others. that there are resources that have their weight in the northern parts of the country. In addition, it will contribute to strengthening the research environment in Tromsø, and this is important in view of the overall research activity in the Ministry of Fisheries. The Institute for the Exploration of the Sea has the primary responsibility for the advice of resources and the environment. There has been a clear desire on the part of the Ministry to strengthen the role of the Institute in relation to the significant tasks related to the management of the main commercial fish stocks that we manage in cooperation with other nations. Against this background, the Marine Research Institute has seen a significant increase in the 2000 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e941	I thank you for your answer. Once I have asked this question, it is because the wishes of the Troms politicians have aroused some concern also in the Bergen environment. The curtain is said to have great potential in the development of marine resources. The fishing industry may be the most important crop industry we'll have in the future. It is clear that both North Norway and the West must be allowed to participate in such a high level of growth, based on the resources available. But then the question of doing that is by weakening a professional environment that has evolved over a hundred years. Together with the Institute for Marine Research, the Environment at the University of Bergen and the industry, the Directorate for Fisheries have developed a unique environment that has made Bergen a focus in marine research, management and education – also internationally. I am pleased with the Minister for Fisheries' response, and I interpret it so that he will work for the institutions to remain in Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e950	Let me say that the Minister for Fisheries is working on the fact that the institutions are where they are. What will be the situation in the future, I think we all have to be open to. The Minister for Fisheries sees no reason to put any obstacles to a public debate that may arise. Norway is, after all, a democratic country, and we should be happy about that, so anyone in society, and at different levels, is allowed to raise the debate they might want to travel. But, as I said, this is not a matter for the Ministry of Fisheries. What we see as the most important thing is that we develop our research environments based on the potential they have, and what the authorities need to increase research in different areas in relation to the growth opportunities we see in the fishing industry, and there will be a challenge for all the research environments we have in Norway today. I believe that the main challenge for the public research community will be that they see the challenges and are able to take on the transformation that must necessarily take place both in thinking and in work in the years to come. But I imagine that cooperation will be the most important thing. There is today increased cooperation, and the example of the new marine research vessel, where there is also a cooperation between HI and the University of Bergen, is a good example of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e955	It is clear that a public debate is important in this area too. However, such an important decision as the location of these institutions with the tasks to be performed by them cannot, at least, be taken by means of a decision approving the county plan. I hope the Minister for Fisheries agrees. It is clear that research environments need to be developed here. But, based on the resources we have both outside the West Coast and in North Norway, my point is that we must not weaken the environment that is already there, and I assume that the Minister for Fisheries agrees with the heart. If you're looking for a district policy, then SV is the first to discuss how to strengthen the environment in North Norway. But at least you don't have to move the only state directorate in Bergen – then you might have to discuss moving other jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e962	To make it clear, I have not stated whether the debate that has taken place from Troms is important. I have just said that it is not a matter in the Ministry of Fisheries, but the Minister for Fisheries does not see it as his task to prevent any debate, it is allowed to go its way. With regard to the research environments, as I said, there will be plenty of tasks, and there will be a need for greater resources for research and in a broader range than what we see today. There will be a need to increase resources overall for research and for all the institutes, and greater cooperation will be needed. I don't see the need to move any institutions for district policy reasons, but I probably see the need to move jobs in the future. I can't now specify anything like this. We've done what we think is right today. However, in the future, as development progresses, there may be a need to do the division of labour differently from it today, to get the best out of research resources, and to produce results as quickly as possible. What must be policy is the optimum use of public resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e972	I want to ask the Minister of Finance the following questions: ‘In Consumer Report No 1/2000 we can read about a person who was injured to pay a toll on a car that was to be wrecked, instead of on the family's new car. She immediately called Oslo and Akershu customs district, who promised that this would be done. After almost 2 years nothing has happened. Is this a proper procedure?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e981	Under the Administrative Act, a case shall be prepared and settled without undue delay. Furthermore, under the Administrative Act, a preliminary response is required as soon as possible if it is to be expected that it will take disproportionately long time before the enquiry can be answered. The annual charge on the car is charged to a large number of persons, about 2 million each year. The large number of taxable persons is reflected in the amount of enquiries and questions to Customs about the fee. Against this background, the time between cases could also be longer than desired. With regard to the relevant matter referred to here, I have been informed from Oslo and Akershu customs department that there were several reasons for the delay. On the one hand, there were problems with the transition from one computer system to another, and on the other hand, there was a lack of procedures to identify whether the case was completed as intended. Against this background, the customs district manager of Oslo and Akershus will go through their routines to avoid similar problems in the future. In addition, the Customs and Fee Directorate will follow up the case both concretely and in general. I therefore assume that similar problems can be avoided in the future. After I have been informed, the specific matter is now being resolved with an expeditious payment to the applicant.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e994	I thank the Council of State for the answer and for the fact that the matter is now being resolved with a quick payment to the applicant. It is also good that the customs district manager of Oslo and Akershus will go through their routines to avoid similar problems in the future. What is not so good is that such a simple matter must take two years, with many reminders and irritations for those who have been affected by such a situation. Does the Council see the possibility that, in addition to the sum paid, an interest-rate compensation is also provided, as the public imposes on us consumers when we are too late to pay bills to the public? In addition, it comes from the public also with an additional fee. Furthermore, can the Minister of Finance indicate what ‘disproportionately long time’ is under the Administrative Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1003	I agree that it is not satisfactory that it should take two years to clarify a matter that should be as simple as the one we are now talking about. But I tried in my first answer to explain – at least give some explanation – why it could take as long as two years. It's only now that we've been able to figure this out for our part. Now at least the matter will be resolved, and the payment will happen with it all, the very first in the specific case. Then we must also assume that the measures now being taken, both from the Directorate and specifically from the customs district, will lead to no such delays in the future. The question of whether interest should be paid in addition to the refund of the amount, I will not take any position here and now. I see that question can be raised. Because it's undisputed that when people owe the state money, it's a relatively fast rate of interest, while there's a little less automatic in it when money is to be repaid.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1013	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister for Finance: ‘How many jobs can the Council of State accept loss, especially in the districts, due to anti-competitive charging policies?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1020	The fees serve several purposes. The main objective is to provide the country with income. In addition, charges are used to limit the consumption of products harmful to health and the environment. Some of the charges are also differentiated between regions, among others. with a view to promoting jobs and living conditions in vulnerable parts of the country. The overall level of taxation in Norway is higher than in most other countries. Many Norwegian enterprises and industries may thus show that they are subject to higher taxes and charges than their competitors abroad. It will not be possible to adjust all taxes and taxes to the levels of the competing countries without losing significant tax revenue. Thus, it is not to be avoided that the high level of taxation may give rise to distortions of competition for individual industries, although I believe that many of the taxes and taxes affecting business in Norway are not significantly different from those of other countries in Europe. In several areas, we have chosen to use the charging system to promote better health and the environment, for example: by having high taxes on fuel, alcohol and tobacco. For example, environmental taxes have a legitimacy in themselves by providing households and businesses with economic motivation to take account of the environmental disadvantages they cause to others. In some cases there may be a conflict between environmental considerations and short-term employment considerations. However, this is not always the case. Several analyses referred to by the Green Tax Commission suggested that increased environmental taxes combined with reduced taxes on labour could both increase employment and improve the environment. In order to ensure living conditions and employment in rural areas, several of the charges are regionally differentiated. The main tax policy instrument for stimulating employment in districts is the differentiated employer charge. In addition, all or part of North Norway are exempt from VAT and excise duty on electricity, and domestic passenger charges on flights apply only between Oslo and the four largest cities in South Norway. I therefore believe that important elements of the charging system promote employment and living conditions in the districts and that there is no loss of jobs in the districts due to the charging policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1031	I note that the Minister of Finance is at least moving somewhat in relation to what the Government claims in its budget proposal, that increased diesel taxes will have little impact on the competitive situation between Norwegian and non-resident carriers. Can the Minister of Finance, from the Central Party, really provide such an opinion when we know that the total charges for the transport industry are already higher than for enterprises in comparable countries? An ironic question, perhaps, but: Does not the Council of State, of the Central Party, know the geography of this country? And does the Council really believe that these transport costs, due to distances and charges, do not involve competitive disadvantages, for example when the fish are to be transported from the districts? And when our carriers have to increase the price by up to 20 pst. due to increased charges, while their competitors in comparable countries have a stable framework, does this not distort competition? I am actually tempted to ask: How far is the Council of States willing to go in its EU-friendliness by putting Norway outside? Simply put, how many jobs can the Council of State accept being lost in the districts and in general?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1040	That Norway with its geography etc. has high transport costs, it is not possible to disagree with them. That's it. However, on the question of whether Norwegian carriers are faced with a worse competitive situation than non-resident carriers, the answer is probably somewhat more reserved on my part, at least as regards the impact of the diesel charge. There may be other factors that might result in non-resident carriers taking orders from Norwegian carriers, for example: as the level of pay in other countries may be much lower than in Norway. However, in terms of fuel prices — and taxes — they are the same for non-residents and for Norwegians when they fill fuel in Norway. So, of course, it's possible to bring some fuel on your mind when you cross the border, fuel that can be purchased at a significantly lower price than in Norway. But it's not special for non-residents, the same is true for the North. And here, there are limitations, as we know. You can't carry more than 200 liters in the tank of a trailer across the border. Something else is if there are illegalities and larger quantities are included, but before Christmas there is an instruction given to customs to intensify the control of.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1049	I record again that the Minister of Finance is seriously reducing all taxes and taxes imposed on business in this country. In addition to the increased diesel taxes of the Workers' Party and the Government, we know that employers' fees will also increase in the districts now. And the trade leak is no longer to talk about, because we all know about it. So if the Government's opinions in the draft budget are determined by the Council of State, is it my question: is it the unknown agenda of the Central Party and the Government to clean up the private business districts and fill them with state agencies? Or does the Council of State think that the pain limit is soon reached? One more question: I was – just to give an example of the charging policy in this country – in contact with the Tyrolean and circus industries. They have now signaled that from the year 2000 there will be no tournament north of the Trondelags because of the level of charges. Then it will be Swedish, Danish and Finnish tivoli and circuses that enter this area. There is also a consequence of the charging policy in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1056	I think circuses, as an example of business in Norway, may have been a little special. But let's do it. As I said instead, it is that when non-resident carriers, e.g. Sweden’s or other countries’ circuses, fuelling in Norway, of course they have to pay the same price as Norwegian carriers, and the amount of fuel they want to carry across the Swedish border to Norway is 200 litres. It will also be possible for a Norwegian carrier to do so, whether it is a circus or something else. My point is that it is not the charging system and the diesel tax itself that distorts competition. However, when it is still the case that some non-resident carriers take over to some extent for Norwegian carriers and carry out transport in Norway, there are other elements that mean much more. For example, when Polish carriers carry out missions in Norway, it is quite easy to explain by the fact that the pay level in Poland is quite different from that in Norway, and that, of course, it affects the price at which Polish carriers can carry out the job.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1066	I have a question for the Minister of Finance: ‘Kingsröd Transport A/S in Sarpsborg, the country’s largest private transport company, must compensate for special Norwegian diesel charges by using Polish drivers with Polish semi-trailers refuelling in low fuel-priced countries. The combination of cheap fuels and labour has become a threat to Norwegian heavy transport. How will the Council of State improve the conditions of competition of Norwegian carriers?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1075	I would like to refer to my answer to the question from the representative of Bredvold. The questions are the same. My answer to the question from the representative Hedstrøm must therefore be almost identical to the answer to the question from the representative Bredvold. Fees and conditions of competition for road freight have been assessed in a number of contexts, including: in the context of the follow-up to the Green Tax Commission. An important conclusion is that legislation and legislation on heavy transport have been harmonised through the EEA Agreement, so that the conditions of competition are similar for all carriers in the EEA territory. Fuel taxes in Norway are relatively high. The aim is that charges should cover the costs incurred by road traffic to society in the event of road use, accidents and environmental damage. However, the car diesel charge is significantly lower than the petrol charge, and analyses carried out indicate that the charge is not high enough to cover the external costs. The Green Tax Commission recommended non-discriminatory treatment of the car diesel and petrol charges. In principle, the fee should be equal for all fuels, corrected for differences in environmental characteristics and any other relevant characteristics. Otherwise, a small number of adverse environmental adjustments may weaken the income of the country. The proportion of diesel-powered passenger cars has been observed to have increased in the 1990s, probably due to the large tax and price difference between petrol and diesel. From the end of the year the car diesel charge was increased by 13 kroner per person. litres in excess of price increases. However, the fee is 60 cents lower per cent. litres than for petrol. In addition, the CO2 tax is twice as high for petrol as for diesel. Overall, this gives a tax difference between petrol and diesel of 107 øre per. liters. From 1 January 2000, an additional charge of 25 øre per person was introduced. litres on autodiesel with at least 0,005 pst. percentage by weight of sulphur. The aim is to provide oil companies with economic motivation to deliver environmentally friendly diesel quality, which can contribute to improving local air quality. The rate of the charge of 25 øre is set after input from the oil industry, taking into account what is deemed necessary for a transition to such quality. According to industry data, the national budget assumed that this sulphur tax would not give any revenue to the country after 2000, because low-sulphur diesel would be available in the Norwegian market during the year. Later data show that this may take a little longer. Under the legislation in force, motor vehicles may, free of charge, introduce the amount of fuel contained in the normal fuel tanks of the motor vehicle but not more than 200 litres. For buses, the limit is 600 litres. This applies regardless of whether the vehicle is registered in Norway or abroad. Thus, for fuel taxes, it does not matter in the case in question whether the car is registered in Norway or for example. in Poland. Therefore, Norwegian carriers are not discriminated against with regard to the quantities of fuels allowed for entry into Norway. Late in the autumn of 1999 the Customs Service was asked to intensify its control effort towards heavier vehicles with a view to ensuring that no fuel is introduced above the permitted quantity. The new regulation on simplified presentation in the case of minor cases of illegal imports, which entered into force on 1 December 1999, also provides for the effective sanctioning of such infringements to be applied to Customs. It is too early to say anything about the impact of these measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1096	I thank the Council of State for the answer. He has, on this occasion and on several other occasions from the questioner, been involved in the environmental aspects of this. What needs to be clear is that we are not required by the EU to add to the new diesel quality by 2005. This has given Norway time to adapt and to a real differentiation of quality, where the new diesel is priced lower and the old one is charged up, so that the sum of this does not exceed the level of the diesel tax before the last increase. This could give a phase out of the old diesel quality without raising the cost level, and it would have a very important psychological impact on the carriers in this country. Does the Council not believe that it would be an advantage to wait to differentiate the diesel tax after the sulphur content of the deadline adopted by the EU, so that the tax differences between Norway and most of the competing countries do not increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1105	It is right that the requirement to introduce low-sulphur diesel will not apply until 2005, but I see it as highly desirable whether it can happen significantly earlier. In order to provide incentives for the transition to low-sulphur diesel for environmental reasons, not least local emissions, to take place as soon as possible, the Government proposed an increased levy. The government now found it appropriate to give an incentive to speed up the transition to low-sulphur diesel by increasing the diesel tax by 25 centimetres – a tax that will disappear as soon as low-sulphur diesel becomes available. And according to the information we got from the industry last autumn, this low-sulphur diesel would be available during 2000. Later, and no later than this new year, new information has come to suggest that it will take some more time, but I still hope that long before 2005 there will be only low-sulphur diesel in use in Norway. It will be of great benefit to the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1110	I thank the Council of State for the additional response. I understand that in this context, as in some other contexts, he wants to be the best boy in the class here in Norway, and in this case at the expense of Norwegian carriers. Today we became aware through the newscasts that CreditInform calculated that 30 pst. several Norwegian carriers went bankrupt last year and the main reason is that expenditure is increasing more than revenue. But the government does not show any willingness, as I see it, to try to keep Norwegian transport industry going by providing better and more equal framework conditions. Is it not possible for the Government to tell Norwegian carriers that it does not want any private truck industry to any extent in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1117	Whether a company, whether it is a transport undertaking or another type of enterprise, is in competition, among other things. depending on the overall framework conditions and not just on a single element. For transport companies, not only the fuel tax is important, it is also all the other costs that the industry has, among other things. compensation of employees. So this is probably a much more complex picture. In Norway, we have preferred to draw relatively much of what you need to have into the treasury, in the form of fees. This is because it has helped to address a number of other issues, such as health and environmental conditions. The option could have been to involve more in the form of direct taxation, for example: by labour force. For example, we could have had a higher employer’s fee, which is not uncommon in other countries, where fuel taxes are lower than in Norway. But what Norway has put on, I think overall, will make sense. I am also quite sure that as the other countries also have to meet their Kyoto obligations, it may also be necessary to resort to higher fuel charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1127	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘The payment decision has been taken to liquidate the casset fee. According to Today’s Business on 10 January 2000, the Norwaco Rights Organisation wishes to recharge empty video and music cassettes, as well as extend the fee to digital storage media and recording equipment. The Ministry of Culture has agreed to discuss a new scheme. Will the Council of State permit the imposition of a levy in the same area as the Grand Duchy has just decided to abolish?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1136	Technological development means the continued development of new products with the same scope, i.e. sound or video recording. These developments result in the current excise duty on unrecorded audio and video cassettes creating undesired distortions of competition. Therefore, on a proposal from the Government, Stortinget decided to abolish the excise duty on cassettes. The majority decided that the excise duty should be abolished from 1 December 2000. On the basis of this, I do not see it as appropriate to propose introducing a new tax to the treasury of cassettes, etc. to compensate for the current charge. The financing mechanism for Norwaco outlined in the Nakkim representative’s question is something other than a levy on the Treasury and is under the responsibility of another State Council, namely the Minister for Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1143	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I also see that Norwaco's input applies in relation to the copyright law and the remuneration system. What worries me a little bit is that you say that this is going to replace the cassette fee, and you compare it to the cassette fee fund, which has had a slightly different assumption. What really bothered me the most was that you wanted to charge a fee on PCs, CD burners, DVD players and a lot more. On the part of the Financial Committee, we have striven not to charge such equipment because it is to make it easier and easier. I expect that this remuneration mechanism will not be introduced until the EU directive is put in place, so that we can be consistent with the other European countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1152	As I said, this falls under the responsibility of another State Council. But I have been in contact with the Minister of Culture on the issue, and the Minister of Culture points out that the Family, Culture and Administrative Committee of the Budget Centre. S. No 2 for 1998/99 asked the Ministry to investigate and assess the remuneration and fund scheme that compensates for the significant loss of income suffered by Norwegian operators and composers due to new technological media. In St. prp. No 1 from the Ministry of Culture for the current year, a proposal for an EU Directive on copyright and related rights in the information society has been made. The proposal for a Directive, which also covers issues relating to compensation schemes for analogue and digital copying, is likely to have to be implemented in Norwegian law. In particular, the Ministry of Culture will come back to the question of compensation schemes for such copying. That is the answer I have received from the Minister of Culture, and as far as I know, no position has yet been taken on how this should be financed in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1164	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: ‘The day’s income system for municipalities does not motivate municipalities to invest in strengthening the tax base or maintaining the level of tax collection and control of employers. The background is that the municipalities have little left to prioritize this. This applies primarily to the 397 minimum income municipalities. The whole country will lose if the tax charge is weakened. What assessments have the Council of State made in this regard?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1173	First, I would like to point out that the municipal minister answered a similar question from the representative Signe Øye on 17 November last year. The system of equalising the tax revenue of municipalities was changed in 1997. In the former system, about 300 municipalities were fully compensated for the difference between the tax paid in their own municipality and a reference level of 96,2 pst. of the national average at which the system changed. Once the new system is fully implemented in 2001, the reference level will be raised to 110 pst. of the national average, while the level of compensation will be reduced to 90 pst. The change has resulted in an increase in the number of municipalities covered by the scheme from about 300 municipalities to about 400 municipalities, while the level of compensation is reduced from 100 pst. to 90 pst. The latter means that the minimum income municipalities now retain a certain proportion of a tax increase, even if it is relatively small. Similarity in the provision of services has been central to the design of the balancing of income. This must be seen in the context of surveys showing that differences in income levels are best explained by differences in service provision between municipalities. As the Minister pointed out in his reply, figures from the Tax Directorate show that more than 99 pst. tax equalised is paid. With such a percentage, Norway places itself entirely at the top of the world. Figures from the Tax Directorate also show that the proportion of tax paid is as high in municipalities covered by the Cohesion Fund as in municipalities not affected by the Cohesion Fund. The municipal minister also pointed out that the local anchoring of the tax collection can in itself have a positive effect on the tax will, and this is confirmed by many tax collectors. The current organisational model with a local anchoring of the tax collection should therefore be broadly firm. However, improvements in the system will be considered if developments show that the current model does not work as intended.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1186	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's true that we have a good standard for the collection of taxes in Norway, and it's also true that it's 99 pst. required. But we should also imagine that 1 pst. in the case of collected taxes, they amount to approx. $3.5 billion, so there's a lot of money here. It is also right to see a local anchoring as important, but how long does the high rate of collection in the municipalities last? What's happening now is that the municipalities are gradually discovering that they serve very little to collect all the taxes. They see that they earn more by reducing the number of years worked, and that it gives a faster profit. There is a part that has begun to think of that idea, and that is what has led me to ask the Council of State, and I ask: Will he contact the Tax Directorate's collection department in order to be able to follow up this matter further?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1193	I see that in theory, the system could work as Nakkim's representative now describes, that there's too few incentives to make sure that the taxes that have been assessed are collected, because you get the same thing pretty much again. But practice shows, as I said in my answer, that this is not the case, because the collection share is as high in these minimum income municipalities as in municipalities that have much more left to collect taxes, and I therefore have no reason to assume that there will be any other result in the future. Then I have also noticed that when the Minister of State replied, the figure was 3.5 billion kroner, which would be the one percent that was not requested. When I saw the answer, I reacted spontaneously, because it seemed a little loud. That is why I have allowed myself to investigate a little, and the amount is too high. What is demanded in the municipalities is more than 200 billion kroner, but even 2 billion dollars, which will be the one percent that is not requested, is still a high amount. But right is going to be right, I think it's right to operate on the correct numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1200	I'm not going to argue with the Council of State about the number of billions in terms of one percent. It's clear that there's a little bit of different perceptions out there and going. I want to illustrate this with an example. I myself come from a minimum income municipality – yes, Moss has become a minimum income municipality, and it is paradoxical to think that cities like Bergen, Trondheim, Kristiansand and Drammen have become the minimum income municipalities, but this has been the case with the new income transfer system. Moss had an obsessive charge of 17.5 million. NOK, which was carried out with a few persons, and it turns out that of the compulsions they had on arrears tax, employer’s tax, advances, etc., it is 60 pst. to the State, 27 p.m. go to the municipalities and approx. 15 pst. to the counties. Because they in the municipality of Moss have a collection percentage of over 99, they have proposed to reduce the staff in the chemical office with one person, because on that they serve the municipality 400,000 kroner. When there are several municipalities that discover the same thing, you will be able to get a weaker collection, and that is really what I want the Minister of Finance to follow up better and keep an eye on the future. I don't think this is something that can change over the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1207	As I said in my two previous answers, there is at least as far as nothing to suggest that the minimum income municipalities are more relaxed in the service when it comes to charging tax. If it turns out that the future is going to be different, get an assessment of what's going to happen in the case. I hope you don't think like you do in Moss, in too many municipalities, because that would be unfortunate. We are also dependent on the fact that the taxes paid are also charged for tax purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1215	‘11. In January 2000, the NRK had a television programme on illegal poultry imports. Producers of their own cooperative organisation Prior Norway were hanged as one of the scapegoats. This must make Norwegian producers angry, when we know that agriculture itself is paying a levy on delivered slaughter to a regulatory fund. I know the police are inside the picture, but I want the Council's response on how we as consumers and producers can gain new confidence in Norwegian poultry production»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1222	The ‘Fire Point’ television programme took up the illegal importation of meat on 11 January. Four persons have been sued at cutting establishments in Westfold and Buskerud concerning the smuggling and illegal marketing of meat. The television program presented claims linking Prior to the meat smuggler case. As the representative Eng says, this matter is now under investigation by Ecokrim. It is therefore necessary to await the outcome of the ongoing investigation in order to clarify the facts. I would like to stress that it is essential that consumers have confidence in Norwegian food production. According to the department, one measure in this context is that prior has now changed its practice, so that all treatment of the raw material is now to be carried out at Prior’s facilities and no longer with subcontractors. It is a clear premise on the part of the authorities that the food presented in Norway is to be reasonably safe and presented. If it can be shown here that official regulations and controls have not been good enough, this will be followed up by the Ministry and the control bodies. Food law and food surveillance are the most important tools at our disposal to achieve this. The ongoing case against the smuggling of meat by a group of cutting establishments was discovered by the local Food Safety Authority. The State Food Safety Authority prioritises the task of supporting Customs in the fight against the smuggling of meat and the distribution of such meat. The use and management of labels, labelled packaging and stamps in food establishments will be given increased attention. In addition, it will be important to develop closer cooperation with other relevant supervisory authorities. These are measures that have already been followed up, as I explained in my reply to the question put by the representative of Skogholt in the Question Time on 20 October 1999. The Ministry of Agriculture attaches great importance to the fact that both consumers and manufacturers can have confidence in the brand scheme of Good Norwegian. There must be no doubt that consumers who buy poultry meat in packaging labelled with Good Norwegian are receiving Norwegian quality goods. Primaryly, responsibility for control has been placed on brand users through internal control systems. The Foundation of Good Norsk, which administers the scheme, carries out follow-up visits where they check whether the company complies with the requirements of Good Norsk marking. In addition, control at the establishments is carried out by the Food Safety Authority. In the light of this case, the Good Norwegian Foundation will review its guidelines and procedures in relation to the brand users. Finally, I would like to mention that the great attention given to this matter shows that consumers are concerned that they have access to safe food. On the part of the authorities, one of them will review the control procedures in order to ensure that this is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1241	I thank the Council of State for your answer. It sounds safe, but I'll still follow up with some point of view that consumes. Because the example I drew up is just the top of an iceberg. Smuggling and illegal imports are going on in a big way, and then it's natural to ask: why is this? Is it e.g. only the increase in the grain price that we received last year, which is why the price of the Norwegian food is so high that we find this market? Such examples as the 'Fire Point' took up, where the Good Norwegian marking came out badly, also do not signal Norwegian selection. Although the Council of State now said that the marking and control are good, it will always be so that nothing is so good that it cannot be done better. Do the state councils have the means to do the necessary grips in the event?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1248	Unfortunately, illegal acts are usually economically motivated. Of course it has also been in this case. I want to go so far as to say that this is one of the biggest ‘candals’ in this area that have happened in Norway, compared to what has to do with food smuggling and fraud around it. That is why the authorities have taken such a serious step both in terms of the outcome of this and in terms of how we should follow this up in order, if necessary, to help us not to experience this again. We just have to be aware that such acts, fraud, of course, are illegal in relation to Norwegian law, and that it will not be possible to do so in the future, I do not think anyone can guarantee. We need a regulatory framework to deal with this in a better way. Price differences are, of course, one of the factors, and the agricultural notification submitted for treatment in the United Kingdom has also been taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1253	I thank the Council of State for your answer. But it's not to avoid the frustration in the industry as well. The information that own cooperatives are involved in undermining farmers' livelihoods makes them upset. For the fees they are charged as Norwegian producers to a regulatory fund, they make up the poor salary that agriculture averages. There will be a big difference between the good purposes and how it works in practice. Now I have registered that Prior has gone out and said that they reject the fact that they have been cheated, and that is good. But yet, does the Council of State have any means to prevent such a thing from happening, and will he use it in the event that it does?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1260	I think it is quite understandable that within the industry there is frustration about the debate that is now taking place in relation to Prior as a business. But it's per. today did not reveal any evidence that prior has committed illegal acts. We have to wait for this. It may be that a person and company-to-company investigator, if any, will be among the assessments that public authorities also have to deal with. We do not want to wait – if this is revealed – to use the means available to us. One must be aware that what has now been revealed and has come as far as prosecution is concerned concerns private enterprises. It is cooperative, the Prior enterprise, which is now being examined more closely in relation to the existence of irregularities or criminal offences there. There we get to wait for the situation. Otherwise, I fully share the concerns expressed by the representative Eng. It is a public responsibility to follow up in the areas we are going to follow up on.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1272	‘According to a notice published in the Official Journal of 27 November 1999, Kristian Rasmussen, elected to the local council of the municipality of Sørreisa, does not receive leave from his first service served in Harstad to attend the municipal board meeting. According to the Press Contact Officer Stensrud in the Kystartilleriet on Trondenes, the Permit Directive normally requires that one should seek freedom from political office while serving the first-time service. Does the Council of State consider this to be in line with the objective of increasing local political involvement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1279	There is no statutory right to leave from first-time employment in order, for example, to hold office in the local council. Normally, the compulsory application for leave from the place of employment shall cover the entire length of the first-time service. However, a permit may be granted for the performance of such duties where this is compatible with the training and the performance of the service. Such leave must be assessed by the local manager on the basis of the total absence during the period, the consequences for the training and service to be provided, and the importance for the overall preparedness and other service of the department. There are two important considerations to be taken into account here: the right of services and the maintenance of a public office in the service of the first-time service. I want engaged soldiers, and I am positive that young Norwegian men and women are engaged in public representation and employment. In the case of Kristian Rasmussen, the ratio is not as negative as the statement in the Official Journal can give the impression, as the office has granted many of his permissive requests. This shows the defense's willingness to facilitate the conditions for soldiers to discharge local political engagement. I would like to mention that the current provision of the Permissive Directive has been dealt with by the National Committee of Trustees in Defence in November 1996, and in this context the following unanimous decisions were taken: ‘The National Committee of Trustees in Defence considers that if it is impracticable to reconcile the exercise of political office with the implementation of the initial service, the protected person must apply for exemption from the office. ‘... The provisions in force are therefore in accordance with the views of the guardians. Fortunately, it is rare that such things create problems. This provision shall be practised in such a way that the soldier is initially free, as far as practicable. However, there may be special situations in which the service will be clearly harmed in the absence. In such cases, it is natural for it to meet an alternate, otherwise when one has a valid absence. I trust that the Armed Forces personnel will manage the legislation with the necessary flexibility. In my view, current practice provides a good balance, which takes account both of local political involvement and of the implementation of the required military service.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1295	As the Council of State was in, there are in a way two obligations that stand up here against each other. Paragraph 40 of the Municipal Council Act states that one has a right and obligation to attend the municipal board meeting, while the Permit Directive calls for a general application for leave from the political office throughout the first time. Nevertheless, the Permit Directive states that leave can be granted as long as it is compatible with training and the provision of the service. So it's a judgement that's going to be applied here. The council refers to the specific case, and it is true that he has been granted leave a number of times, but the problem has been that he has felt that it has been very difficult every time, and that there has been some sort of random exercise of discretion. My question is whether the Council of State feels that this is important in order to increase local political involvement, especially among young people? Because there are very few young people involved in politics, and there are also very few young people attending local government meetings. Does the Council of State mean that this increases exposure?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1304	We stand here in terms of two duties in society: letting ourselves be chosen, for example. a municipal political office and the provision of protection. It is difficult to give a clear description of which situations should give one or the other an answer; here the local manager has to make an assessment on a case-by-case basis. I have an attitude that is that you should have engaged young people. And if it's necessary to send out some political signals to the system and to local managers in making such assessments, I can do that. But I don't have the opportunity to give any directives to the local bosses, because here are some balances that have to be made from this point in time, including the moment when the duty to protect is served. I hope it's possible to reconcile these two for me the positive social obligations that lie on this issue, and I have faith that if you're sufficiently flexible, you can do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1311	I just want to try to sum up what the state council said now, that she doesn't think the rules should be changed, but it's clear that you have to be flexible when it's elected people who want to combine the elected office with serving the duty of protection, and that the state council can also be willing to send signals about it down the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1319	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘A millionaire drove through police speed control for 141 kilometres per hour in October 1999. The court stressed in a lessening direction that the driver was driving a car with good driving characteristics at high speed. Does the Council of State consider that this decision provides grounds for considering changes to the legislation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1328	As the questioner will be familiar with, I do not, in principle, have the opportunity to comment on the decisions of the Court in individual cases. The case also refers to a judgment in the first instance which is not yet enforceable. The Norwegian criminal justice system is based on the fact that the judge is to pronounce the sentence on a case-by-case basis after a concrete assessment. We have few legal rules that say something about what factors you can focus on when you measure the penalty. On the other hand, other legal source factors, such as preparatory and case-law, provide guidance, in particular, on high-level case-law. The Court of Justice does not comment so often on the overall response determination, but links the discussion to the individual case. By examining the points that the Supreme Court has highlighted in various cases, the points of reference are given which elements can be taken into account and which are of particular importance. The Norwegian system has a long tradition, and Stortinget’s Justice Department joined the system in its suspension of the Criminal Notice in 1980. In my opinion, the views expressed there are also valid today. On this basis, I cannot see the need to consider any changes to the legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1339	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I am fully aware of the limitations that the Council of State has on such matters. We like to believe in Norway that we have a legal system that doesn't make any difference to people, whether we have different status, both economically and otherwise. But what is the opinion of the Council of State: is there any difference between people in the Norwegian judiciary today, and can the Minister, if so, take any initiative to limit that development?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1346	Some of the questioner's reasoning requires that both the representative and I should go into all the details of the matter. It's not for us to do here. On the other hand, I assume that the competent bodies which assess e.g. appeal questions in such a case as this one, do so – both on the basis of the legal source tradition I referred to, and on the basis of the specific individual case. I have also recorded that there has been a public debate about the issue, and that debate is itself, in an open system such as the Norwegian one, a process in which all citizens, whether they are judges, poachers or state councils, are involved. Among other things, I have registered as having expressed, for its part, views as to whether this case should have been brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union or had a different basis for preparation. But I, like everyone else, record the views, and have no comments other than those I made in the first answer to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1354	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘Vegdirektoratet has recently refused to shoot the planned new riksvegtrasé Lunner-Gardermoen [[Rv 35 Stem Road Route 17]] Will the Council of State contribute to the transformation of the Road Directorate’s decision?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1363	Toll financing for the new highway 35 from Lunner to Gardermoen in Oppland and Akershus was adopted by Stortinget in November 1998. Toll financing amounted to 130 million. 1998-DKK of a total of 570 million on the project. 1998-kr, and was foreseen to be distributed over the three-year period 1999-2001. Government appropriations were only to come from 2001 to 2003. The financing plan in St.prp. No 85 for 1997-98 provided for plant start-up at the end of 2000 and road opening in the autumn of 2003. Advancement of the project proposed will allow project opening in the autumn of 2002, i.e. a year earlier than intended. However, I would like to point out that after the main aerodrome is now open, it is possible to calculate the traffic with a slightly greater degree of safety than before. Assessments made by the Directorate of Roads suggest that the level of traffic on the new road can now be difficult to achieve at the time of the opening foreseen in the landfill. The Road Directorate has therefore concluded that the facility can be implemented as adopted by the Stortinget but that there is no room for an advance solution. I am aware that the head of the road in Akershus in a letter to the Directorate of Roads has advised to proceed with the advance request. I also pointed out that the assembly in Akershus in Case 33/99 dealt with the advance case. Paragraph 1 of the Decision states: ‘1. Before the filling operation adopts spraying and increased conditional reimbursement for Rv 35 Lunner-Gardermoen, there must be renewed quality assurances of the traffic base consistent with St.prp. No 85 [[1997-98]] I would like to point out that the financing plan of the project is already based on the fact that toll money comes before the state funds, which limits the possibility of advance payments. Based on the decision of the county council and the fact that there are now adjusted figures for traffic development, it is natural that the case should be reviewed promptly in the two county councils before a final decision is taken in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1382	I thank you for your answer. This road was actually going to be finished in connection with the opening of the Gardermoen. You'll get a completely different traffic pattern when you get behind you like that – and now you might get another year of postponement, which is regrettable. It cracks a little bit here between these floors. The road offices in Akershus and Uppland say that they assume that they will have the traffic increase that was expected, and then the Road Directorate says something else. I am so pleased that the Minister for Transport will take this up in both quarters, I would say, and I hope that he will then pay attention to this. But here's a gap between the Road Directorate and two road offices. Will the minister look at this, and maybe get an independent body to look at these numbers?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1393	It can be confirmed that there are different recommendations. The decision of the Directorate of Roads is in the formulation of the question by the respondent. What has been assessed in this case is changes in annual traffic versus that signaled in the staging proposition and the decision of the Storting. It is likely that there is also an assessment of the best benefits for drivers, both in terms of progress and advance, and an increase in the period during which tolls will have to be paid. As I see it, this is a different perception of what serves the drivers and users best, and here it may be necessary to make rapid recommendations in the two counties – and thus they can conclude on an even better and wider basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1398	I am very pleased that the Council of State will go for it ‘which benefits the drivers best’. If someone has seen this road, it would become clear that you have to start building today. In St. prp. No 85 for 1997-98 operates with a loan rate of 7 pst. in 2000 and 2001 and at 8 p.m. after 2001. So the Road Directorate has, without justification, changed the borrowing rate for the entire period to 8,5 pst. It's in the papers. It's a pretty dramatic change in the borrowing rate, which really will affect the entire calculation. And then you've assumed that we can withstand a traffic failure in ÅDT of 130 if you relate to the interest conditions you first had. Why has this borrowing rate changed so dramatically, from 7 to 8.5 pst? ?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1407	I have to admit that I don't have enough time to go into the background for exactly that part of the question because it's a little complicated. But let me just make a few important assessments that have been found in the conclusions reached by the Directorate of Roads in their assessment. They say, among other things: that if traffic is only 1 900 vehicles in the 1998 figures, corresponding to 2 100 vehicles in 2004, the amortisation time of the base option will change from 13 to 15 years. Furthermore, they say that the financing plan of the project assumes that toll financing precedes state funding, and the toll ratio is determined as high as possible within a reasonable toll tariff of 25 kroner, which will not give any particular rejection of the current county road. The road is still assumed to be open for transit. The amortisation period was calculated as 13 years in the base option – here there was a small reserve. And then you've explained why you've concluded what you're doing. So now I'm waiting for the recommendations from the two counties, and then it finally concludes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1419	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘At Løten Nærstation, the sale of tickets for NSB increased considerably. The agents have entered into an agreement with the NSB giving the agents 10 pst. commissions for the sale of tickets. Now the agents have been notified that the commission will be reduced to 8 pst. from 1 January 2000. What can the Council of State do to prevent the unofficial stations from losing their agents?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1428	As the financial controller, the NSB’s task is to define the strategy for the best possible reach of customers in order to maximise the sale of tickets. As I see it, in this context, it would be natural to balance the costs of administering the sale with the possibility of income. On this basis, I feel certain that it is the intention of the board to develop the service apparatus in such a way that this satisfies the customers' needs. This also applies in relation to rail passengers in the Løten area. During the landfill treatment of St.meld. No 19 for 1998-99, on the activities of NSB BA, cf. Deep. S. No 138 for 1998-99, returns were set against the NSB, which requires operational improvements in the passenger and freight traffic of the NSB, including cost-effectiveisation such as, inter alia, may have an impact on the sales and distribution apparatus. For information, I can inform you that with regard to the case at Løten, the NSB has informed the agent that the reduction in the commission will not be carried out as from 1 January 2000, as previously announced.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1437	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and I interpret the answer positively. I am of course aware that it is the government of the NSB that is responsible for the economy, but I mean to have coverage to say that this with agents is a very good solution, and I hope the Council of State to the NSB administration can stress how important it is that the service is good. The NSB agents provide a good service to customers. This commission means little financially for the NSB, but very much for the agents to contribute to a good offer for the travellers. It should be important for the NSB that they have satisfied customers. The NSB cannot terminate agreements through the media, there should be equivalent agreements around the country, and the agents have a high level of predictability requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1446	I will take with me the representative Eirin Fallet's good advice and points, and will bring it to the board of directors of the NSB. I agree with a significant point that good service is the key to both public offices and publicly owned enterprises – of course in line with private-sector enterprises. I also include the recommendation and advertising for private agents as a good solution in relation to the marketing of tickets, as well as that they are good ambassadors at the place where they have their work and business. I share Mr Faldet's view on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1455	I am grateful to the Council of State for taking my views with me, for I have received enquiries from many who are affected by this. Obviously, the carrot of these so-called agents is that they serve it. It also encourages them to provide such good service that the travellers return. I don't think ten pst. is a ugly commission, they actually deserve it. In cold days, they keep the station open, many of them have sales, and it's actually also become a center on the Solution for Art of Use. It creates a little bit of activity in the Red Center as well. I believe that the NSB – when the board thinks about it – finds that this is a very good solution, and that they do not go to any reduction in commissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1468	I have a question for the Minister for Transport: ‘4. On January 2000, the health care system was notified of landing with helicopters at the landing site outside the Sandness Lake Hospital. On board was a patient who needed rapid treatment. The landing site has been used for approx. 10 years and is considered safe and secure. One of the hospital's neighbours has complained about noise, and after a lengthy dispute, the Ministry of Transport has refused approval from the landing site for environmental reasons. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate for environmental considerations to take precedence over life and health?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1477	This is a very special case that has been going on since 1989. The case concerns a landing site that was built despite the fact that the county manager in Northernland had stated that the landing site had an adverse location and that an alternate landing site should be explored, and despite rejection by the Aviation Agency. The reason for the refusal was that the landing site is only approx. 10 meters from the nearest house, and that the noise load for this neighbor would therefore become unsustainable. Later noise calculations carried out have confirmed this. After the landing site was completed, new information from the hospital was given that the landing site would only be used once per. 14th day. On the basis of this very low figure, the landing site was authorised by the Aviation Agency but with very strict conditions. One of the conditions was that the use should be as stated, i.e. one landing per. 14th day. In retrospect, the condition for the number of landings has been consistently exceeded. There are recorded between 10 and 20 landings per. the month from 1996 to 1999. These landings take place both day and night. If the hospital in the original application had stated the figure that has subsequently proved to be real, the landing site would not be authorised by the Aviation Agency. From 1996 until the closure of the landing site, the hospital and county council have repeatedly been asked to find alternative solutions so that both consideration of the heavily noisy neighbours and consideration for the transport of patients could be adequately taken into account. The municipality has reported for several years that the process of building a new landing site has been initiated, and temporary permits have been granted several times to allow completion. Nevertheless, it has been shown time and time again that work on the landing site has stopped. Over five years, very little has happened to improve noise problems. The airport at Stokka is approx. 10 minutes' drive from the hospital, and the hospital itself has said that this is affordable if the ambulance is adequately staffed. Otherwise, it may be mentioned that many hospitals do not have helicopter landings near the hospital. The central hospital in Bodø has itself closed the landing site they had on the roof to use the airport in Bodø. I would like to conclude by saying that this has been a difficult matter with two very important interests, the environment on the one hand and the concern for life and health on the other. Life and health considerations have allowed the landing site, despite major environmental disadvantages, to be used for all these years. Nevertheless, it seemed unavoidable that the Aviation Agency refused further approval of the landing site, as the situation has been that the hospital and county council have failed to address the problem following emphatic calls both from the Aviation Agency and the County Environmental Protection Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1492	I have to be allowed to correct the Council of State when he says that it is a complaint from neighbours. It's a complaint from one neighbor. On the other hand, there is a signature list where all the other neighbours have signed that they accept the landing site. When it comes to noise, and if noise is dangerous, you wouldn't think you could land near a hospital full of sick people. So that can't be the reason, there must be other reasons for the closure. The closure of this landing site may mean that the Department will be responsible for the loss of life. My question will then be: Will the Council of State be responsible for the loss of life through the closure of the landing site? Will he take an initiative in the near future to reverse that decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1504	I am the first to regret that after more than ten years of work to find alternative solutions, the Swedish Aviation Agency has found that it has not been able to extend the exemption for the landing site, and has had to acknowledge that the permit that has been granted has been radically exceeded all along. I must point out one thing that has emerged clearly after the disaster at the Rørosbanen, namely the role of supervision in this context. As late as a few days ago, the Air Safety Authority confirmed the decision last autumn and referred to the reply today. It means, in other words, that the ministry has a complaint case in its assessment. And with the experience we have from the supervisory work, which has been newly created in several areas, it will probably take a lot to get the Council of State to review the advice of professional supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1511	I find that the Council of State is willing to accept responsibility for the loss of life. The least one could expect was that the Ministry took an initiative in this matter and helped to find an alternative landing site. Until such a landing site is established, it is my clear belief that the derogation should still have been granted. My final comment: Will the Ministry do something to get to another alternative?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1518	After having been pointed out for more than ten years both from the County Environmental Protection Department and from the Swedish Aviation Agency that a solution had to be found to this matter, and nothing has happened, I find it unreasonable that the Council of State should assume responsibility for life and health in the future by not extending its exemption and approval to the landing site. Having said that, I would say that there is nothing that is far from me to take an initiative to find a solution. When the county has both tried, the Swedish Aviation Agency has tried, the municipality has answered, and the county council has had the challenges, I would like to take a role in taking a new initiative to try to find a solution to this issue, but I cannot promise that that solution will necessarily be the one rejected by the Swedish Aviation Agency and the Swedish Aviation Agency. But we have to be able to find an alternative solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1528	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Only 23 pst. by E18 through East Agder has satisfactory road standard towards 49 pst. average for the whole country. Both the ÅDT and the accident rate for E18 in East Agder are close to twice the average for the main road network in Norway. Accidents and additional transport costs due to poor E18 are estimated to provide the county with an additional cost of 400 million. kronor per year. Box 7 represents only 4 pst. of the main road network, but serving 18 pst. of the total traffic work carried out in the country. How does the Council of States assess these facts, and what does he think he has to do?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1537	I have recently been on an inspection in the counties and have to note that we are facing major investments in order to improve road safety and accessibility. Both the risk of accidents and the severity of the accidents are above the average of the national road network. It is therefore necessary to implement several anti-speed and accident prevention measures in addition to the further extension of E18 to the standard for motorways. The new E18 through the agder states is highly prioritised. Unfortunately, there is not enough money to give us the full standard as quickly as possible. In the meantime, the State Road Service will continuously assess possible immediate measures. The operational and maintenance priority is E18 in the county. Of speed reduction measures, eight new photoboxes along the E18 east of Arendal will be operational and the control intensity will be increased for existing photoboxes in Lillesand. The speed limit through Lillesand was reduced in 1999 to 70 km/h. The route at West Vallesverd in Lillesand will be signposted as an accident route. The state road system will increase heavy-duty vehicle and seat belt control. It is also considered to increase police control activities. On the extension side, new motorways between Arendal and Grimstad shall be operated until the autumn. The line is built out of state resources. The next priority extension project is the Brokelandsheia-Vinterkjær section further east of the county. Both sections are constructed and planned as two- and three-field motorways with separate pass-by fields on parts of the parcels. Once these projects have been completed, the lines Telemark border to Risør and Arendal to Grimstad will have a modern road system with, among others. secure crossings and means of passing by without using the opposite lane. In particular, improvements are achieved in the closure of summer traffic. The Directorate of Roads is now examining an application from East-Agder for partial toll financing of E18 through the county. Once the application has been completed in the Road Directorate and the Ministry of Transport, the Government will promote a toll proposition for E18 in the county. I would otherwise like to refer to the national transport plan 2002-2011, which is presented in March. Here a clear future framework will be created.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1552	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I would like to inform the Council of State that over a number of years there has been an increasing frustration in Agder over what is perceived by the downside as an almost total absence of understanding from the central authorities for the needs of this part of the country for a better tribal road in the South. The arguments for a stronger commitment to E18 in South Africa have now become very many and heavy after several years of down-priority by state authorities on the road sector in East Agder. The accident rate of E18 in East Agder, the traffic density, the availability, the very poor standard in relation to the tribal road network in the rest of the country, as well as the large local, regional and national importance of the E18 in the context of employment and business – all of this argues that there is a precarious need for a significantly stronger and faster bet on a better tribal road in the South. Is not the Council of State, which not long ago was down in South Africa, agree that there are indeed very many and heavy arguments that speak for a significant increase in E18 in South Africa as quickly as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1559	As I stated in my first answer, I have a great deal of understanding of the growing frustration that has occurred in the South around road development, the need for greater road capacity, and not least frustration over the number of road fatalities, i.e. road safety and accidents. So there's no lack of understanding about the need to do something about this distance I'm going to try to explain or make. On the contrary, understanding of the need is highly present. I tried to give the impression in my first answer. We are very pleased with – I am very pleased with, to be concrete – the toll proposal that has come from the Agderfylken and that will be subject to rapid treatment. I imagine that we are now taking a boost for the challenges we have on the E18 and the South. But then it's like this in life that everything of course isn't solved in one day.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1564	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I would just like to make a brief remark that I personally am strongly opposed to toll financing. However, I would like to show that I had a question to the Minister for Transport that I answered on 17 December 1999 about the high accident rates at E18 in Agder, and among others. the State Council then stated that the future priorities of the E18 need to be clarified in the National Transport Plan, presented to the European Parliament in March. But the fact is that, despite the fact that they can point to a precarious need for increased state resources for a better tribal road, the Agderfyls have had very little impact on the proposal for a national transport plan that is located in the department. If the present proposal for a national transport plan would prove to pass the department without taking more account of the need for a better tribal road for the Agderfländer, it would almost mean a scandalous disregard for a whole part of the country. Will the Council of State really accept that a state that already has perhaps the worst tribal road standard in the whole country will once again be subject to a division of national road appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1571	Both actors face major challenges in the road sector and a major need for development, not least related to road safety issues. The letter to which it was referred was a concrete response to a request from the respondent in the fall. That letter provides additional information, but there is no doubt that when the Aggregates also receive a priority in the National Transport Plan – we will assess the size when it is politically addressed – it is not least due to road safety and road safety assessments and what is appropriate in this context. But then it's like this in the world that we're all subject to a framework, and the final frameworks are only defined when the government makes its proposal in March, and this is finally dealt with before the harvest. It means, in other words, that the different priorities will be decided within a reasonably short period of time, and then it will be exciting to see how the Stortinge prioritizes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1579	I will be allowed to ask the following questions to the Minister for Social Affairs: «According to the newspaper Dagbladet on 13 January 2000, the price of 3 litres of wine in cardboard, so called behind the box, is artificially high because of an obsolete prescription. This leads today to private importers taking in approx. Forty million. kroner more than this item, at normal pricing, would achieve. Will the Council of State ensure that the current regulation is removed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1588	The prices shall be fixed in such a way that the sale price is the same regardless of whether a product is sold at its normal bottle size or another bottle size or packaging, after the current sales contract for the A/S wine monopoly. In other words, alcohol policy concerns lie behind the regulations. This means that consumers do not get a price advantage – that is. Discount – when alcohol can be sold cheaper in larger volumes and other packaging, such as alcohol. in the back-in-box, as asked by the representative Nesvik. The monopoly of wine, by letter to the Ministry of 4 January of this year, has done its best to ensure that the holders are removed, giving reasons for this change in circumstances from the time it was given. It is pointed out that the transfer of extra services on board wine from the Vinmonopole to the wholesale market has led to an artificial market distortion in favour of wholesalers supplying cardboard wine. Furthermore, the wine monopoly believes that the expected price decrease will not be so great that there will be any alcohol policy problem in terms of greater consumption, that a fall in the price of weak wines will help to increase competition from legal marketing to cross-border trade and illegal marketing, and that the revenue will be distorted from stronger to weaker drinks. I'll take a closer look at this. I aim to make good a possible change in the context of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1597	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and hope that, in the context of the revised national budget, the Council of State will present a case for the Stortinge where this regulation is lifted once and for all. When we look at alcohol prices and the level of taxes in Norway, you can question who is really trying to help. Is it the smugglers and the criminals in this country, or is it really the alcohol policy views you're trying to assert to keep consumption down? What's going to be interesting to see is what comes from the Council of State in terms of this regulation. The regulation was well established in its time for, among other things, to protect the vat of the Vinmonopolet against the competition of so-called cheap wines from abroad. That argument is clearly gone because of the change that has occurred with the Vinmonopolet and Arcus. I hope the Council of State will take this into consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1606	As you can see from my first answer, the statements of the honourable Members have changed. At that point, I share the views of the representative Nesvik. And that's also what makes me think about this. Otherwise, when it comes to the issues of alcohol policy in the proposals we are dealing with, it may be that our path is separated — as they have sometimes done before. I would like to stress that I am busy with an alcohol policy that takes account not only of availability, not only of a few dollars from or to the price, but also of the relationship between availability, consumption and damage.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1613	I have to tell the Council of State, in the light of the answer given here, that it is then interesting what you can read in the budget, that the parties of government are in favour of a massive reduction in the fees in the case of white wine and liqueur wine, while because of the 12 dollars that this is actually talking about for the bag-in-box wine grape varieties, you will use alcohol policy arguments for once again looking at this matter. And maybe that's why you actually want to maintain this regulation. I hope, however, that it will be as the Minister for Social Affairs says, that you will evaluate this regulation, and I hope it will be removed. But I have to say that in terms of the alcohol policy arguments, it is not entirely related here, when you look at the price reduction for liqueur wine and white wine, while actually maintaining the highest price level for wine products with a lower alcoholic strength.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1621	Let me clear up in two relationships. First of all, the changes made to the government's fees were an attempt to bring about a more orderly and fair charging system. The answer I gave today to the representative, Nesvik, is quite an example of the fact that the government, at a time of change, is willing to look at the situation again. And that's what I said here. In fact, I have not stood up and defended the existing system on the basis of an alcohol policy foundation in this field. That's the reason before, but it's now changed, and I'm going to go in there and look at this case again. But what I want to underline, and which I think is important to stress, is that there is an increasing commitment, not least to the different communities, and a great concern when it comes to young people. Alcohol consumption is increasing, and injuries are increasing in this country. We must also take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1632	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Social Affairs the following questions: ‘According to a press release from the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, the Government of ESA rejects the alcohol requirement that, among other things, ‘rust shower’ and beer with the same alcoholic strength must be treated equally. This implies that ‘rust shower’ must be available for sale in shops as beer. Governments state that ‘in addition to beer, there is a product on the market that is highly appealing to young people because of the taste and marketing’. What is the basis of this claim from the Council of States?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1641	It is true, as the representative of Nesvik says, that the Government has blackened the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, that we are, from the Norwegian side, firmly aware that alcohol policy concerns are to govern the alcohol policy and that the Norwegian rules are not contrary to the EEA Agreement. The background for the case is that in October last year, ESA sent a basic report to the Norwegian Government. In this respect, the ESA claimed that the Norwegian rules which opened for different treatment of alcoholic beverages with equal alcoholic strength are contrary to the rules of the EEA Agreement on the free movement of goods. ESA my t.d. the treatment of intoxication and beer with the same alcoholic strength must be similar. It will include: say that raspberry can be sold in stores like beer, and not only on the wine monopoly, as the scheme is today. In addition to beer, there is a range of products with the same alcoholic strength on the market as are widely appealing to young people because of taste and marketing. I am thinking in particular of the compound group of drinks that are commonly referred to as rushing noise or alcopops. Rusbrus may be based on spirits, wine or beer. These drinks are usually sweetened with added sugar and usually taste very similar. This taste is highly capable of concealing the alcoholic strength of the drink. Furthermore, the marketing of cannabis is mainly directed at young people. Drinks are given names, bottles of shapes and labels of graphic expressions that attract young people. Research by the State Institute for Alcohol and Drug Research, SIFA, further shows that the consumption of these drinks comes in addition to the consumption of other alcoholic beverages, such as alcohol. beer. In Document No: 8:85 for 1997-98, the representative Fridtjof Frank Gundersen suggested that Norwegian legislation be adapted in order to treat wine and beer with the same alcoholic strength when they are traded. This proposal was rejected by the majority in its Decision of 2 June 1998, which indicated that there are sufficient backgrounds for alcohol policy to maintain a level of discrimination within the EEA Agreement. I am concerned that a change of legislation in line with the ESA's attitude will lead to higher total consumption among young people, lower the initial age of alcohol and open the way for alcoholic drinks to reach new and younger user groups. There is a development Government not wanting to. With all the local involvement in local communities in strengthening prevention, parental involvement, schooling, organisations, and the populace, I believe that such a development does not want small and large communities in our country either.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1656	Now I must admit that I have not tasted these raspberries, and it was interesting to hear how the Council of State characterized the taste of them. But what I'm going to ask the Council of State about in this context is that you refer to marketing here, that you're afraid that the marketing of these products leads to a lower debutal. Does the Council of State really think that people start drinking earlier because there's an interesting design on the bottle that might be in the store? That's the one. The second concerns the laws and regulations we have for the sale of alcoholic beverages in Norway. There are quite clear rules that apply to age and also to the different outlets. Does the Council of State think that maintaining this proposal would expose the debut age to alcohol?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1663	In this case, I keep to investigations and reports that show that there is a link between design, taste and marketing to young people and that young people are actually trying out these different new products. It is not for nothing that studies show that there are young people who are most likely to use cannabis. It is also the case that among the youngest group, from 15 to 19, it is more common to drink rusbrus at home and at friends. SIFA research shows that cannabis is widely sold in discotheques, cafes, restaurants and other places where young people usually meet, but are primarily offered home to the youngest. Then I thought the Wine Monopoly handled the age limits finely as the situation is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1668	In her reply, the Council of State says that she refers to surveys that show this. Then I would like to know: What are the studies that the Council of State refers to, which can tell us that you get a lower debutant in the case of intoxication and alcohol? Studies that I have seen show that very few debuts using cannabis. I just want to know if the Council can tell me, so that I can also read the same surveys as the Minister of Social Affairs, which show a former debutant, and which show what you drink in restaurants. Most alcoholic beverages are enjoyed when we are out at restaurants, for that is usually where you have the funds, or you drink in your own private home. So my question to the Council of State is, can you tell me what studies you're referring to, that point out that you're going to get a lower payout because of a rush?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1673	The president wants the speech to go through the president.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1676	I stick to investigations that include: have been published via the State Institute for Alcohol and Drug Research, focusing on who is trying out cannabis. When it comes to the debut age, I share the opinion of the representative Nesvik that there are several factors that play on it. Among other things, it has now been detected in recent times, by e.g. researches Willy Pedersen, that parents who offer their own children alcohol at home, they do a bear service. There is a high risk of lower yields, higher consumption early and testing of other substances in the next phase. The score is a piece of legislation that deals with young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1684	‘More and more of the corridors on the RIT are now being arranged to provide patients with permanent access to the corridor. Alarm systems for patient use are now being built on the corridors. RiT is inside a vicious circle, and fire protection conductors indicate that the corridors are a means of escape by fire and that in the hospital corridors there are no obstacles. This is done at the same time as the Governments have reduced the grant to regional hospitals over several years. Will the Council of State take responsibility for the situation of the country's hospital, including the RiT?»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1691	Overlays and corridors in the major hospitals are a significant problem. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health highlighted in the 1998 letter of allocation to the State Health Authority that monitoring of capacity and operational conditions in a selection of hospitals should be a priority task. This issue has been addressed by the Health Authority, and this can be seen in particular: in a report of November 1998 and a new recent report of December 1999. In addition, the country’s county doctors follow the situation of overcoating at the country’s hospital with supervision and system audits. With regard to the situation at the Regional Hospital in Trondheim, the situation has been followed up in depth and systematically by the County doctor in the South Trøndelag. The county has taken several measures to improve conditions, but this has not been sufficient. In particular, the medical department has had a significant overcoating and the situation has deteriorated in 1999. Against this background, the County Medical College supervised the RiT in the autumn of 1999 and found, after an overall assessment, that the conditions of the medical department for overcoating are not compatible with professionally sound activities. The case was then sent to the State Health Authority for follow-up. The Health Inspectorate has supported the County Medical Court’s assessment and issued on 22 December last year’s South Trøndelag notification to the municipality of injunctions to rectify the medical situation. The county council has been given a deadline of 1 February 2000 to explain the implementation of measures to reduce the overburden. The hospital corridor is not suitable for patient treatment. There is an increased risk of loss of quality in treatment and care. Patients located in the corridor to prevent escape routes by fire are also not in accordance with the fire regulations. It must therefore be an objective for Norwegian hospitals to avoid Corridor Asians. In principle, Corridor Asians should not be accepted. Only in exceptional cases, such as in the case of an influenza epidemic and for short periods, should Corridor Asians be accepted, but then as a purely emergency solution. I am familiar with the construction of alarm systems for patient use at the RIT. The establishment of permanent Corridor Asiatic arrangements is not acceptable. It's giving a crazy signal. However, it is important until the corridor patients have been removed, or in rare exceptional cases, that patients in the corridor should have the same safety and safety, inter alia. to summon the staff as other patients in the bedside wards. I assume that the Süd-Trøndelag County now follows up the notice of orders given to the county council in relation to the corridor problem. In this respect, I see it natural for the supervisory authorities to assess the relationship that the representative Brande points out. An additional 97 million was granted in December 1999. in the regional hospital allowance as compensation for the non-price adjustment in 1998 and 1999. In addition, a budget of 35 million has been allocated for 2000. kr in addition to the 1999 budget. As the representative Burnde is familiar with, I will come to Stortinget with a review of the hospitals' economy in ours, and we currently have a close and good process together with the Municipal Councils' Central Association and the hospital owners, among others. the regional hospital owners, on this review. I will also follow up on the Health Authority's general report on overcoatings in relation to the hospital owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1708	There is no doubt that, among other things. regional hospitals need increased grants. It is not possible to magic for the management of the various hospitals, and many patients get too poor an offer, even an unworthy offer. What makes me extra dubious is that the bureaucratic grinder paints very slowly. I took up the situation with the Minister of Health in the medical department at the Regional Hospital in Trondheim in the fall, early this winter, which also pointed out to the county doctor. The county doctor went so far as to say that the constant overcoating of patients over several years leads to an infectious risk, is unworthy and goes into legal certainty. So this report has gone through the system, and what has come out of it? Well, the fact that now corridors are becoming patient rooms on a permanent basis. Then the Minister of Health blames the county. But isn't it an overall responsibility to cut through and say that we can't have it in Norway in the year 2000?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1715	It is correct that the representative Burnde on 1 December addressed this question. As early as 22 December, the report of the County Medical Officer has been finalised in the Health Authority and the Health Authority has given a warning of the imposition, which is the warning of the highest sanctioning option available to the supervisory authorities. I don't know if it's characterizing as a slow-moulding grinder. I don't think so. But when that is said, I want to say that I share the opinion of the representative Børge Brende: Corridor Asians are not a situation worthy of our hospitals as a permanent solution. That is why I fully support the pressure that the supervisory authorities are now putting on the hospital owner to clean up the situation. It's one part of taking responsibility. In addition, I take responsibility for the review of the hospitals' finances, and I take responsibility for following up the overburden situation in general in relation to the hospital owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1724	The Minister for Health took away the fact that it was a ‘slow-painting grinder’. The point was that the Regional Hospital in Trondheim has been ordered to clean up the situation of Corridor Asians, with the risk of infection in the medical department, that the legal certainty of patients is affected. That order has come. But what was the answer to that imposed? It was that you went even further in expanding the number of corridors. The directive then came, immediately afterwards, said the Minister of Health. But what happens now? Well, you just have to institutionalize that you have Corridor Asians, break the fire protection regulations. It's a high-block with many, many floors, patients lying in the corridors, and at a possible time of fire, it's going to be a very unsustainable situation. And then the Health Minister says that this must be done by the county. Is this not evidence that the county council is not the right unit to control the hospitals, and that the problem now is that the health minister can at any time run away from responsibility and blame others? Some people have to start taking responsibility for a hospital-Norway that doesn't have a goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1731	I respect the fact that the Right on repeated occasions is trying to change the division of responsibilities in Health-Norway, but I do not accept a criticism that I am actually dealing with the division of responsibilities as a majority, against the Right votes, in this Chamber has decided that we should have. In this case, it is interesting that the representative is already aware of the county's defences. The county council has been given a deadline of 1 February to give its reply to the county board and to the Health Authority, on the basis of which the Health Authority and, where appropriate, others should assess the content of the measures which the county council intends to introduce. At least I have to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1741	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The business environment in Oslo is now alarming because the resources at the newborn wards throughout the East are so limited that there is a risk to the lives and health of the newborns. It is claimed that one is in a grey zone for proper operation. Feeding women with serious complications may be at risk of being sent to Sweden or Denmark to give birth because the capacity has been detonated by our own newborn wards. What will the Council of State do to ensure the safety of pregnant women in order to ensure a sound offer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1750	It is true, as the representative Sjøli points out, that the capacity for intensive treatment of newborns in the eastern region is very difficult. When this problem was resolved in the media on 14 December, the same day an address was addressed to the State Health Authority, who was asked to obtain an assessment of the County Medical Sciences in the Health Region of the South and Health Region of the East of the capacity situation in the treatment of newborns. Furthermore, it was called to a meeting in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health, which was held on 20 December. Here, the State Health Authority, the County of Oslo, attended representatives from the two regional hospitals the Rikshospitalet and Ullevål hospitals, the Municipality of Oslo and from the Health Administration in the two health regions. The aim was to get a description of the situation, to review current measures to remedy the situation in the short and long term and to ensure that there was a satisfactory preparation for Christmas and New Year’s Eve. The status description given during the meeting was serious. The main problem is the capacity problems of the two regional hospitals. The capacity has been fully exploited at the Rikshospitalet. In Ullevål Hospital, the main problem is that due to major recruitment problems on the nurse’s side, capacity has had to be reduced. The report from the Oslo County Medical College shows that out of 12 intensive beds in the neonatal intensive care unit, only four to five intensive beds can be operated on the nursing side and often only one to two of these on weekends. These two regional hospitals are large in national contexts and have specialised functions so that the lack of capacity in Oslo has ring-fenced effects, especially in the two health regions of the South and East. In the same meeting, it was reported that there was little or no capacity at the other hospitals in the health region of South and East to provide assistance beyond what the counties themselves were responsible for. The difficult situation was further exacerbated by the fact that several hospitals had admitted patients with RS virus. It's my impression that hospitals are cooperating well between themselves to make maximum use of the total resources in the difficult situation. For Christmas and New Year's weekend, a special agreement was concluded between Ullevål and the Rikshospitalet. Among other things, a secretary was engaged to facilitate communication between the newborns in the two health regions and to ensure the utilisation of free capacity. Furthermore, work was done to obtain qualified personnel from Sweden. Transferring children to hospitals outside Norway was considered a last resort if no qualified assistance could be provided domestically. Measures of a longer-term nature will now be developed by the Ministry. A meeting in the department tomorrow with representatives from the Rikshospitalet, Ullevål Hospital/Oslo municipality and the two health re-regions South and East has been called. [[Statsraad Højbråten]] Consideration shall be given to the measures necessary to ensure future supply, including the need to further address the issue beyond the monitoring carried out by the Health Authority before Christmas. I am also aware that the supervisory authorities are working further on the matter. In a letter dated 13 January, the county doctor asked for an explanation of the situation as it developed during the New Year’s Weekend, until today’s status. This shall form the basis for the subsequent supervisory work of the county doctor and form the basis for recommendations to the Health Authority. Specific measures will be put in place. What measures will be taken to implement them, I will have to come back to the extension of the meeting to be held tomorrow. However, I can assure the representative, Mr Sjøli, that the situation has a lot of attention on my part.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1767	I thank the Minister of Health for the answer. It is reassuring to hear that the situation has a lot of attention, and that should be lacking. That's the second time in five weeks now that I'm addressing this question. And I have to say I was quite startled when I saw a statement in the newspaper on 12 and 13 January that the situation had not improved. Actually, there is nothing new from when I raised this question before Christmas, except that there is a new meeting. The Health Minister said that the purpose of the meeting before Christmas was to take on long-term measures as well. I find it a little strange that the Council of State does not now signal to Stortinget what concrete measures can be taken. We have a lot of interest in getting insight into it. The professional environment has identified two specific areas that are problematic. One is that the prematurity department is not defined as an intensive care unit, and the other is that nurse training is too poor. I could imagine hearing the Minister of Health's opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1772	I understand the representative, Sjøli,'s reaction to the headlines she referred to in the newspaper, because they gave the impression that nothing had happened after she raised the question in Stortinget on 14 December. But it turns out from my first answer that it's actually not right, and that once you got to know the situation from the department, you took the initiative to secure the offer in the short term. I agree that the proposals that have been made and that are mentioned by Sjøli, on the educational and recruitment situation and the definition of these departments, are issues that should now be considered. There are both human and building limitations that we face in that situation. But when the people involved are called to a meeting tomorrow to discuss what measures are needed, I have to ask for respect for the fact that, as a specialist council, I will wait for their advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1779	I thank the Minister of Health again for the answer. I trust that concrete measures will now be followed up. My surprise was that you said before Christmas that you should also look at long-term measures, but that nothing had happened. I am pleased that the Minister of Health will look at the two areas I mentioned, staffing in the intensive care departments and that the basic training in the nursing care is actually too poor, as the trade unions consider it. I now hope that the Stortinget can also get feedback on what measures are now being implemented, so we also have an opportunity to follow up on the serious situation that has arisen in the case of particularly ill newborns in the eastern region.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1784	I just want to say briefly that I agree that it is natural that a response is given to the Storting on how this situation develops, how it is handled and what concrete proposals it is relevant to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1792	I will ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘A hearing at the Rikshospitalet has been corrected by its Director after he has, on request, met some members of the Social Committee of the Stortinge and provided professional information. Has the correction been made at the request of the Ministry of Social and Health?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1801	The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health is aware that a superior at the Rikshospitalet has met with some members of the Storting Social Committee and provided professional information. The Ministry is also aware that there has been an ex-post dialogue between the director of the Rikshospitalet and the current superior, and also between the representative Alvheim and the director of the Rikshospitalet. The Ministry is also aware that the director of the Rikshospitalet, when he got to know the meetings, expressed to the superior that they had been unregulated and unlucky. The director of the National Hospital later, after receiving additional information about the meetings in question, regretted this report. The director has clarified that it is important for the management of the hospital to be informed in advance when employees of the hospital, by virtue of being employed at the hospital, meet with the Stortinget or some of its organs. There was contact between the department and the director on the question, but the correctness originally given by the director of the Rikshospitalet was not given at the request of the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. However, I would like to say that it is desirable and necessary for the various state institutions to appear neatly outwards. In this way, the work of the director of the Rikshospitalet is valued, and the loyalty that largely characterizes the institution he is running. I would therefore like to express my support to the Director when he has clarified the need to be informed in advance when employees at the hospital, by virtue of their employment, have meetings with large-scale agencies or representatives. Such a practice, which I would consider natural, should of course not prevent all necessary and relevant professional information from flowing to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1812	I thank you for your answer. For the sake of order, I would like to mention that, when it comes to formal meetings between the Social Committee and representatives of state agencies, the Social Committee is careful to ensure that this is done in agreement with a State Council, which is responsible to the Storting in the relevant field of action. This is in accordance with the current rules of the game. However, I react very strongly when the director writes in the letter to the relevant superior that «all contact of hospital staff» with the members of the Storting, the Stortinget and the Council of State shall be known to the Director. I want to say it so clearly: I do not intend to ask either directors or health ministers when I want to contact health professionals, it is in ordinary public hospitals or in state hospitals, and I assume that the Minister of Health agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1821	I am pleased that the representative Alvheim confirms the policy on which there is broad agreement regarding the official contact between states and large-scale committees. I take further note of what the representative Alvheim says about his own contact with health professionals, and I have nothing to say about it. On the other hand, I believe that the reasons for cleaning up within a state budget suggest that a manager should rightly demand to be informed if employees in his staff choose to meet representatives of the Stortinget in some form. The cleanliness I think will be served by all parties, but it will not prevent the free flow of information, as I mentioned in my first answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1828	I was not very satisfied with the last part of the Minister of Health's response now. Because it's clear that if I call a doctor at the Rikshospitalet and ask for professional information, and he's going to consult with the Director and ask if he can give me the information, that will lead to me not being given the information that I believe I am entitled to, also as head of the social committee at this moment. Here, at my discretion, the Minister of Health must try to clean up the Rikshospitalet and other states, so that informal contact between the Health Policy and employees of Stortingen can also take place in state hospitals without the Director being asked in advance. This is an open society – which I hope we got in this country now.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1835	I don't think the disagreement between the representative Alvheim and me is how you could get the impression through the last remark from the representative Alvheim. What I said was not that it was important for the management of the hospital to have approved such a contact in advance, but that it was important for the management to be familiar with an employee contact by virtue of being employed at the hospital. There is something quite different than being forced to obtain prior consent.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1848	I would like to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘Various research reports point out that electromagnetic radiation from high voltage lines may be hazardous to health. However, researchers find it difficult to establish a relationship, even if it cannot be excluded. In a specific case in the Stavanger area, a resident believes that as well as he and his livestock are affected by the radiation from high-voltage lines that go over his property. What does the Council of State do to identify coherence and, where appropriate, to impose the burial of wires?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1857	As the representative of Langeland points out, it is still unclear, and thus, of course, controversial whether electromagnetic fields from power lines pose some health risks. In the autumn, there was a survey in Norwegian media on new British studies on the concentration of pollutants along power streets. The media presented this as if it was finally proven that the fields were causing cancer risk. However, the study in question did not contain any health or cancer data. However, a country-wide epidemiological study in England on the health risk, published approximately at the same time, concluded that there was no correlation between exposure to magnetic fields from the power supply and paediatric cancer. This study gained limited media attention in Norway. A publicly appointed Norwegian sample has previously investigated the issue of coherence. The report was published in the NOU series in 1995. The committee proposed a moderate precautionary strategy, to which the government later joined. The strategy recommended was as follows: 1st@item: inlistbox New power lines should seek to avoid access to housing, kindergartens and schools, etc. Measures involve small costs and must not cause other significant disadvantages. The current measures are primarily a series of track changes.2. In the case of new residential areas, schools and kindergartens etc. the proximity of power lines should be avoided. Where possible, a slightly greater distance than the minimum safety limits established for the distance between power lines and construction should be chosen for a number of reasons. In view of the uncertainty that remains regarding the negative health effects of low frequency electromagnetic fields, the working group considers that, in choice situations, minimum field strength solutions should be chosen for the time being when this can be done without additional costs. The Government’s recommendation on the conclusions of the NOU 1995:20 in 1998 was endorsed by the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, cf. Inner. S. No 252 to St.prp. No 65 for 1997-98. At the same time, it was made clear that research and development in this field will continue to be carried out. The public interest has focused in particular on whether the fields could lead to a risk of cancer in children, an issue that has also been best addressed in research. However, questions have also been asked about other health effects, including: effect on pregnancy outcomes and mental health. A number of people also report non-specific symptoms that they feel need to come from the fields, often called eloquence. It is often difficult to assess individual cases, as different plagues may have several causes. No health problems have been identified that can only cause electromagnetic fields. Without knowing the matter in question from the Stavanger area, it may well be true that the resident and his livestock are exposed to the field, but if any plagues can be associated with this, it is hardly possible to clarify with today's knowledge. On-going research in this area, and the fact that our researchers accompany us internationally, is necessary as a basis for management. Under the user-driven research programme Effect in the Norwegian Research Council, a sub-programme on research into the biomedical and health effects of electromagnetic fields is being implemented, in particular in the field of power lines. The Ministry of Social Affairs and Health contributes financially to this part of the Effekt programme, which is otherwise focused mainly on efficiency in power supply. The Ministry also set up a working group in 1999 to review the research results available at national and international level. The Ministry will await the conclusions of such a review before possibly adjusting the adopted administrative practice based on a precautionary principle. There is currently no general basis for digging down cables to replace air lines for health reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1881	I thank you for your answer. Let me assume that to me it seems that it is the economy that governs almost everything within this industry. It's more expensive to put cables in the ground, and so it's the economy that decides whether to do this or not. We have a lack of knowledge in this area for decades. Nothing new has happened. There are no new conclusions. One only operates with the same uncertainty as one has operated with the last 20 years. Then it's interesting, I think, to know what time horizon it is when it comes to these projects, both the Effect Program and the work of the group that has been set down by the Minister of Health. What time horizon do we operate on here? We've been working on this for so long that now one has to start to draw some conclusions. Some have tried in other countries, but now I want the Minister of Health to answer the time horizon he sees in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1890	It is not like the representative of Langeland now makes it, that it has only been waiting for decades without action, without drawing any conclusions. In fact, the authorities have taken this seriously, carried out an investigation, which concluded with a proposal for a management strategy. That management strategy has been endorsed by the Government, presented to the Stortinget – and the Stortinget joined it as late as spring 1998. The government committed itself to continuing the research and monitoring development, so it has an active attitude to this. I cannot answer exactly when new summaries of research and the work of the working group set up in 1999 will be carried out, but at least I promise that we will follow closely from the department. And to the extent that there is new knowledge that suggests a different management strategy than the Stortinget has joined, we will, of course, come to the Stortinget with proposals for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1897	Some of the main points in my follow-up question were that there are the costs of digging down cables that make one in a way not able to speed up the work of getting more secure arrangements. There is the ability to influence in relation to those who build up the cable network, just to be able to operate more within the var-principle, because, as the Council says, there is one of the problems here. An operation does not occur within the precautionary principle. There's an uncertain link to this, and then uncertain people have to benefit from that one in the form of clear opinions from, among other things. The Minister of Health, for his part, informed the builder, as he did in 1995 in relation to the guidelines, that the principle of good conduct is not in place here. In that case, the Minister of Health must be clear; a set of measures must be put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1902	I have to say that the representative Langeland and I – and also most of the Stortinget, as far as I remember the whole Stortinget, but I have to check this – disagree on how tough the management strategy that was chosen should be. But that's actually what Langeland is calling for, you've done, because of the uncertainty, you have chosen to recommend some measures. So maybe the representative of Langeland thinks that we should go further in recommending measures. However, this is what has been found after thorough investigations, while at the same time committing oneself to further research – which should be done when there is uncertainty about the use of a leading commodity strategy. I maintain that, to the extent that there is a basis for changing the strategy adopted by majorities, the Stortinge will have a proposal to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1912	I would like to ask the Minister for Health one more question: ‘According to State radiation protection, the oil industry in Norway is a major consumer of radioactive material. It is also revealed that very often accidents occur with this radioactive material. The straw supplier says there are alternatives that can replace the use of radioactive sources. Will the Council of State ensure that the use of radioactive material on a Norwegian base is prohibited?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1921	The use of radioactive sources in current oil activities is extensive and diverse, and the country has important functions in terms of security, monitoring, production and economics. It is the X-ray Act of 1938 and legislation adopted in accordance with it that regulates the radiation protection control of radioactive material on Norwegian base today. The Storting currently has the Government's proposal for a new Radiation Protection Act to deal with. Any prohibition on the use of such material had to be allowed in compliance with this legislation until the adoption of new radiation protection laws. The representative’s question has been submitted to the Straw Liver. A prohibition would generally require the existence of alternative methods that produce both less risk and the same or better result. State Radiation Protection estimates that the time is not ripe for a general ban on the use of radioactive sources in this field today. However, the straw supplier considers that future technical developments may lead to changes in the oil industry, which in any other area where radiation is used could lead to a reduction in the use of this technology. Today’s assessment of the use of radiation and radioactive sources in Norway is regulated by three internationally accepted basic principles, which are also reflected in the proposal for a new Radiation Protection Act, Ot.prp. No 88 for 1998/99: 1st@item: inlistbox All radiation use shall be justified, in the sense that the benefits of use shall be greater than the risks irradiation may entail.2. The radiation use shall be optimised, i.e. the radiation doses associated with the use shall be kept as low as reasonably achievable.3. Radiation doses shall not exceed specified limits. The ongoing exposure of the radiation protection system to both oil and land-based activities focuses on the principles of principle 2 and 3, i.e.: check that radiation use is optimised and that radiation doses are kept as low as possible and within defined limits. Assessment of justification will need to have a broader perspective than purely radiological and will affect more authorities and interest groups. The State's radiation protection oversight of oil activities takes place in formalised cooperation with the Oil Directorate, and the requirements and obligations in this area are in agreement with both institutions. In the case of the oil industry, it can generally be said that the internal control procedures around the use of radiation are good. All workers working with radiation sources carry personal dosimeters that record the radiation exposure and the radiation doses involved are well within Norwegian borders and international standards.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1946	I thank you for your answer. So far, I thought that both the answer and what we've seen in the media show that state radiation protection has a higher level of involvement in the field than one has in the past in this sector. There is no doubt that Norway is now a major consumer of radioactive material in the world scale within this sector – that is, supervision is too poor, or one in a way does not work with alternatives, as one has done when it comes to other aspects of the environment, for example. relative to halon. Just to make it a little difficult – to put it that way: The oil director still says in relation to the Valhall field that the follow-up is too poor and that it is deficient in relation to the treatment of radioactive sources. Governments are also confident that a radioactive source will disappear for a period of time in Stord. So the routines are too stupid. Then my question is, what happens on the part of the Minister of Health when it comes to tightening up the procedures?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1955	The high level of consumption in Norway is due to the fact that we are an oil nation and that we have a high level of production in this area. It is not because supervision is too poor. When control bodies reveal errors, as the representative from Langeland pointed out, this is an indication that the supervision actually works, and not the opposite. But when that is said, I would like to ask the Straw liver for an assessment of whether there is a need for changes in the control procedures based on the experience gained in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1962	In fact, I believe that the Health Minister and Langeland have common interests in this matter, simply to make a transition to, among other things. the use of other materials and the intensification of the procedures. That is also the point of this question from my point of view, simply to get a force that allows oil companies to use other means and systems to ensure that there are routines that make it safe both in relation to environmental emissions in general and in relation to the possibility that staff may be exposed to radioactive radiation.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1970	I will allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «A municipal doctor in Agder, who slept behind the steering wheel during a call-out with his own car in the case of medical care, has been submitted a fine of NOK 3000 by the police to drive a car while he was too tired. The doctor in question refuses to pay the fine. The doctor had to move out quickly to a sick patient. The case rises principal sides, as a doctor who is on guard, duties to move out to a sick patient if necessary. What will the Council of State do to prevent doctors from ending up in such difficult situations?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1979	The issue raised is not directly regulated by health professionals’ legislation. Without knowing the details or being able to comment directly on the episode described by the representative Andersen, it is clear that the Road Traffic Act also applies to medical driving. The general duty of care in Section 3 of the Road Traffic Act applies to all traffic by motor vehicle. The contents of the care obligation are: «Every person shall act with due care and care so that no danger or harm may arise». The Ministry of Justice states that the provision applies to all, including professional drivers. In situations where, for various reasons, the physician is indisposed to driving a vehicle, alternative transport arrangements must be established so that the patient can be properly examined by the physician. The patient may, for example: is transported to the doctor, inter alia: by means of the ambulance service or taxi service. This must be considered by the individual physician on a case-by-case basis. Alternatively, the doctor must be able to assess the use of a taxi in order to carry out the necessary medical visits in patients. There is also an opportunity for doctors to move out to seriously ill patients using the ambulance service. The Medical Act Section 25 on Good Practice also covers medical activities carried out in connection with medical care. If a doctor considers that he is unable to perform his duties properly under medical supervision, he must ensure that the patient is offered sound treatment by means of other general practitioners or by means of specialist health services, e.g. emergency outpatient clinics or hospitals. I am well aware that many doctors in the community health service have a lot of work pressure associated with medical work. It has been pointed out in several contexts that the watch burden on general practitioners is high, and is assumed by many to be one of the main causes of poor stability in and recruitment to general medical services. I have therefore launched more measures to improve the situation. One of the measures is the grant of medical care cooperation to stimulate inter-municipal medical care systems. The aim of such schemes is primarily to reduce the watch frequency and thus the overall workload of the doctors from the cooperating municipalities serving together a larger district. Work loads are also reduced by the frequent establishment of stationary watch stations, where patients are admitted for examination and treatment, so that medical visits are reduced. I am also aware that the general medical coverage in some municipalities often requires regular medical work to be carried out during the day after the night shift. Municipalities should endeavour to organise medical care in order to take the day off after the watch and to provide for work arrangements allowing adequate rest before participation in the watch.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e1997	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I must say I find reasonably satisfactory. I address this matter because I consider this to be an important and topical issue, which insofar as the Council of State and the Department should think something about and clarify something more. I know that the Council of State's answer to this question has been met with a certain interest in some doctors. The case of course represents a difficult dilemma, because driving in combination with a state of fatigue is something that should not happen at all. I would nevertheless say that it is unfortunate to label a doctor who is a lawbreaker in a context where an emergency situation requires doctors to move out fast at night to a sick patient, even if he feels tired there and then. When a doctor who makes his sun-clear duty under difficult and demanding conditions is charged with a greater fine by the police for something that could be an inevitable consequence of getting out at night, and he becomes a criminal on the basis of it, I believe that there is an unpleasant situation for the doctor to get up in, and that we should be able to solve this in a somewhat more flexible way than giving a fine on the spot.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e2006	I have answered the fundamental question raised by the representative Andersen. The opinion with which Andersen's representative now comes concerns the specific matter, which falls within the competence of another authority, and I do not want to comment further.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e2014	I have a question for the Minister of Culture: ‘NRK2 is now marketing as large as the ‘film channel’. Most of the videos NRK sends are now displayed in NRK2. Among other things, an ‘institution’ is like the Monday film on the NRK1 away. That's another 14 pst. of non-NRK2 non-residential households in some countries, the coverage rate is even lower. For example, Nordland has a coverage of 66 pst. The license is the same everywhere, and people pay for a commodity they don't get. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to make such changes to the programme offer when the coverage of NRK2 is so low?’
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e2023	On several occasions, questions have been answered in Stortinget’s Question Time about NRK2 and the coverage of the channel. I remind you that the expansion of NRK2 has taken place in accordance with Stortinget's assumption that NRK2 is primarily going to be a satellite channel with a certain additional coverage from ground transmitters. When Stortingen dealt with the matter, it was assumed that full expansion was not sound for economic and frequency reasons. In addition, a full expansion of ground transmitters would far on the road make it impossible to develop a digital transmission network. The size provided a coverage of close to 80 pst. by the viewers. About 80 pst. Today, the population has the potential to consume NRK2. So this is consistent with the Biggest assumption. In this context, I would also like to point out that the Stortinge in the treatment of digital television programming in the autumn asked the Ministry to assess whether it is possible to release frequencies in order to further increase this capacity in the event of the development of a digital terrestrial television. Decisions on the programmes to be sent on the channels of the NRK at any time are editorial assessments that fall within the current programme activities of the NRK. This programme activity is the broadcasting manager responsible under the Broadcasting Act. It is therefore neither relevant nor possible for the Ministry to submit directives to the NRK concerning the programmes to be sent on which channels. In accordance with customary practice, the Ministry has obtained an opinion from the NRK on the question posed by the representative of Bastesen. The NRK states that the main strategy behind the programme changes, such as: implies that most of the films are now sent to NRK2, adding several Norwegian strong productions in good time in NRK1. As an example, NRK mentions that ‘Norway today’ has moved from NRK2 to NRK1. The NRK indicates that the conversions will lead to a strengthening of the overall offer of NRK1 and not a weakening. Moreover, the NRK informs that the most attractive Monday films for which they have two or more broadcasting rights will also be sent as a Saturday film on NRK1.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e2034	Once I've started with 66 pst. coverage, which is NRK’s number, is also based on cable and satellite coverage. On a national basis, it's only 29 pst. coverage directly from the 25 earth-based stations, plus one at Svalbard. There are only 25 transmitters located around the country. In Northernland – the longest state in the country – we have one transmitter, and it is located in the Salt. I also have a TV at home, but to this day I have not received the NRK2. I do not have a satellite dish or cable, and I do not intend to buy it either, but I pay a license and I think that is very unfair. The foreign magazine, which was a very useful shipment on Sundays, has also moved. The Monday film has also been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e2041	I fully understand the problem raised by the representative Bastesen, and I also understand that it may seem to be an injustice. With regard to the broadcasting charge, there is a charge linked to the fact that you have a television receiver. We can compare it to the annual tax on a car. So that the obligation to pay the broadcasting fee applies regardless of which channels you can access. But I want to say, because I understand that this is perceived as a problem around, that technological development is taking rapid steps, not least in the media field, including the TV field. The digitisation that comes opens up a number of new opportunities. And in our work on developing this field further, I am fundamentally concerned that we should be able to find solutions that cover the country as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e2050	It was a remarkable way to view the broadcasting fee, not to regard it as a revenue for the NRK. It's the NRK who gets the money! There is not a penny of the money for either TVNorway, which I get into my living room, or TV 2, so it is not possible to compare it with the annual tax on the car – it was too easy. Could not have done such a thing as asking Norkring what it would cost to build up a broadcasting network that could give the whole country 80 pst. Coverage? The smallest government council could do is ask Norkring: what will the cost be? And then one could ask if the Stortinget was willing to pay for the Norwegian people to see TV and NRK2. After all, it's all in this house that we decide whether or not to expand it. The smallest government council could do was figure out what it would cost to get 80 pst. coverage for the population of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e2055	As I said, we're concerned that we're going to be able to get as high a coverage rate as possible. But I also made it clear in my first answer that we have followed up the assumptions that the Stortinge provided for the expansion of the NRK2, so there is no discrepancy between what the Stortinge has laid down, and the follow-up that has been made by us.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e2060	That being the case, it is no. 1 in today's map done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-19.ana.ud1838e2069	There is no record available.
