ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31-upper.ana.ud985e98	No one has asked for the floor. The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31-upper.ana.ud985e112	No one has asked for the floor. The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31-upper.ana.ud985e126	I would like to refer, on behalf of the Workers' Party, to the debate in Odelstingen on this matter, which is so important for ordinary workers who currently have unsatisfactory pension schemes, and stress the contribution that decisions on this matter may make to this. On behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, I would like to make the following proposal: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. Lactation Note: Section 2-1, first paragraph, is assumed to be replaced by the following: « An entity may set up a pension scheme in accordance with the rules of the law here in order to ensure that the employees of the enterprise receive an old-age pension in addition to the benefits paid at all times under the law on social security. [[1]] This does not apply to undertakings which have an occupational pension scheme."(b) of the first paragraph of Section 3-1, the following should be presumed to be replaced by the following:"As a collective investment scheme for the undertaking under the rules of Sections 3 to 3, or"The institution's point (b) shall become point (c).§ 3-3 The choice of investment in collective schemes should be deemed to be replaced by the following:"If it is agreed that the pension capital relating to the pension scheme is to constitute a separate investment portfolio subject to collective management, the undertaking shall have access to change the composition of the investment portfolio. [[1]] Before doing so, the management board shall be given the opportunity to comment. The provisions of the second paragraph of Section 3-2 apply mutatis mutandis. [[2]] If the market value of the investment portfolio is reduced during a financial year, the reduction shall be covered immediately by the transfer from the deposit fund and otherwise by grants from the undertaking. [[3]] The institution corresponds to the fact that uncovered impairment is otherwise covered.»Sections 3(3), 3-4 and 3-5 become sections 3 to 4, 3 to 5 and 3 to 6.§ 4 to 2 first paragraph should be replaced by the following:» The pension scheme shall cover all employees of the undertaking who have reached the age of 20, unless otherwise provided for by the law here and the corresponding regulations. [[1]] An entity that has a pension scheme under the law on occupational retirement provision and which will instead establish a pension scheme under the law herein shall liquidate the occupational pension scheme in accordance with the rules of the law on occupational retirement provision Chapter 15. [[1]] However, contribution funds linked to the pension scheme may be transferred as contribution funds for the pension scheme under the law here. The first subparagraph does not preclude the entity from continuing the occupational pension scheme for workers who were members of the scheme at the time of the establishment of a new pension scheme and who then had 10 years or less to the age of retirement. [[2]] If the administrative reserve of the pension scheme is not sufficient to cover the costs associated with the issuance of free policies upon termination of the existing scheme, the remaining costs shall be borne by the funds of the contribution fund and then by the payment by the undertaking if the funds of the contribution fund are not sufficient.»§ 15-2 Transitional rules are assumed to be replaced by:‘In the case of undertakings with pension schemes under the regulation of 28 June 1968 No. 3 if private occupational pension schemes and instead will establish a pension scheme under the law here, Section 14-2 shall apply mutatis mutandis.»Section 7-3, first sentence, is assumed to be deleted. § 7-3, sixth paragraph, is assumed to be deleted.» [[3]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31-upper.ana.ud985e179	Erik Dalheim, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, made the proposal he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31-upper.ana.ud985e182	I would also like to refer to the thorough debate in Odelstinget on this important matter, which concerns the deposit pension law and employees' rights, as we in the Progress Party have stressed, and which we are very concerned about strengthening. On behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to make the following proposals: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. Lactation Note: Paragraphs 4-2, third and fourth paragraphs are presumed to be deleted.» § 2-3, first paragraph, is assumed to be replaced by the following: «The pension scheme shall include at least one person in the undertaking who has a working time and salary in the undertaking which represents 75 % or more of the full-time employment.»In the case of the proposal for the first paragraph of Section 2-3, Steinar Bastesen supported this in Odelstinget. Furthermore, on behalf of the Advance Party and the Right, I would like to make the following proposal:‘The decision of the nobleman is not accepted.Note:Sections 2 to 4 and 4 to 4 are expected to be deleted.’ [[1]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31-upper.ana.ud985e210	Vidar Kleppe has made the proposals he himself has referred to on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31-upper.ana.ud985e213	I also refer to the debate in Odelstinget on the law on deposit pension, and on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left I will be allowed to present the following proposals: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. Lactation Note: § 5-2 is assumed to be replaced by the following: [[2]] «For the purposes of applying the provisions of the first subparagraph, account shall be taken of the fact that women usually have longer lives than men."Section 5-3, second paragraph, should be deleted.Section 7-3, second sentence, should be replaced by the following:"In the payment period, the certificate shall be converted into pension insurance in a life insurance company or pension fund as referred to in Sections 2 to 2. [[2]] [[1]] Pension funds converting pension capital according to the provision herein shall comply with the requirements of the law on occupational retirement provision § 2-2, second paragraph."Sections 7 to 3 are assumed to be replaced by the following:» Old-age pension shall be granted from the time the member is entitled to a pension under § 7-2 and shall run for as long as the member lives. [[2]] [[2]] It cannot be stipulated in the legislation that the old-age pension should cease or that the pension benefit should be reduced after a certain number of years."Sections 7 to 3 are assumed to be replaced by the following:‘If the institution does not guarantee the old-age pension, a single year shall not be more than this year constitute the expected remaining period of payment on the basis of the basis of which the insurance is calculated.’ § 7-3, fourth and fifth subparagraphs are assumed to be extinguished. [[3]] [[3]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31-upper.ana.ud985e243	Lars Rise, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Left, put forward the proposal he himself has referred to. Several have not asked for the word. The President will first vote on the proposal of the Progress Party, which, on the other hand, was supported by the representative Steinar Bastesen of the Odelstinget, then on the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right, then on the proposal of the Christian People's Party, the Central Party, the Socialist Left and the Left, and finally on the proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31-upper.ana.ud985e266	The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31-upper.ana.ud985e278	I refer to the debate in Odelstinget relating to this important issue of trading in shares – for those who are engaged in it. On behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, I would like to make the following proposal: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. Lactation Note: § 10-1 is assumed to be deleted.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31-upper.ana.ud985e291	Erik Dalheim, on behalf of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, made the proposal he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31-upper.ana.ud985e294	I refer you to the discussion in Odelstinget about the stock exchange law. It is clear that both national and international financial sectors have experienced major structural changes. We in the Progress Party have seen this as important to follow up in order to have a system that is adapted to the challenges we have today. I will, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right, address some of the proposals we had in Odelstinget, namely the following: ‘The decision of the nodule is not accepted. Lactation Note: § 4-1, first paragraph, the first sentence is assumed to be replaced by the following: ‘None may own shares representing more than 20 % of the share capital or the votes of an exchange.’, the first paragraph of Section 1-3 shall be presumed to be replaced by the following:‘Authorised market place means undertakings which organise or operate a market for financial instruments which facilitate trade by means of regular and public quotations of financial instruments and which are authorised under the law here.’, the first paragraph of Section 2-1 shall be presumed to be replaced by the following:‘The business which the exchange may only be operated by undertakings authorised to do so by the ministry. The Ministry may, on application, authorise undertakings active in the authorised market place."Article 9-1, first paragraph, is presumed to be replaced by the following:"Finally, the person who intentionally or negligently carries on business without authorisation under the first paragraph of Section 2-1, or uses the term exchange or authorised market place in breach of the third paragraph of Section 2-1."Article 10-2, second paragraph, third sentence, is presumed to be replaced by the following:"The assets arising from the sale of the shares shall be transferred to a foundation for the purpose of promoting the proper functioning of the market in financial instruments."Section 10-2, fourth paragraph, should be presumed to read as follows:"The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on the conversion, sale of the shares and organisation of the foundation as referred to in the second paragraph."In the case of proposals for sections 1 to 3 and in addition to those supported by Steinar Bastesen in Odelstinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31-upper.ana.ud985e333	Vidar Kleppe has made the proposal he himself referred to on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The President will first vote on the proposal of the Progressive Party and the Right, and then on the proposal of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31-upper.ana.ud985e348	The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31-upper.ana.ud985e360	No one has asked for the floor. The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-10-31-upper.ana.ud985e374	No one has asked for the floor. The Law Decision will be approved by the Creation in accordance with the Constitution to forward to the King.
