ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e36	From the meeting alternate representative of Akershus County, Tron Erik Hovind, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget from 1 February to 3 February in order to participate in a trip with the Defence Policy Committee to Finland and Sweden. The representative Steinar Bastesen has applied for leave in the days from 1 February to 3 February to take part in a study on coastal fisheries development in Namibia following an invitation. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period:For Akershus County: Else Marie StuenæsFor Nordland County: Arvid Falch
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e66	The representative Anneliese Dørum will make a private proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e69	On behalf of the representatives of Tomas Norvoll, Ursula Evje, Petter Løvik, Rolf Rekvam and myself, I would like to put forward proposals for measures to ensure the financial conditions of students implementing mandatory practices in the admission to animal care training at Norway's veterinary high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e74	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e88	This interpellation has been addressed to the Minister for the Environment today because there is growing concern in the West, both in the oil environment and among the population of coastal municipalities, that the strengthening of oil conservation was anticipated after the treatment of St.meld by Storting. No 25 for 1993-94, has not arrived and, on the other hand, there is a lack of preparedness, poor coordination and a lack of interest in the issues posed by central environmental protection authorities. The expectations after Stortingen’s treatment in 1994 were quite different. The then Workers' Party government signaled a strengthening of the Oil Protection Preparedness in the Storing Message. An overall increase wanted an even clearer strengthening, not least in the exposed areas of the West Coast. Let me get the quotes from Innst. S. No 152 for 1993-94: ‘The Committee believes that the protection of Western oil should be strengthened beyond what has been proposed. The emergency station at Mongstad will have a central function in this context. The Committee considers that the PSC should have day-to-day preparedness, increased staffing and the necessary competences. – The scope of the measures should be seen in the context of the establishment of an internal coastal oversight, the tasks to be assigned to coastal surveillance and, where appropriate, the location of the administration and management functions of the internal coastal oversight.’;» In the context of the establishment of internal coastal surveillance, the base has been moved to Haakonsvernung. The base has been responsible for ensuring the state’s emergency function, while at the same time supervising the local authorities and industry’s fulfilment of their emergency obligations. Throughout 1994 the Stortinget focused on the need for a clear and clear division of responsibilities between the three levels of preparedness: private operators in the oil and ship industries, municipalities and the state. And the most important thing, maybe, was that there had to be good coordination between these levels. The need to strengthen oil protection has not diminished in the six years since the Stortingen dealt with this communication. Oil and gas production is increasing and the activity and traffic to and from the installations on the continental shelf are very high. This should be one of the heaviest concentrations of offshore oil activity anywhere on our planet. Nowhere else in Europe is so much oil transported in pipelines and on ships as in the area of Mongstad-Sture in Hordaland. In 1999 it should have been transported 90 million. tons of crude oil past Fedje in North Hordland. At the same time, the importance of the Western coastal zone has increased both in the form of commercial activities related to pet food production and as a place of recreation and holiday, and there are also several important protected areas for, inter alia, food production. seabird along the coast. Just under a month ago, we saw what environmental disaster oil spills could be, in connection with the French coast disaster. With our coastline, the task would seem to be more or less difficult. The direct costs of cleaning up the ‘Exxon Valdez’ accident are now above NOK 15 billion, and not all of the compensation issues have been resolved in this context. An accident along the west coast will occur along a more difficult coastline than in both of these accidents, with the possibility of extreme weather conditions and in areas where one of Norway’s largest export industries depends on clean water conditions to ensure quality and future international reputation for its products. It should be borne in mind that the industry is currently the industry that is expected to have the highest future growth potential of the industries in Norway with special competence at present. There should be no need to emphasise the need to focus, in particular, on the West in the field of oil protection and the importance of ensuring the best possible prevention and remediation preparedness. Other tragic accidents in recent months are a reminder that safety procedures and work need to be reviewed regularly to ensure the functioning of the procedures and that the organisation is adequate. It should be a reminder that the security we believe we have – and that is focused on Norway – is not always there. Unfortunately, there is growing concern in the affected areas that oil preparedness is not well organised and that the wishes of the Stortinge from 1994 have not been sufficiently followed up. Although the primary responsibility for adequate preparedness lies with the polluter, the State of the SFT is responsible for coordinating public and private activities. The whole system shall be supervised by the SFT. It is, of course, a separate debate to ensure that the roles are cleaned so that the same body does not have supervision and operational responsibilities. It's been very busy in the past, and I'll leave it now. But it's a theme for itself. The most important thing for me here is to stress that it is the state that must ensure optimal coordination of resources and ensure that there is both monitoring and immediate preparedness. Oil protection is so much more than having oil lenses lying in depots. If the accident is first out, it's the quick reaction and the good routine that determine how successful an action is. Then I want to repeat what the Stortinget said in 1994. They said standby. They said, "Increase manning and necessary competence." And they said – not least: Better coordination of resources. Has it become like this? Manning shall be increased from three to four persons. I guess that's hardly enough or in line with Storting's intentions. 22 municipalities in the Intermunicipal Committee against Acute Pollution claim that "the State has abandoned them", according to the Official Journal of Bergen on 14 January this year. Nor is it in line with better coordination and stronger preparedness. The Secretary of State of the Minister comforts the Westerners that, of course, the responsibility of the State is to set up if an oil tanker may crash. However, when such accusations are made between different actors with roles in preparedness, it is a signal that there must be a failure in the clear division of responsibilities and in the coordination work for which, in other words, the State is responsible. Early in the summer the media also reported a leak on the pipeline between Kollsnes and Sture. Fortunately, it was not so big, but it revealed that the procedures for detecting and dealing with such situations failed. The responsibility of supervision for this is therefore the responsibility of the State. I think it is reasonably clear that the view of the Stortinge from 1994 has not been satisfactorily followed up. Here the Minister for the Environment shares responsibility with other ministers in previous governments. The important thing is not to discuss it, but to look forward to what can be done to improve oil protection in the future. Both in the oil industry and within the local authorities concerned in Hordaland, it has been noted that the availability of public and private resources for oil protection should be given a stronger regional organisation for better interconnection and efficiency. Today’s model appears to be decentralised to be organised and dimensioned in order to combat accidents, whether they are offshore, in the coastal and coastal zones or – which can now be done by pipelines – on land. Better co-location and coordination of current resources in coastal stations will provide a significant increase in preparedness and more efficient economic resource use. The right considers that such innovation is necessary. It is natural that such stations are also located where the threat is greatest, for example: in the Fedje/Fensfjord area. It is a crossroads of thought that an oil tanker disaster in bad weather near the west coast can provide Norway with the greatest pollution disaster we have ever experienced. Nevertheless, there is widespread uncertainty as to whether preparedness is good enough, and whether the state actually has a proper strategy to ensure a well-functioning preparedness. In this context, it is required to be responsive by the Council of State, which the municipalities concerned have claimed that the Council of State does not have, but also with clear signals that this area will have a high priority in the years to come. As an absolute minimum, the requirements and wishes of the Stortinget in 1994 must then be met, with continuous preparedness, enhanced staffing, increased competence and better coordination. In this context, there should also be thought of reorganization, with more regional units, and not the decentralised structure that is at present, which may not be fully operational because there are too many people to take part in the work and too little priority for a full-scale preparedness in the event of accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e129	Total preparedness for oil spills consists of both safety measures to prevent the occurrence of accidents and a preparedness to limit the damage when an acute oil spill occurs first. I am concerned that we should have a satisfactory oil protection system at all times. Strengthening safety in the petroleum industry, both at sea and at land-based facilities, is therefore a continuous work. The same applies to efforts to strengthen oil protection, based on an interaction between the various actors responsible for preparedness, which together constitute a national emergency response system. Norwegian emergency preparedness is based on three preparedness levels under the pollution law. Private activities shall provide the necessary preparedness and take action on their own emergency discharges. Municipalities shall provide the necessary preparedness for minor cases of acute contamination which may occur or cause adverse effects within the municipality and which are not covered by private protection. The State shall ensure that preparedness for major cases of acute contamination not covered by private or municipal emergency response is in place. This means, in practice, that oil companies are required to be prepared to deal with acute oil spills from the petroleum industry from both the platforms at sea and land-based installations. Municipalities have a readiness for less waste, while state preparedness is in practice targeted at oil spills from ships. In the case of large emergency discharges not provided by private emergency response, the State shall ensure that private, municipal and state resources constitute a common national emergency response system. Operators on the base have established their own emergency organisation, NOFO – Norsk Oil Protection Association for Operator Companies – which disposes of its own oil protection units and emergency personnel. Municipal preparedness is organised in 34 intercommunal emergency areas, where municipalities cooperate on preparedness in their area. Host municipalities have been designated in each area with a special responsibility for coordination. On the part of the state, 15 state-owned property depots are currently established along the coast. Of these, five are located in the West. Together with significant private and municipal response resources, this represents the highest concentration of response resources in the country. The representative of Storting Solberg points out in the interview that it is desirable to have a regional base that can take a stronger responsibility for preparedness along the coast of the West. Two major regional response areas have already been established in Norway — one in Hordaland and one in Oslofjorden. The aim is precisely to coordinate the overall response capacities in these areas, so that we can take advantage of the overall competence and equipment available in the region. Exercises are held annually and all contingency plans are coordinated with a view to joint organisation and action. State pollution control has established a separate emergency station at Haakonsvern, co-located with the Coast Guard, which is the main contributor to the state’s maritime preparedness. In the light of a coordination agreement between the State and the main emergency response activities, regular coordination exercises are carried out using the overall response capacities in the West. At the same time, there has been increased emphasis on measures to avoid accidents in the same area. Preventive measures are, for example: the traffic control centre of Fedje. At present there is a strengthening of coastal preparedness, inter alia: in the West, by establishing a coordinated regional preparedness for the coastal and coastal zone by operators in the North Sea in cases where emissions from oil installations or pipelines threaten the coast. There has also been increased cross-sectoral cooperation in recent years in order to achieve a more effective state emergency response in the event of a possible oil disaster. At the heart of this is the cooperation between defence and environmental protection authorities with the deployment of oil protection equipment on coastguard vessels, training of personnel, assistance agreements and the establishment of the Internal Coast Guard and Coastal Preparedness and Operational Management Organisation. There is today close and good cooperation between the two authorities. Finally, I would like to mention that the environmental protection authorities, under State pollution control, are currently working on an environmental risk and preparedness analysis that evaluates the state's contribution to national preparedness. The risk and preparedness analysis is planned to be completed in spring 2000. Thereafter, State pollution control will propose any changes in the state’s preparedness, including depots. This work is expected to be completed during the autumn of 2000. We will not ignore the fact that this work will result in adjustments to the current state of preparedness. We are constantly working on the objective that preparedness should always be optimally dimensioned with regard to the likelihood of emissions, the environmental impacts that emissions could represent, and the costs involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e150	I listened to what the Council of State said, and I do not feel that the Council of State responded to the one element in the text of the interpelation: Does the Council of State think that the view of the Storting from 1994 has been followed up? I remind you that you wanted to do so, among other things. day-long manning on the base in order to ensure a better monitoring. I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment questions relating to the responsibility of the State as a supervisor, how it has been followed up in relation to the accidents in which it has been found that the procedures have not actually worked, which fortunately has not had significant consequences. But when you have missed the routines, what follow-up action has the State taken in relation to the examples? I want to comment on the fact that when the Council of State spoke, there was still a lot of lice in depots and little about the monitoring work that is necessary to have a quick response. I have to say that with the dialogue – or lack of dialogue – that is now, among other things. between the municipalities and the ministry, it appears that there is some communication failure both in relation to the clear division of responsibilities that was underlined and in relation to the coordinating responsibility of the State. Sees the Council of State that there is a need for a better dialogue with the municipalities in order not to get into a situation where the municipalities believe that oil protection is threatened by the state drawing, among other things. back the money that they have previously received for the standby? Sees the Council of State that the type of communication may have the effect that the coordination function that the country should actually have between the three different levels cannot function if there is considerable uncertainty and – as it is said, inter alia. from the port manager Standal in Bergen – it may seem that the state does not withdraw the money, but will return with responsibility for the municipalities and the local authorities if anything actually happens? Does the Council see that this should have been a better communication? Does the Council of State see that the view of the Storting has not been followed up, and in that case, will there be a better monitoring and a faster reaction form and a greater focus on that part of oil protection preparedness than is the case today? And what does the Council of State think about the question of not having such a decentralised structure, but perhaps establishing a stronger regionalisation of oil protection so that you can pool your skills better than you do today?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e157	As a Westerner, I'm used to talking fast, and I'm going to try to answer most of the questions that the representative asked in three minutes. If I don't reach that, I'll get back to something a little bit later. I believe that there is no doubt that the Storting's intention to strengthen oil protection in the West beyond what has been proposed in the communication has been followed up. Let me mention the following examples: there is a cooperation agreement between the SFT and the Defence Department, where the purpose of the agreement is to regulate the responsibilities and duties of the Defence and the SFT, respectively, in relation to oil protection operations managed by the State at the SFT. This Agreement shall apply, inter alia, to: Defence's involvement in SFT's operations management to ensure rapid activation of defence resources. Permanent oil protection equipment is located on three of the major coastguard vessels operating under the Coast Guard Quadron South. The internal coastguard is established and two of the vessels operating on the west coast have been fitted in such a way that they can act as damage management vessels. A coordination plan has been drawn up and put in place, a plan for the coordination of resources in the case of large oil protection operations, managed by the State at the SFT, and includes resource cooperation and site management together with Statoil Mongstad and Norsk Hydro Stureterminalen and Intermunicipal selection against acute pollution in the Bergens region. I also said in my post that we are in the process of evaluating the work that we have done, where we have, among other things. looks particularly at things that may not have worked well enough to date, for example. having sufficient surveillance and overview. We also look at the need for further coordination and coordination of the preparedness we have and the resources that can be deployed. At the same time, we are committed to maintaining the principle that there should be a division of responsibilities, and that not least private actors should still have a responsibility to deal with their own emissions. So I don't think the answer is necessarily a centralization, because we also need to have the preparedness spread across a large area, but the important thing is, of course, that coordination is good enough. In this respect, when the municipalities believe that the dialogue is not good enough, it is very much linked to the fact that they no longer receive the earmarked grant for municipal emergency response to acute pollution. I would like to stress that this has always been the intention. The municipalities have known since this post was created, that this was meant to be a start-up grant and not an operating grant, so that there has at least been no lack of clear signals from the authorities – to the extent that there has been a confusion around this point. But of course, I'm always concerned with having as close and good a dialogue with the municipalities as possible, and will in the follow-up of this work ensure that those who want a closer dialogue with the Council of State and the Department get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e172	I have to start by saying that I think it is very good that this is now being taken up, as Erna Solberg has done. We in the West have a very high interest in this matter. It is clear that we are following closely the decisions taken in June 1994 on oil protection. Let me also say that the activity in the extractive and petroleum sectors in general will, fortunately, continue, including in the coming years, and there is expected to be an increase in geographical spread. It is therefore also clear that this preparedness must be adapted to the activity. I would also like to stress that it is not just the oil activity that needs to be seen in this context. We also have a ship's fleet, and the strong traffic off the coast is disturbing. Not only is there an increasing traffic that worries, but the ships that run the coast are getting older and the standard is falling. This means that we need to look at many aspects of our preparedness and prevention. This applies not only to oil bilges but also to requirements for shipping, to requirements for the crew to operate the equipment, and also to the highest extent to requirements for the traffic control centres. It's not only on Fedje we've got a traffic centre, we've now lucky enough also got a good traffic centre on Witsøy. We see that the activity at Kårstø – Kårstø plants, the large refineries and the receptions that are there – also leads to increased traffic, and thus also increased competence. What the interpellant was also about, and the people are very concerned about, is how we are going to protect the new industry, that is, the aquaculture industry, if an accident should occur. It is important here that we are clear that we also need coordination of preparedness in this area. I am not going to involve the last major speedboat disaster that was over there, but it is clear that the Minister for the Environment must also refer to other government councils here, and see how they prioritise their tasks and their organisation of security in these areas. So it's not just one state council that's attached to this, but it's a total responsibility for the government in terms of the different coordination that has to be done here. Finally, let me say that there is no doubt that it is the State that has the overall responsibility for coordination, and then I refer to what the interpellant said, and what is also in the May 1994 vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e183	The need for good and functioning oil preparedness is very important for a country with a large oil transport and a long coastline. Our coastline with locally very complicated navigation conditions along with our climate and weather conditions provides a significant increase in the risk of accidents compared to other coastal nations. It is important to be aware that this is a problem which also includes other shipping, not least the movement of Russian rust caves, with or without nuclear reactors on board. On the basis of an overall assessment, a particular emphasis must be placed on good and effective coastal air surveillance for the purpose of accident and pollution warning. It is also worrying that oil protection potentials are inadequately equipped with lenses and other materials for a situation where major accidents occur. In particular, a question may arise as to whether the capacity and safety of the required bilges are sufficient. One cannot assume that all major accidents occur in good weather. Especially are waves over five meters problematic. It's not an unusual wave height in our waters. I would like to refer to the Minister for the Environment's reply to the representative of Bastesen in Wednesday's Question Time. When someone sees another country's preparedness and legislation, I want, among other things, refer to the United States of America and the Oil Pollution Act, which were designed according to the major shipshavars, with high oil emissions and pollution as a result. This concerns in particular the unlimited objective liability of charterers and owners for the safe chartering of goods. The responsibility for long-term effects without time limits is also included here. Such legislation, which clearly refers to who is responsible and who is responsible for the polluter, also has preventive effects. This is seen in particular in the increased focus on the environmental protection aspect of cargo that currently applies to charterers. One can therefore conclude that one must see legislation and preparedness in the context. There is a need for good preparedness when accidents are out, but there is also a need for clear legislation to prevent accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e196	SV has been concerned with this problem in connection with the budgetary procedure, for example. by promoting the strengthening of the SFT in a purely economic way, so that one has means of strengthening preparedness in this area as well. I think it's important that we all here at Stortinget grab hold of the future. We have the first chance of everything being revised. It's a paradox that we here at the Stortinget talk about the North Sea being mature, so we're on the verge, while we still drive and discuss whether we have a proper preparedness. It's a real paradox. Then one might say that hell is better than understanding so far. Let's look at what happened to, for example, ‘Exxon Valdez’, and now delayed in Biscayabukta. If we had got something like this in Norway, the consequences would be enormous, for example. Climatic conditions, which have been pointed out by others here, for example: farming facilities and conditions in general. What I think is important to come up with is just to take the concerns that the interpellant has in terms of liability and in terms of economics as well. The Council of State must conclude that the State has a superior responsibility here and that it is important for the Storting to ensure that the SFT, like the one implementing it, is strengthened through budgetary procedures, so that one can afford to adjust the preparedness. At the same time, there is also a need to make sure that there are stricter requirements for follow-up by companies. They always let go too cheap. That's the main challenge of this interpellation. Let me agree on what the representative Nordtun here was into. We have a hurry with ships that go along the Norwegian coast, flagged ships, that are clean rust holes, and that are constantly creating problems for us. Here, too, there's an international responsibility to grips with the bad business it seems to be, that's the riding industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e207	Then there will be another Westerner going up here to express joy at the interpellant travelling this interpellance, for this is a central and important question for the entire Norwegian coast, from Svinesund to Grenense-Jakobsev. But there is no doubt that the concern for a disaster will be the greatest in the West and perhaps in the region from Rogaland to Sogn and Fjordane. Mongstad and Sture are large oil installations located in hard weather areas and with some difficult navigation conditions. In short: high traffic, weather conditions, importance of the coastal area, inter alia: in the case of aquaculture, but also fisheries, housing and recreation, preventing damage and, where appropriate, repairing in connection with the occurrence of an accident is extremely important. In this context, reference must also be made to the fact that prevention is absolutely central and in many ways the most important. Then there is cause for concern when you look at both the sizes of the ships that run up towards Mongstad, to take it concretely, and also the quality of the boats that go. It is then important both to impose requirements on ships and to ensure optimal navigation conditions. In addition, it is also important to ensure monitoring and damage prevention in the event of an accident first. Now, fortunately, a good deal has happened, and I think that the situation today is due to, among other things. the traffic centre of Fedje and other traffic centres is better than it has been in the past. There is also absolute reason to stress the fact that defence is also being used as an important part of oil protection. It is important that the State takes overall responsibility. It is also important to stress the responsibility of each actor in this picture. In this context, I believe that there is reason to stress the importance of having compensation rules and certainty that liability will be followed up, including: because it would strengthen the claims of insurance companies on the ships allowed to be operators.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e220	It's nice that there's cross-political joy, and that everyone expresses the will to do something about oil protection along the long-range coast we have. But we in the Progress Party – which is very concerned with security and that we are going to have a system that is up to two dates and that can take care of this if the accident should be out – are not satisfied that this work, in our opinion, has been prioritised down. We are not satisfied with the fact that we have an environmental protection minister who is more concerned with other things and awareness-raising work in many other areas, but with regard to the long-range coast we have, we see that the government, although they have said that one of their most important struggles is to get something done on the environmental side, does not follow up sufficiently. The interpellation and initiative of the Right also delights us in the Progress Party. We see that it is now time for us to sit down and the Stortinget to impose obligations on the Minister for the Environment and coordinate work in this area in a much better way than what we see today. We know that there are different stations that are in the picture when it comes to preparedness. We know that public and private people have a responsibility. In the same way that one sees it in the government, whether it's patients or others who's going to have services from the public, we see that the individual floors are indebted to each other, and that no one is going brightly in and takes a responsibility here. That is why, in the Progress Party, it is important that one also listens to and listens to local actors in practical policy. We think it's good that we have White Island. We think it's good that we have a traffic hub on Fedje, which has proven to be very good based on the number of sailings that go both to Mongstad and Sture. This has to be further developed, because we depend on the coast. We rely on a government that has credibility and can in confidence carry out this work in practice. It's actually too late to do anything when the disaster is over. That is why we in the Progress Party believe that this government that is now sitting needs to learn from the best that one has done internationally – the US Coastguard has been mentioned here, the Defence is also mentioned as an important player – in order to follow up and coordinate this work. But first of all, if the government cannot afford to spend money on this to the extent necessary to get this ‘up to date’, then at least one should put everything in place to improve coordination of work between the different agencies. Here it is important that the Minister for the Environment keeps the pressure up, so that we get something done in this area. Of course, we in the Progress Party should follow this work further, and it should not be on us in terms of security. I also hope that we can agree on a cross-political basis that, after all, it is important for the oil nation of Norway to have an environmental protection that is worthy of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e231	I agree that compensation rules and clear rules for it have a preventative effect, but when the incident is first out, it is not so much a pleasure to be able to send the bills somewhere. The most important thing is the other thing we do to make sure that the accident does not have so much scope if it happens first, and that we organize the work well at the moment we know about an accident. I don't think it's going to be a blow in our export markets to start selling salmon in crude oil either. There's something that tells me that it's not going to be perceived as pure food or other things in other countries. I note that the Council of State has in a way avoided commenting on my information on what the Stortinget actually said in 1994 when it was related to the basic function, including day-to-day preparedness, increased staffing, necessary competence. I see it as an indirect admission that in that area at least the Storting's wishes have not been fulfilled. I think we can also clearly see that when we see what actual development has been like. Then I also record that the Minister for the Environment says that there is an evaluation and a review of the preparedness to look at the coordination functions as well. By looking at the debate we have had here, I almost assume that it is reported back to the Storting on the outcome of that evaluation, so that there will be a wide debate on the organisation of preparedness in the years to come and on which areas to focus more. So I think I'm going to give advice to the Environment Minister, in view of the fact that this could probably be the biggest disaster we'll be able to experience in Norway – it's very likely that it can happen because of the high activity we have – namely, a larger one, for example. tanker wreck along the west coast. Then almost a state council cannot live with the fact that the important actors in the municipalities experience her as an arrogant, not to communicate with. I will therefore be allowed to give it to the Council that perhaps the Council of State should enter into dialogue quite quickly with the 22 municipalities which form the main group of the basic preparedness on the coast of the West. I don't think we can have communication relationships where you feel that you don't get into dialogue about how it actually works. I hope, as I have said, that the Council of State has put its heart to the fact that this is a broad political support for what was meant in 1994. You want to strengthen your preparedness, and you may also be willing to look at any other way to organize it to get better. Monitoring and more effective coordination — and I particularly point out this — are important, and coming back to Stortingen with the review that has been carried out, so that a broad debate can be held on what is needed to strengthen preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e247	Let me start by stressing that I believe that both in my first response to the interpellant and in the follow-up response, I have explained that in the follow-up to the Storing Message, more has been done in terms of oil protection in the West, than the news of big business and what the Storting has asked for – just so it is clearly said from here. I fully agree that it is important not to be perceived as arrogant and to have a good dialogue with the municipalities, but I would like to stress that from my side it has never been stated that I am not willing to engage in dialogue, that it has never been impossible to answer direct enquiries. I am a little afraid that some of this – the perception of arrogance – is due to the fact that you have not been willing to go back to the fact that the post office on the state budget has been cut out, and it becomes a little too simple for me in relation to the lack of dialogue. But I am concerned about good dialogue with the municipalities and will, of course, also focus on it in the future. So the interpellant says that when the accident is first out, it's incredibly important to reduce the magnitude of the accident. I fully agree with that. I believe that – with all due respect, I was born in Bergen and grew up in the brook of the West – I have a certain understanding of the challenges and problems of the coast. There is no doubt that one of our biggest challenges in this matter is that we have a long and difficult coast, and it's weathery. This means that whenever we provide opportunities for different types of business, we must always balance different considerations with each other. And that of course means, as has been said here, that we need to put great emphasis on prevention. Unfortunately, we are in that situation, although we have the best available equipment available, that with wave heights above a certain number of meters and with wind speed over a certain number of meters per. second, it's limited what we can do to pick up the spills and discharges once the accident has happened. This means that both the Council of State and the Grand Duchy have to take inwards that when opening up different types of activities along the coast, there is also a certain risk involved. It concerns shipping, but not least the oil business. I also believe that in the evaluation we are now carrying out, we need to pay particular attention to issues such as monitoring and coordination, on which the interpellant has been involved. That's what we're about to do. I said that this work is now in progress and that the result will be in the autumn of 2000. This report will of course be public, and I am also prepared to take this up in a round in Stortinget if there is a wish on the part of Stortinget about it. Then it was said here that it was important to learn from other countries when, for example, it was. cooperated with the Defence. And then I'll be allowed to say, as I said in my first answer, that this is just one of the areas where we have good and close cooperation, and where we are probably in the first row also internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e260	Let's go to case No. 2, and the president turns from the shoreline of the hall to the interior of the hall. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e274	First, I would like to inform the President that there are also coastal strips in Eastfold. So for the interpellation. The background for me to travel the interpellation is the strong turbulence that has been around this question throughout the last year. Since the Stortingen debated the 1997 report on predatory game, the problems have changed in character. At that time, the debate was only about the relationship between wolf and sheep and domestic animals on the outback. Now the wolf has settled in densely populated strata, and entire wolf families act closely within the homes of people. Wolf in densely populated areas has not been discussed in the position at all. We need a new review of the game management where there is a stronger focus on the wolf-human relationship. I think it's hard to find any case that has split and that splits people more than this case does. It's enough to read newspaper articles for and against the wolf. There seems to be a broad consensus on the main lines here in Stortinget and in the Government on the management plans for the large predators. However, the debate in the media around the turn of the year between the members of the government, as well as the statements of some representatives of big business, shows that consensus is well on the way to making full cracks. If the wolf had been aware of all the attention it gets in the media, from all the angry participants at the public meetings and from the many riot lists and shooting wolf groups, it would have thanked it for good food – and took the legs. An increasing number of people are preparing to fight today’s predatory management, whether they live in Namdalen, Østerdalen or in Østfold. The most often focussed is on people who are livestock owners, and rarely on the consequences of the great wolfiness of a community. It was claimed, for example, that in the Skiptt that many inhabitants have changed life patterns after the wolf’s arrival in the village. Children’s families feel insecure, parents take off from work in order to drive children to kindergarten, school and leisure activities, many feel that they can no longer travel safely in forest and land, dog owners have stopped having the dog outdoors – the quality of life is greatly reduced for many. In addition, the wolf’s hunting instinct has shown that it kills far more animals than is necessary to meet its nutritional needs. Many livestock have suffered from severe suffering. It is strong to experience that three-four wolves stand and tear and labor in a living heifer just near the house. The Minister for the Environment, said on Wednesday in Stortinget that the danger of being hit on the school road is far greater than that the children could be attacked by wolves, but opened the door open so that the state could contribute to school kissing, and thus did not reject the fact that wolves could be dangerous. For people who live safely in blocks and in a clean asphalt environment, it may seem that people’s anxiety is unfounded and that they are in crisis. It's still the wolf hasn't put his teeth in anyone, yet people in the countryside are afraid of the wolf – and there are more and more of them. Neither the Directorate of Nature Management, the Ministry of Environment, the Government nor we in the Stortinge can further ignore these requirements or opinions. People have a right to be taken seriously, they have a right to be heard, they have a right to feel safe, and they have a right to the maintenance of the nutritional basis. The information has not been provided. I am not so sure that people will trust it either, because many so-called experts have said that the wolf does not take heifers or large livestock, they do not jump over fences, and they are quite harmless. All this has been done by the wolf, it has both taken heifers and it has jumped over fences, and it has even crept under fences. Moreover, the wolf has become a time-consuming task for the local administration, without any significant funds being made available. In Hedmark, where the wolf first settled, the livestock losses are the major problem/discussion theme; in Østfold, there is much more focus on fear, on the proximity of the wolves and how little they are saved. This is a situation that neither the Directorate nor the Ministry of the Environment has dealt with. They just haven't been good enough with the information. The report emphasises the need for all levels of management to have open communication and dialogue with those living in and to have industrial interests in the predatory areas. Open communication makes the public feel they don't have. We're going to be close to 2 million. kr on wolf information. This information shall be directed towards the whole country, and in particular to the areas in which the wolf has settled. Why in the world hasn't it come before? Things take time, says media coordinator Svein Nic. Norberg in the Media Directorate, and indicates that the work on this information package had been started in the autumn. It is a bit late according to the setting of the wild game message, because there is a focus on information coming out early. In Eastfold, the population demands to know what kind of wolf it is in the district. That's what they've been doing most lately, and after what I see in the newspapers, it's going to be published today. I must say it has taken quite a while to confirm what kind of wolf has been hit and killed in Svinndal. And then you can ask what's so wrong with today's predatory management. The main charge is that you have not managed to promote a management plan. The main lines of the Robbery Notice state that the country should have a viable wolf tribe. However, the guidelines on how to preserve the wolf in Norwegian nature while protecting the human right to safety and nutrition are lacking. There is a lack of creativity and commitment to various protective measures. That is what must happen if we are to be able to have both agriculture and wolves in the same district. As long as we in Norway are dealing with buffalo, which is also wolf food, we must therefore also be able to regulate predatory populations. Wolves and sheep cannot graze side by side – even in the Bible it was found out. The peoples of Eastfold, Hedmark, Oslo and Akershus have produced a proposal for a zoning plan for wolves, which extends in a long intestine from Halden in the south to Rena in the north. So the wolf is going to move all over Eastfold, but not in Nordmarka. Trysil is also wanted except. In Rendalen, Stor-Elvdal and Engerdal, there are large areas where there are no sheep, areas about as large as the whole of Eastfold – yes, there should be no wolf, it has been promised to the rapporteurs. But then the pressure on restitution will become ever greater in Eastfold. And when you compare the population density, you have to say that Eastfold with its 250,000 inhabitants will then get an incredibly high pressure. Now we also know that the wolves are multiplying like pikes. At the same time, the Minister for the Environment is refusing to tell us how many wolves we are going to have in Norway. It is certain that we will have from eight to ten family groups together with Sweden, but it has not been said how many there should be. It is claimed that the target has not been reached. A strong protection will be maintained until the target is reached. The management plan it is currently working on will not provide concrete figures for stock targets either for Norway or for the region of Hedmark, Akershus and Østfold, said Director Lier Hansen in October. A report of predators has just been submitted in Sweden proposing an increase of 200 wolves. It has also been suggested from a central point of view that Norway is ready to take responsibility for all areas of revir because the Swedish administration is out of control and will not cooperate. Despite the fact that there is a draft regional management plan with the areas concerned in each country, a breakdown of population in each country will not be considered. The Minister for the Environment has to clarify these issues through the examination of the management plan. In addition, I have also been informed that the sounding plan will be adopted by the State Council in the near future, and should obviously not be part of the management plan, which is to be consulted. Hasn't the Minister for the Environment intended to inform the Storting about the zoning plan at all before its adoption? I also wonder: Has the Stortinget provided such a basis for the Government to adopt a sonar plan without it being submitted to the Stortinget? I must say that both the sonar plan and the management plan must be consulted. The local authorities must be able to make their views known. It may not be possible for the Government to adopt such an important part of the management plan as the zoning plan is, without the local authorities being consulted. It can't be accepted. And when I read the settings of the rapture message, I can't believe that you have the right to do this without the Stortinges being informed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e308	The management of the large predators has been dealt with by the Storting on several occasions in recent years. In the examination of the 1997 notification of wild game, the Stortinge said that viable populations of all four major predatory game species in Norway should be ensured, while at the same time having an active agriculture, with the possibility of exploiting grazing resources in the outland both for sheep and for reindeer. In the 1997 report, the South Scandinavian wolf population was estimated to be three-four family groups. It was pointed out that the population is so small that random events, such as accidents which can quickly lead to the disappearance of the whole population. The majority of the population assumed that, until now, every individual of the wolf must have a strict protection. It was pointed out that the Norwegian and Swedish authorities have a common objective of establishing at least eight-ten family groups in southern Scandinavia. This is now being followed up. For the first time in 1997, it was shown for a long time that wolves have bred in Norway. In winter 1998–99, six family groups of wolves were detected in Scandinavia, three of them in Sweden, one in Norway and two with reefs across the national border. Preliminary reports of the wolf population in November and December 1999 show as many family groups in southern Scandinavia as in the previous winter, but the number of family groups on the Norwegian side has increased from one to three. Final conclusions on population development in the last year can only be drawn after the winter's traces have been completed. The wolf is classified as ‘directly endangered’ in a national survey of endangered species in Norway published by the Directorate for Nature Management in August 1999. I see it as important that the Scandinavian wolf population approaches a viable level. In the treatment of the wild game notification, the bulk of the population stressed the need to strengthen efforts to test out and implement prevention measures. Measures such as supervisory arrangements, the transfer of sheep to alternative grazing areas, previous lowering and the organisation of alternative production were mentioned. I assume that the representative of Nakkim in his question of prevention specifically aims at measures aimed at preventing the damage of wolves to bumps. I place great emphasis on harm prevention measures in the buffer industry in those areas where there are pairs or family groups of wolves. During the grazing season of 1999, significant efforts were made to prevent damage to sheep in an area north of Hedmark, where a family group and a wolf couple with puppies were involved. The measures included, inter alia: the movement of sheep to another grazing area, extensive surveillance, inland grazing and previous lowering. This proved to have a positive effect in avoiding the loss of sheep. We have good experience of working with the municipalities concerned and are planning preventive measures for future grazing seasons. The work is based on the structure of last year and will take place in close cooperation with the municipalities. This shows that the prevention measures taken by Stortinget during the treatment of the wild game notification are under follow-up. This work has not been completed, and there is still a need for considerable efforts to test and apply different prevention measures in the future. Since 1997 the number of wolves in Norway has increased. The administrative challenge is thus different today from two to three years ago. However, this does not give reason to change the principles of government. When examining the State budget for 2000, the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment stated that the main lines of the predatory game policy should remain firm and that the authorities must continue to actively contribute to mitigating the level of conflict. The majority of the Committee pointed further to the need for more knowledge and better information on the large predators. The majority also considered it necessary for the Directorate for Nature Management to establish a small group of hunters that can contribute to effective felling. In addition, the Ministry of the Environment has been asked to consider alternative organisational models for damage documentation work. I am now in the process of following up these majority remarks. Some of those who live where the wolf groups have sustenance feel fear at the thought of meeting the wolf in close proximity. This is an area where it's especially important with transparency and naughty information, it's an area we've been working on for a long time, and it's a work that we've now stepped up. On the part of environmental protection authorities, we will do our part to help us get a good dialogue and good information out. We have received information from Sweden today on genetic testing of the so-called wolf hybrids. They suggest that it is certain that these puppies are a mixture of wolf and dog. We have also been found to be one of the puppies of the so-called Hagforskull, born in 1998. This male wolf wandered into the area and collided with wolfitispa only in March 1999 before the mixed puppies were born. The further process is now that the Directorate for Nature Management will take decisions on the killing of the hybrids as soon as possible. I would like to conclude that there is currently extensive follow-up work in the forest game management, in line with Storting’s objectives and guidelines. The management of wolves has a high priority. We aim to send proposals for both the management plan and the zoning policy for wolves to be consulted during the spring. Close dialogue has also been established with the Stortinget on further developments in this area of management. I intend to propose changes to the game law during the spring. In the context of the legislative amendment, more detailed information will be provided on both the 1999 grazing season loss situation, prevention measures and the management of wolves.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e344	I must say that I am pleased that we have finally received the results of the testing of the wolf herd that has been in Skiptvet, that the suspicion that this has been a hybrid family is now confirmed, and that the decision is taken in accordance with what has been said in the past, that this group will then be put to death. We appreciate that, but I have to say that it has taken an incredible amount of time before we have received it. The fact that it has now finally been decided that both the sonar plan and the management plan should be consulted in order to get a thorough review of this will be important. But I must also point out that it is amazing that we are laying out parts of the country and giving assignments only to the people of Hedmark, Oslo and Akershus and Eastfold, that it is only where we are going to lay out areas for wolves, that we are not going to look elsewhere in the country where it would be possible. I would also like to ask the Council of State to say something about the rapture message that has been submitted in Sweden now, where they want to increase the wolf population by 200. It will have a big impact on how we are going to behave here in Norway. In addition, it has also been said that if Sweden does not take responsibility, Norway will take that responsibility. I believe that there must be a certain distribution, and therefore I would like to ask the Council of State again: how is cooperation with Sweden in this area? After the censuses that have emerged and the results we have been informed about, Sweden has not been interested in having a distribution, and there has been much more illegal shooting of wolves – therefore the wolf population there has also been reduced. If it is the case that Norway is going to have to take the whole load, I am afraid that in Norway you will do the same thing as in Sweden, take the matter in your own hands and shoot the wolf. I agree with the Minister that the main lines are fixed. We have said that we should have a viable wolf tribe in Norway. But what it's all about is how many wolves we need to have in order to have a viable tribe in Norway. It has been suggested that one with Sweden should have eight-ten family groups, but nothing is said about how large these family groups should be and how to deal with this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e355	To the extent that the interpellant is pleased that the test result from the retest of the hybrids in Eastfold is now available, I can at least tell the interpellant that I believe that the Council of State is at least equally pleased with it. I can assure you that this has been done as quickly as possible. There has never been anyone who has been interested that there should be uncertainty about this. But at the same time it is that without being able to take any other than resamples of the pups that have been killed, without being able to take samples of a suspicious father, it is unfortunately time to get the results. However, I am just as happy as the interpellant that they are now available. So the interpellant said in his first post that there were rumors about what the government has been thinking and not thinking about in terms of zoning policy. I have also recorded that there are a lot of rumors at all times in the area of the predatory game policy and, in particular, the wolf management. But I can't relate to that. What I have to deal with is the policy and discussion conducted internally in the Government, and so we have found it right to send zone policy and management plan to parallel consultation so that they can be seen in context, while emphasising that this should be done so quickly that before the grazing season we will be able to have guidelines to deal with. I know that not least people out in the affected municipalities and people in the industry are concerned about and interested in that. Then the interpellant also argued that in Sweden there is now a proposal to have 200 wolves. That is right, but I would like to stress that this is a proposal that has so far been promoted purely administratively, and which has not been dealt with politically in Sweden, so that I would warn against presenting this as official Swedish policy. We're basing on what's in the report that there are going to be eight-ten family groups in South Scandinavia, and we're also assuming that there's going to be a distribution between Norway and Sweden. I have not received any official signals from the responsible team in Sweden that they have now changed their view of this and no longer want to cooperate. Then I was in the middle of my first answer to the interpellant that before we have summed up the tracking of snow and the count that is now going on for the first time, it is very difficult to have absolute and safe knowledge of how many wolves we have in Norway. That's why the government has put so much emphasis on having this implemented. We are absolutely convinced that it is only by certain knowledge that we can both get good management and decide on how many wolves we must have, when the objective is eight-ten family groups divided into Norway and Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e366	The majority of the population in the Grand Duchy set a target in 1997 to have viable populations of the four major predatory species in Norway. At the time of the processing of the report of predators, the situation of the southern Scandinavian wolf population was serious. The stock was classified as directly threatened, i.e. an unviable population. I'll give the interpellant right in that the essentials have happened in these three years, the population of the wolf has taken up considerably. It may now appear that the southern Scandinavian wolf tribe has exploded in recent years. I don't think that's the case. Still, the wolf is a rare individual in the Scandinavian forests, and we still have a little bit left before the goals set by the Stortinget for the populations, to establish eight to ten family groups, are met. How vulnerable the wolf as a species is, we have been demonstrated by the developments that have taken place in Sweden in the last year. A year ago, over 70 pst. of the population on the Swedish side. Today it's the opposite. Two of the Swedish wolf families have disintegrated, and have disappeared. The wolf has received a lot of attention in the media in the last year. I think that after last year's sheep grazing season, we have to admit that the Yur's herrings in the Dovrefjell area have had a much greater damage than the wolf's, and that the damage done by the wolf, for comparison, is modest. This is mainly due to two factors: through comprehensive prevention measures in Great Elvdal, the Directorate for Nature Management and the Minister for Environmental Protection have succeeded in preventing the large wolf massacre. The working party is very pleased with the efforts that have been made to protect the large amounts of sheep that graze in this area. At the same time, we will stress that before next year's grazing season, we must have a management plan for wolves in place. And I'm glad the Council of State is now signaling this. We depend on setting up a zone plan and a management plan, so that we have the means to steer the wolf away from the most sheepy areas in Hedmark. We recognise that we are unable to deal with wolves everywhere, and with a zoning plan and a management plan, environmental protection authorities can be more operational in preventing potential conflicts between sheep and wolf. Changes in the law of the wild are now being worked to make it possible to remove the wolf before any significant damage is done. The Workers' Party believes this is a necessary legislative change to prevent wolves from establishing themselves in areas where they would do very much damage. Man's relationship with the wolf has always been marked by fear. The fear of the wolf that is now being expressed, for example: In Eastfold, we have to take it seriously. The Labour Party believes that extensive information and knowledge about the wolf is important to provide the population in these areas, and we are therefore very pleased that the Minister for the Environment is launching a comprehensive information campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e385	As Mr Østfold's representative, I would like to say that the experience we have gained in our own country shows that today's predatory policy is not appropriate in the current situation. The assumptions underlying the treatment of St.meld. No 35 for 1996-97, has now been completely changed. Wolves have settled throughout Eastfold counties, even up to cities and towns, with the economic, animal ethical and emotional consequences of this. Therefore, it is important that new and negative experiences are backed up by a credible management strategy. Pending a national management plan for wolves, a core area management must not be put in place, which means an unreasonable and biased burden on individual districts. The current situation confirms that nuclear establishment is inappropriate as an instrument. Politicians cannot decide where predators are going to move. The animals decide themselves, and move naturally enough in those areas where it's easiest to find food. The situation has changed altogether and gives rise to concern. There are, therefore, strong indications that a new treatment should be taken up to the end of the robber’s report. The Berne Convention has been interpreted from a number of quarters in such a way that it is to be added to the establishment of solid strains of predatory species, e.g. wolf, which has not been part of Norwegian fauna for a long time. The Convention is intended to be a tool to help ensure endangered animal species. However, the wolf trunk, with its Swedish base, which is genetically the same wolf that exists in large parts of Finnish and Russian territory, is not threatened. It has been time to clarify the status of the possible hybrid group in Eastfold. Sommel in the administration and not the complexity of the work on genetic clarification has been the reason why it has taken so long to reach a final decision. Today, there are answers to the genetic tests that determine the fate of the four wolf puppies. The tests establish that Gyro and her siblings are hybrids. It's time, because it's now just before the puppies walk out of the flock, which can make it problematic to find out about the animals. Now the situation is simplified because there is total agreement that wolf hybrids are unwanted. It is not accepted to have crossing between wolf and dog in Norwegian fauna. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to give the Council of State a boost so that she will now follow up her previous promises to have the animals removed as soon as possible now that the wolf hybrid theory has been verified.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e402	The challenges of predatory policies are both large and difficult, the involvement is large and the fronts are partly steep. The matter itself is complicated, but also the emotional aspects of it are very strong and must therefore be taken seriously. Today's predatory policies and management are based on a large majority in the Grand Duchy. This majority has not changed significantly since the Storting debated the matter in 1997. The Energy and Environment Committee confirmed in its recommendation to the State budget for 2000 that the main lines of predator management should remain firm. This implies political agreement that Norway should have viable populations of the four major predatory species. Kjellaug Nakkim points out in his interview that a lot has happened since 1997 – and that is, of course, correct. On the one hand, the number of predators has increased, not least in the case of wolves, and on the other hand, significant steps have been taken by the Government to improve management with a view to reducing the level of conflict between different interest groups affected by the development of predators in various ways. Harm prevention measures have been applied and need to continue to be given high emphasis in those areas where groups or individuals of predators are present. A number of measures have been taken, as underlined by the Council of State in its statement, and in addition, the work on shorter treatment periods for breeding applications should be highlighted. The experience with this so far shows that it is now producing results. Nevertheless, the level of conflict is high and it should therefore be carefully assessed whether potential pests should be more readily removed before damage is done. I hope that will be a reality. Such measures can be an effective tool for both domestic and human suffering, while helping to reduce the level of conflict. Otherwise, it is with pleasure that we have now received the message from the Council of State and confirmation that these individuals in Eastfold are hybrids. There is then a clear political consensus that they should be shot and not be included as part of the wolf management plan. I hope this will allow itself to do quickly. Thus, in the case of the population of predators, including wolves, there is much evidence of a strong increase, as Kjellaug Nakkim points out. There's hardly any disagreement about that. But how large the increase is, we don't know for sure. The measures put in place by the Government for more intensive tracking are therefore important to ensure effective knowledge of stock development. However, once the stock targets are met, we face a significant challenge to counter further increases both in family groups and in individuals. Among other things, we must: Consider quota hunting also for wolves, as we have today for gloat. It is often claimed from District Norway and the livestock industry that you feel that you will never be heard. It's a signal that needs to be taken seriously. A good management policy depends on a respectful dialogue between authorities and stakeholders. We must also take seriously the fears expressed by many, not least in Eastfold. This must also be given importance to further work, including on the part of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e421	As seen in large parts of the country, predatory policies are completely out of control. The sooner the population will recognize it, the better it will be, and it will be the first premise to get predatory management on rails in the Kingdom. The only ‘positive’ I can see with this spread – and positive in the big goose eyes – is that there are now several people who have got the shoe on and who know where it is pressing. Unfortunately, almost no one takes over the problems that are being allocated to others. We got an interesting discussion about hybrids here. I just came from a seminar in the NHO on patent directives. Many express great concern about the spread of genetically modified maize. Perhaps some should be equally concerned with the spread of nature's own genes, if you can't imagine that this faithful male, probably because of a preventative failure, covered only by this one tispen in Eastfold. My question, which I think the Council of State should answer, is, how many hybrids are there in Norway? Is it really the case that only in Eastfold this kind of immorality takes place? So the Council of State pointed out that there are "fears at all times". Yes, rumors at any time were also discussed in the setting of St.meld. No 27 for 1991-92 – that the knowledge and experience of rural people over the centuries should be given as much emphasis as the knowledge that is in the enclosed research rooms and in the enclosed departments. I want to say that when Gunn Karin Gjul refers to this alleged idyll in the Great Elvdal, in my opinion it is a false representation of what is the current situation in the Great Elvdal. Some sheep farmers have been replaced in the Great Elvdal, others in the Great Elvdal are very dissatisfied, not to mention in the surrounding areas. But I'm glad that Gunn Karin Gjul says that you guys are a bigger problem. Then I agree that the wolf has received an undeserved attention. I still allow myself to ask when the recognition that we need a common predatory policy is going to be needed in the majority of the Storting. I am pleased that more information will be given about this. If the Council of State gets time, otherwise we'll find other occasions, I'd like to get an explanation of the story, at the latest in a petit in the Newspaper yesterday, about the Red Heat and the wolf – the new, beautiful story from our folk adventure – where the hunter is the big ugly wolf, while the Red Heat and the wolf jointly find good, agreed solutions for the grandmother.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e436	The President would point out that one in this Chamber should not say that co-representatives are lying.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e440	The representative, Kjellaug Nakkim, brings many with him when he points out that the level of conflict has risen many times after the Stortinget debated the report in June 1997. Yes, there is a damage documentation that has made a strong impression in Stortinget. I refer here, for example, to the joint Energy and Environment Committee expressed well over a year ago in the Budget. S. No 9 for 1998-99: ‘The Committee is aware that the situation in several places in the country is now very difficult. This applies to both sheep farming and reindeer farming.» Since that time, the situation has become more acute. The wolf population grows rapidly, as the interpellant points out. Local observations are often found to be reliable. As the Council of State said, since 1997 the number of wolves in Norway has increased. The challenge is thus different today from two to three years ago. Damage to the bump is one thing. Another issue has also been updated, the same as the Right Party and the Central Party expressed in a common note, namely that if the population of elk, deer and deer is severely reduced, the request for biological deficiency cannot be met. It has come to light lately, as the Council of State also notes, that people know fear in their everyday lives, and it has to be taken seriously. As Stortinget discussed the predatory message, there was no comprehensive knowledge of the size of the wolf population to appear viable. At a rather important point, the discussion three years ago went on a failed basis. It may therefore prove to be very demanding to follow up the objectives outlined and which are still widely debated. The government has expressed these objectives in the Adultås Declaration. As you know, the main line is to secure a viable wolf population in Norway, while at the same time we are to have an active farm with good exploitation of land resources. That's the last part of the goal that's now being challenged. Local communities cannot cope with current developments. There must therefore be solutions based on a radically lower level of conflict. The question is, of course, how much wolf we can have in Norway, a country where there are people everywhere, and how the situation can be controlled by effective and good management. I want to remind you that all thinking about this, all trying to find solutions, must naturally be linked to a Scandinavian perspective. I noticed that the Minister for the Environment took advantage of the ‘scandinavian wolf population’, because there is no Norwegian or Swedish wolf. The challenge must be to find an optimal location in South Scandinavia. where the level of conflict is less, for the benefit of both humans and animals. Otherwise, there is reason to go under what the State Council said about harm prevention measures. The question of pest extraction is particularly important and there is reason to be pleased with the signals that have come to put in place a more effective killing. It will also be a pleasure to welcome you to change your wildlife at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e458	I assume that I understand that some people can feel fear of the wolf. But I think it's important for the big-time representatives to say that they don't become the drivers of increasing that fear. I think that's a very important responsibility we have. Among other things, our task needs to be: be able to grant money so that we can acquire the knowledge we need about the realities, so that we can get research into administration and how we operate so that we can follow up the international commitments we have in this area. And then I have to make a side comment in relation to what has been going on lately, that one should now start with bus transport of school elephants. I think it's a completely wrong signal, and I think it's right as the interpellant says here, simply that one thus accepts that this is very dangerous. One then feels that the Minister for the Environment is on the defensive in his own government, that it is now the Council of State of Enoxen and the Central Party that takes over the governance of predatory policies, and one has seen what the Council of State of Enoxen says to it – it is almost that the simplest is a gun. So I just have to challenge the Minister for the Environment next round to answer if what I am now saying is the case. It is a fact that no one has been killed by wolves in Norway in 200 years, and I remind you that, for example, there are others who have been killed in Norway. The car takes a lot of lives, approx. 400 a year, and a good deal happens on the school grounds. I could imagine that the Storting spent a lot more time on it instead of, for example. spending as much time as we can on this problem. So my appeal to the majority of the population is that one at the budgetary procedure is systolic to provide more resources for prevention, research and to increase knowledge of wolves and predators in general. Finally, I have enough of a challenge for the Minister for the Environment. In Abruzzo, Italy – and probably several places as well – a systematic relationship between predators, buffs and humans, so that they can work together. The area included: The removal string. But then one experienced a powerful bloom, both of predators and of people moving back. Is this project for which the Minister for the Environment is interested to join Norway? We know that there is a lot of deportation in this country too.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e471	The representative of Langeland is sometimes speaking against better knowledge. He does that when he tries to create the impression that the Government is not a patent in environmental policy. The representative of Langeland should confirm that we have an environmental protection minister who definitely follows up the main lines of the policy laid down by the Stortinget, an environmental protection minister who, in an acute situation, in an acute debate, has shown backbone and firmness in pursuing policy, but who at the same time has committed himself to dialogue and to being responsive to the part of the population who experience today's policies as problematic. It must be possible to be responsive and assess various issues that arise without encountering the type of criticism that the representative of Langeland today presented. There is no doubt that the Government has a back coverage in the Grand Duchy of the policy it is pursuing in this area. It was last confirmed by the budgeting of the Energy and Environment Committee before Christmas. It is stated that the main lines of predatory policy are fixed and must be continued. There is no doubt that a majority in the United Kingdom wants us to have viable populations of all the major predatory species in Norway. It is also clear, as the representative Dale said, that it is a desire and a requirement for an active agriculture with the possibility of exploiting grazing resources in the countryside, combined with this predatory policy. I think that the Council of State well demonstrates that it is essential for the Government to have a good factual basis when adjusting policy and moving forward in this demanding area. I am surprised that representatives from the Right have an impatience that means that one is not prepared to wait for such a factual basis before going on and making adjustments and adjustments. In other matters that are currently being dealt with in this house, there are no limits to what the Right wants from information and will have as a basis for decision-making. But here's not a time to wait for registration numbers, data, tracking results, etc. Right is a value conservative lot. Therefore, I am amazed that the representatives Hernæs and Nakkim are being sent into the war against the wolves and other predators. There is so little nuanced that it appears as a disappointing picture of the balanced policy that we need in this area, and that I had hoped that the Right would help.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e480	The interpellation begins with the emergence of many demands for revision of predatory policies. A majority in the Grand Duchy says that the broad lines of predatory policy should be firm. The Labour Party and the Right state that the State must have greater responsibility for the killing of large predators in order to ensure effective regulation and that it will be anti-conflict. I agree that there have been changes since the adoption of the report on predators in 1997. There was hardly any solid wolf population in Norway. After that, there have been at least five family groups living in part on Norwegian soil. The purpose of the Norwegian administration is to establish eight to ten family groups in southern Scandinavia, some of which are in Norway. In fact, the wolf was about to be eradicated in Norway, but thanks to immigrants from Finland and Russia, we can hopefully soon fulfil the Berne Convention's obligations on a sustainable strain of our four largest predators. The Swedes also have the possibility to triple the number of wolves. This challenges the authorities, and it becomes even more necessary to coordinate administrations on both sides of the border. A basic document shall be signed in that context. It is true that the media has focused on the wolf as a threat to children and their own lives. Here we have a lot to learn from the Swedes. For a number of years, they have had considerable preparedness for the population, not least written information and other information activities, which have resulted in a positive attitude towards the wolf, especially in the most affected areas. Another important prevention measure is more research. Common knowledge builds more trust. Lack of knowledge creates myths and ground for vision. Research gives us, for example: responses in terms of stock development, stock data, prevention measures and, in particular, conflict mitigation measures and strategies. Research into the relationship between humans and predators, where the emphasis is on wolves, and good information from the kindergarten stage will in the future help us to live together with the natural heritage. This is new to today's generation, and it's important that we understand the fear that someone has. Research and information itself does not solve all problems. Therefore, in the future, the authorities must be aware of their responsibilities, find the balance between business activities and the permanent protection of our predators and have a law in place allowing the killing of wolves with abnormal behaviour and the general killing of predators that are believed to be in the process of causing harm.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e491	It seems that the interpellation debate has shown that there is probably more nuanced vision within tone-setting parties than what you seem to want to admit – that is, interpellation has been of great importance. You can't ignore what too many people feel like a threat 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. It's obvious that someone has listened to this, and then you can't do what anyone wants: give yourself security. That seems to be the goal of some. I think time will soon show that the Storting has to grips with this whole problem with greater weight and depth and with greater width than what you did last time, because the situation has changed. That's how you now express understanding to those who are affected. It becomes strange when, on the basis of an example from Italy, a rogaland spokesman believes that only one gets enough wolves into an area, people are happily moving after. I think it'll be good with rogalending rooms in the areas where the wolf's here, and then we'll count them afterwards. It's also true that some enthusiasts think it's okay to take out pests. That's probably all right in the case of bears, but in the case of wolves, I'm going to assume that it's going to be very difficult to learn the wolf's difference between sheep and other. But if you have faith in it, you'd like to have it. But the reality is that a predator is a predator. It seems more concerned with protecting wolves than with protecting people, with reference to the Berne Convention. I just think that in this country and in this big deal, we have to take in what characterizes the population that's always having this around us. And so there's someone who wants to pull out zones and say that here the wolf is not allowed to be. And who's going to stand and tell and teach the wolf this? It's not going to be cheap, not least for learning skills in this country. Then you're going to exempt Nordmarka. Yeah, it was just supposed to be missing! Imagine if Fido was taken and some lady at the best west edge was injured to have to run more than 30 meters! But that's obviously what SV would like to support. It's not that you can oblige predators to behave the way we humans want. I doubt that even the District Command of the East could be able to carry out general command of the predatory population, whether it be regional territory or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e508	It is gratifying that it is now finally clear that the wolves in the Shipyard are hybrids and shall be common. But it has taken a long time, and it has cost a lot of money. The current management of predators in the wolf has had significant and unforeseen consequences for many people in those areas where the wolf population has increased sharply. In the case of Eastfold states, which are very densely populated, I would say that there was no one here in the Chamber who predicted that the wolf would establish itself as close to the agglomeration and lead to as great problems as we have experienced in the last year, especially in the area of Våler-Sept. Children’s families feel insecure, parents have to take time off from work to transport children to and from school, kindergarten and leisure activities. People don't use forests and land for recreation to the same extent as before. We can't have it like that! We cannot have a predatory policy that not only leads to unacceptable animal tragods but prioritises predatory strains in front of people's need for safety and legal rights for the use of forests and land. There is now work in the Government on zone plans and management plans. I believe that the government cannot determine the zone areas without these being in the municipalities for consultation. It cannot be the case that, in a situation where conflicts with wolves continue to arise, and where anxiety and fear spread to increasingly large groups of the population, local politicians do not take them on board. That is why I am pleased that the Council of State is now confirming that both the zone plan and the management plan are to be consulted. It's positive. For here, as in all other areas, we must take local democracy with us on board. If we are to achieve a sober and sensible predatory policy here in the country, we must start working with those who have and will have the problems. Thereafter, the Stortinget should be submitted to both the zone plan and the management plan for treatment. I also believe that the Government must ensure that the county council is given the necessary powers to grant permission for the killing of undesired wolves as soon as possible, so that the worst damage can be avoided until we have control of the problems. We don't have that today. If we are to have a predatory animal management that takes care of both buffalo and predators, it cannot be that there should always be a buffalo and the people who are to give up, while predators should be able to live where they want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e525	It's obviously someone who doesn't like the wolf debate. I am pleased that this interpellation has clearly been important in the sense that the misunderstandings have now been cleared up – the zoning plan will be consulted, and it will come to Stortinget together with the management plan. That's good. But I have to say that I am very disappointed that there are some people who do not see that there have been changes in the situation since we dealt with the Robbery report in 1997. The fact that the wolf has now come to populous areas means that one must also focus on the relationship between humans and wolves. There has been no debate whatsoever, no precautions or guidelines have been taken in this respect. I also record that there are quite considerable differences of opinion within the various parties, and I have recorded that this has also been the case within the Government, which has also been shown in the media. It is not that the Right has sent Hernæs and Nakkim in war against the wolf. We're dealing with an inconceivable question that we wanted to get some clarifications on. Some clarifications have been given to us, and some will hopefully come when we get the management plan for debate. We have time to wait for the tracking and the results of them, but it is with some wonder that I register that now there are 70 pst. of the Scandinavian wolf population in Norway and 30 pst. in Sweden. This has turned around quite quickly, a few years ago it was just the other way around. We know that the wolf moves over large areas quite quickly, and that it splits into different groups, but we have to wonder that it is Norway that now has the majority and that Sweden has such a low share. And I have to say that the Minister for the Environment has not given a full definition of how to cooperate with Sweden in relation to these questions. You've made a commitment, that's okay. But how is the cooperation between the public authorities? I would like to have a better explanation for that. As it looks now, I don't think that cooperation has been as good as it should be. I also record that had this debate come before, and had the differences of opinion been expressed earlier, we might have adopted the old emergency court that the Right proposed in ours, and that we might have needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e538	I don't know if Stortinget's pulpit is the right place for a witness, but I'm not a masochist. Therefore, it falls on its own unreasonableness that the Council of State should have had any interest in dealing with the results of the genetic testing. I'm aware of the seriousness of the wolf debate, and that's why you might have to be a little bit careful with a humorous parallel, but it's actually the case when you're connoisserating a wolf, like in any other father's case, that you don't have a suspicious father, it takes longer to get the result. We have reason to believe that the wolf is faithful by nature, and we have no reason to suspect today that we have hybrids in coal other than in Eastfold. Then SV in a well-known old style has used the opportunity to fill the rule of environmental policy. I would recommend SV to go to the source and look at what was actually said in the questionnaire. I was asked if I would rule out that wolfy could be the basis for support for school kissing. I can't. But I also said that subjective fear must be weighed up against objective danger, neither more nor less. I was also asked if I can guarantee that under no circumstances and at any time can there be confrontation between the wolf and people. And I can't guarantee that. I think it's incredibly important that we in this discussion and in the dissemination of information are perfectly honest. But I also said that there is a greater risk of an accident if you like. I think it's also realistic to realize that today there's a lot more danger of being injured by an elk with a calf than by a wolf if you go into the woods. Information on wolves is important and difficult – important to meet fear, difficult because we lack experience. We have gone from a situation in which the wolf was practically eradicated until we are now building a viable population. It is true that a lot has happened since Stortinget dealt with the robbery message, but that was also the intention. We were going from a situation where the big predators were threatened to a situation of viable populations. Nor is it unnatural that the level of conflict increases when there are more predators. Therefore, it is important to cooperate with the municipalities. We have placed great emphasis on meeting people who experience this every day, from the political leadership of the Ministry of the Environment and from the Directorate for Nature Management, we have put great emphasis on prevention measures, conditional killing permits, changes in wildlife law, increased compensation, systematic tracking and not least research. Finally, let me say that it was a prerequisite when we dealt with the report of predators, that we should take care of species that occur naturally in Norway. It is not conflict-free, but environmental authorities are working to mitigate conflicts in line with the guidelines of the majority of population.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e549	As a result, we have completed the handling of case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2000-01-28.ana.ud157e558	There is no record available.
