ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e24	It is an almost unanimous committee that today recommends the development and operation of Ringhorne, as it appears in St.prp. No 36 for 1999-2000. The proposition indicates that Esso Norway AS applied on 8 November 1999 for the approval of the plan for the development and operation of Ringhorne, which consists of nine major and minor oil accumulations in the Balder region. The proposal sets out in detail the main features of the plan for both expansion and operation, as well as impact assessments for business and general interest. Production from Ringhorne is planned to start in 2001 and is expected to last until 2027. The minority of the Committee, consisting of the Socialist Left Party, points out in its observations that the proposition should be returned to the Government, justified by an ongoing legal case between the Esso Norge AS and the Smedvig Group. However, I do not see that this is relevant to the case itself and I also take it for granted that the department has carefully assessed this in the preparation of the case. The majority have also noted that the best technological solutions for the treatment of CO2 and NOx will be used within a sound financial framework and that they will be organised to adapt the power generators to low-NOx technologies as soon as they are available. The Committee also points out that the development of Ringhorne represents an overall investment of up to DKK 8,14 billion with a socio-economic profitability analysis of currently DKK 2,8 billion. This means that Ringhorne will be economically robust even in relation to periods of low oil price. I feel like the case rapporteur does not need to say more in this matter. There is one matter on which there is a relatively large consensus in the committee, and I would therefore recommend the vote on St.prp. 36, as it stands today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e37	The rapporteur has presented the facts of the matter in an excellent way, and I am afraid that a person can be seen as a troublesome meeting when a person takes the floor in a matter to which it is almost unanimous agreement. I will nevertheless link a few comments to St.prp. No 36 and the setting. The project, as the rapporteur said, is profitable and, according to the Department, sufficiently robust against both low oil prices and increased costs. The development of Ringhorne means jobs in an industry that is currently almost unsolicited. Nevertheless, what strikes me is how much emphasis is placed today on the environmental aspects of the expansion of the socket – both in the proposition and in the setting. That's good. The strong focus on the environmental aspects of Norwegian oil and gas production has undoubtedly led us to have a petroleum sector that is absolutely at the forefront in this area. This is the result both of the fact that the authorities have to a large extent included environmental considerations in the sector’s framework conditions, and of the industry’s high level of investment in this area. In the position of the oil notification which was dealt with in Stortinget last spring, the majority of the Committee says that it must be an objective to reconcile Norway's role as an energy nation with being a leading country in environmental matters. The majority of the Committee stressed that the petroleum industry must be involved in taking responsibility for Norway's compliance with its international climate obligations. However, the impatience of further environmental improvements must not be overshadowed by the fact that Norwegian support activities are environmentally sustainable as a result of their environmental requirements and instruments, and because they are operated by companies that impose their own and strict requirements. The petroleum industry itself has been active in limiting the environmental impact of the activity. This does not mean that there will still be no further improvement possibilities. We still have to look for improvements. What I want to underline here, as in many other things, is: with clear demands and limits to the industry, the way becomes as we go.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e52	The oil price is high, and the oil companies have to salt in the grass – and well. The majority of the population recently decided to reduce the CO2 tax, which resulted in an important environmental incentive weight, which means that the profitability of e.g. construction of gas-fired power stations separating and landfilling CO2, became more doubtful. Therefore, at a time when climate problems are increasing, it is a pity that all parties except SV accept the construction of ordinary gas power plants. Total emissions from the platform will now be 70 000 tonnes of CO2 per. years in total, but these could become much smaller if a selected so-called CO2-free solution. The fact that climate-emission comrades in the Progress Party, the Right and Work Partnership are not concerned about this is now one thing, but that the center comrades who want to present themselves as modernists in the debate on gas power, including the withdrawal of the years, are more amazing. Of course, the solution, as SV suggests, is to review the power supply problem. If you do this quickly, while raising the CO2 charge, you will be able to deal with this matter before the summer break, just to ensure what was important in the gas power debate, simply to develop technology for CO2-free gas power. And it's also important to make it clear that if you do this fast, you can do it before summer. Then a climate rustle takes seriously. Petroleum tax legislation is under review – and it is necessary. The system needs to be streamlined so that the community can get out better. It is unthinkable, in the SV's view, that large, strong, multinational companies should be able to sue smaller companies, and in this way, among other things. threaten the workspaces, then be able to send 78 pst in the next round. of the invoice back to the Norwegian people. This must be cleaned up in the context of the new tax ego. However, it should also be possible, on the basis of societal considerations, for Norwegian authorities to press forward reconciliation in matters that threaten income, businesses and jobs. SV would like to send the matter back to the Government, and I take this up with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e65	Sir. Langeland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e68	The left joins the majority and believes this is a relatively curative matter. It is a robust project, a major focus on the environment, and it will make an important contribution to job development related to the yard industry. The contributions of the representative for Langeland may provide a basis for certain reflections. Langeland indicated that, in connection with Ringhorne, there should be production of energy by gas and that he wishes to postpone it until there is scope for doing so with so-called CO2-free gas power plants. It could be close to asking whether SV wants to postpone all expansion projects in the North Sea where it is production until the new technology is available. Langeland said that a postponement could be combined with a decision before the summer. I thought that was a delay, but it was repeated. It is quite obvious that a postponement, as SV wants, will mean that this project will be postponed for a long time. I have also noted that the SV in the media originally justified their commitment to this matter with the unresolved legal case between the Esso and the Smedvig team. Later he has refreshed the position of raising an environmental justification, and I don't think it was significantly improved by what Langeland had today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e79	Ask, sir. Langeland around lines?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e82	He asked for a short post.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e87	Here we go, sir. Langeland such an article.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e90	The left hand column provides a basis for SV to specify some things. The SV's emphasis is simply the fact that the Left, together with the bulk of the flooding, reduces the CO2 tax and thus removed an important incentive to start the so-called CO2-free gas power plants. The industry itself has said that. Had it been a higher CO2 tax, it would have been easier to generate profitability for the new technology. Of course, there's also the left, but it leaves them alone. It is true, as the Left says, that SV is very annoyed by the fact that large multinationals are doing their job in the way they do, and that Norwegian authorities should be able to play a role in pushing forward reconciliation when it comes to jobs, employment and high incomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e99	I am pleased that there is such a strong connection to the development and operation of Ringhorne in the committee. The supplier industry is now in a very difficult period. It is almost empty in the order books at many Norwegian courts. Many have already been cancelled or permitted – more may be in the future. The development of Ringhorne is therefore important to get the activity up, and not least to get the optimism back in a difficult time too many in the industry. In recent times, there has been an impression that the oil industry in Norway is on the verge that this industry is without a future. Fortunately, that is not right. Oil and gas are one of Norway's most important industries, and it will be for many years to come. We have been extracting oil and gas for nearly 30 years, and I hope we can do so for at least 30 new years. Unfortunately, the fields that we found are smaller than the fields that we found before, and so it's harder to get money out of the extraction of oil and gas from these fields. So these fields are smaller, but there's probably more of them, so we can still have some activity on the base. Oil industry is highly technological and needs skilled labour. In many areas, we're completely in the throes. It is important that we are able to take care of the technological level we have within this industry. If we're going to do that, we have to have some activity in the sector, otherwise there's a great danger that very many of those who work before the industry and have knowledge find other jobs elsewhere. The working party has long been committed to strengthening this industry, both in order to secure employment, further develop existing competences, and not least in order to secure income for the community. I feel that we are now seeing the results of the improvements made in the framework conditions, not least in connection with the revised national budget last year. There were important measures that were adopted at the time, and the measures have, in my view, been involved in and helped to bring up the activity that is now taking place. After the government change, the government has granted permission to expand Tambar and Heidrun, Norne and Draugen gas exports. In addition, we have sent a case to Stortinget where we recommend the development of White Bear and Grane. These projects have a total investment framework of DKK 35 billion and will give employment effect to thousands of people who don't have eligible options today. The expansion we are talking about today will give new jobs to the supplier industry and will be important to keep the employment up. New developments under planning will hopefully be decided in the course of the year, so that they too can create the necessary employment, and thus contribute to sustaining competence in this area. The representative from SV believes that we should now refund the fees we paid last year. We need to be clear that in this case it means that one has adjustments to the framework once a year, with the negative effect it will have. Not least, I feel that in the difficult situation that we are now in, one would be on the wrong path if one were to impose new, negative conditions on this industry. I am quite sure that if we had done what SV is now going in for, the result would not be an increase in activity in Norwegian shipyards, but rather a reduction, and in a period where the situation is already very difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e123	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e126	The council referred to SV at the end of its article, which makes it necessary for me to clarify SV's position. Throughout the debate, the majority of the population went in to lower the environmental cost on the base and were pressured to do so by others. the oil industry, SV had the same position. The reason was that if a high CO2 tax exists, a small number of technologies can develop in the environmental field as well, and it is important for SV to obtain it. When the bulk of the population was pressured, the oil price was relatively low. Now the oil price is at an incredibly high level, and then it would not be problematic to have a higher CO2 charge. But it should never be reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e133	I think it is right to state that Norway has the highest CO2 tax in terms of oil extraction. So there's no one – at least not the party I represent – who thinks that one should not have the pricing of the environmental costs of this industry. But what's absolutely certain is that if we hadn't made the changes we made last year, it wouldn't have been the development of new and more environmentally friendly technology. Then it would have been decommissioning, and there would have been a reduction in the technological environments we have in this area. Even if I share Langeland's view, that there should be a pricing of environmental costs, we still have to find a balance that allows one to keep the environment up and also to keep up the activity. So I'm very afraid – to repeat it – that if we hadn't made the changes that we made last year, we wouldn't have had this case, nor had we had the issues that I sent and that are now in the committee. We're forced to find a balance here, otherwise there's at least no development of new technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e140	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3078]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e156	Norwegian and international petroleum activities are undergoing rapid change. It also challenges the Norwegian oil and gas sector to make the necessary adjustments and adaptations that can best take care of the interests of both companies and the country at all times. According to St.meld. No 37 for 1998-1999, which came under the previous government, it appears that an assessment of the country’s involvement in the petroleum industry has been undertaken. It also assesses the direct economic involvement of the State and the future role and organisation of Statoil. The Committee stresses that the country's involvement in the petroleum industry implies high economic values. It is therefore necessary to organise the involvement in such a way as to ensure long-term management for the benefit of society. The majority of the Committee emphasises in its position that the matter will be brought before the Grand Duchy in its entirety by means of a separate communication, hopefully by the end of spring 2000. In the light of the investigations carried out, the complexity of the matter and its high values, the majority believe that the case of partial privatisation and listing of Statoil should be dealt with in the context of the notified notification of petroleum. As the rapporteur on the matter, I therefore recommend that this matter not be dealt with in the present sitting, but that we wait until the Government arrives at Stortinget with the announced communication. I'm not going to take any more of Tingets' time tonight, but I'm going to take up the majority's proposal for a decision that Document No. 8:52 on the partial privatization of Statoil, is annexed to the Protocol, while I ask the other proposers to consider making their proposals for transmission, despite the impatience which I know both the Right and the Advance Party have in this matter, and which will probably be expressed later, after my intervention.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e171	For the sake of order, the President would draw attention to the fact that the setting has already been printed and that the setting is not necessarily recorded. On the other hand, the President expects a number of proposals to be addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e174	One of the objectives of establishing the State oil company Statoil was to believe that the State needed the company as an oil policy instrument in the exercise of Norwegian oil policy. In today's situation, Statoil's role is quite different, as the company is now a fully integrated oil company in competition with others. The Party of Advancement considers, inter alia, that: having regard to the fact that the time has now come for the company to be listed and partially privatised. In doing so, the company will have the necessary access to work under the same framework conditions as its competitors, with a more competent and unambiguous corporate economic ownership. Another and very important advantage is to change the relationship between the public and the company through a partial privatisation, so that there can be real negotiations between two parties and not between the company and the owner as today. In addition, an exchange listing will provide opportunities to assess the financial performance of the company against its competitors in a much better way, through the transparency and attention to which the company will be subject and which is currently required of the capital market. The recent billion excesses also make it clear that the company has not had the necessary cost management and control, which is imperative for a company of this size. The company has recently been subject to very negative attention on the basis of disclosures of parachute or back-up contracts without the owner, the Norwegian State through the Government, being responsible for cleaning up these matters. Opponents of partial privatisation have claimed that official control of the company was important, but the example I have shown makes it clear that the company's management and board has been allowed to operate freely without interference from the owner, the Norwegian State. The proposal under consideration today was put forward by the Progress Party for approx. A year ago. In connection with the treatment of the previous oil notification, St. meld. No 37, which had actually expired on the date when we got it, asked Stortingen for a new update by the end of 1999. In the meeting between the rapporteur-in-Office of the Council and the authors of the proposals this autumn, it was agreed that our proposal should be dealt with together with the new oil notification, provided that it arrived within a reasonable time, so that we could deal with it at the latest in the spring part-session 1999-2000. Just before Christmas we were informed that the message had to be postponed until the month change of February/March, and in the new year we were told that the message had been postponed indefinitely. The reason would appear to be that the national government of one of the government parties does not have the power to address these important questions. In the light of this paralysis, I asked that our proposal be put on the rails immediately for consideration in the committee. At an international time of major structural changes in the oil environment, the political environment in Norway is unable to take any action. In our proposal we want to spend 20 pst. of the company's shares for sale and listing the company. In addition, 15 pst are transferred. of the shares of all Norwegian citizens over the age of 18, since it is actually the Norwegian people who are the real owner of the company. This, if we base the last year's valuation, will give all of these stock values for NOK 4000-5000, and will also provide Norwegian people with solid adult training in how the stock market works. In addition to that, we're transferring 10 pst. of the shares of the Social Security Fund and the remaining 55 pst. the shares are transferred to the ordinary management of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I am both surprised and disappointed by the total lack of support our proposal has received in addition to its own party. The surprise is, of course, that several parties have spoken out and, as far as I know, also agreed in their party organisations that they want to share the private sector and market the company. But unfortunately it also turned out this time to be nothing but a party speaker without any real content. We're just going to have to take note of this. I would like to put forward in the vote the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e193	Øyvind Vaksdal has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e196	I would first like to state that I share the impatience expressed by the representative of Vaksdal. We in the Right too have had to endure a lot of criticism for our impatience in the Statoil case. We have on several occasions wanted to put the sub-privatisation issue on the agenda, but have then been met that there will soon be a message to discuss this issue, and therefore it is completely unnecessary for the Right to press too much. Nevertheless, we have now registered that after the change of government, the new Minister of Energy has speeded up, and we have now been promised that we will both be presented with a big message discussing the framework conditions for the petroleum industry and a proposition that addresses the question of Statoil and the treatment of HOUSE. I do not intend to make this the great Statoil debate. However, when I take the floor, it is because the right in the vote has put forward a proposal asking the Government to facilitate partial privatisation and listing of Statoil. I would like to underline this point with stock exchange quotations. The right has registered that the National Government of the Workers' Party has opened up the possibility for Statoil to enter into a strategic partnership with another company, thereby bringing private capital into Statoil. For the Right, it is essential to provide for an exchange quotation. I believe it would be a wrong way to go to exclude the Norwegian people from being a shareholder in Norway's largest oil company. I would also like to remind you that one of the main reasons of Statoil's board of directors for partial privatisation was stock exchange listing, so that they receive daily feedback and testing on the stock exchange as their competitors get. However, I have recorded that even in the Labour Party leadership has not at least excluded an exchange quotation as part of a broad oil policy compromise. I have registered that several other parties have also done so, and therefore we see no need to provoke a vote today on the stock exchange listing issue. I would therefore like to state that the Right's proposal is being transformed into a transmission proposal, so that it can be included in the further discussions of the Government and also in the discussions to be held by the Stortingen in the autumn. When the Right cannot vote in favour of the Advance Party's proposal, it is not because we disagree with many of the elements of it, but we believe it would be wrong to already determine in percent how much is going to be spent on sale, how much is going to be made of people's shares, etc. I would therefore think it would have been wise if the proposal of the Progress Party had also been sent, so that it could also be included in the great assessment that we are about to make. If, however, the Progress Party wishes to vote on the proposal, the Right will, as I said, vote against it while we transmit our own.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e209	Sir. Mr. Sanner mentioned the proposal he referred to, and at the same time turned it into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e212	There is a lot of ambiguous signals coming from different parties. Among other things, there have been different signals from the Labour Party, and there have also been different signals from the Centre Party. It makes it necessary for the Storting to be precise in its formulations to the Council of State if the Storing awaits back. Therefore, SV takes up its proposal to reject the whole issue, not least according to the rules of democracy. The Labour Party's former Prime Minister and Prime Minister candidate wrote something very reasonable on January 3rd this year: ‘It is too early to conclude on this matter, but our starting point must be that the oil and gas resources belong to the whole population. It is difficult to imagine that a dramatic change in oil and gas policy can take place before the elections in 2001.’» According to SV's opinion, this makes a lot of sense. It is very important to maintain the confidence of the voters. In 1997, the voters were able to read not only in their programme, but in their programme and in their programme that the privatisation of state ownership of the petroleum industry did not come into play. Then there would be a breach of trust on the part of the same parties if they were to be in a multiple that decided something like that, which they did not choose. Yes, even the centre party, when they were going to present their policy in the Adult Declaration, was very clear that Statoil still has to be a whole state-owned company. It's in the Voksenå Declaration. Now there are things going on there too. Against this background, it is worrying when not all parties – I do of course exempt the Right Party and the Advance Party – can reject a proposal for privatisation and listing in cash. In addition, it is in the SV's opinion to keep the selections for fools. Then don't be surprised that the game in the house goes down - as long as you can't trust the game you're choosing. In this case, the minority government of the Labour Party cannot say that it is required to find multiple solutions. If a game is based only on their programs, which they opted for, including the Worker's Party, then there is a multiple to let that happen after the 2001 election. It is SV's strong recommendation to the Council of State in connection with the forthcoming ownership debate. Oil and gas deposits are the property of the Norwegian people, and this right of ownership and the possibility of income is, of course, weighted if private shareholders are to be allocated their share of the surplus. So SV will not make changes to the administration, and it should of course be for everyone who has promised their constituents not to privatize, to reject this proposal. As long as the proposal is in the lead, it is important for us and for the majority of people to give notice to the sitting government that Jagland's birthright is in line with the majority of people who want it, that's to follow democracy's rules of play. More than Jagland and SV should be busy with just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e228	Sir. Langeland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e231	It was the post from the representative of Langeland that got me to take the floor for a brief comment. He is engaged today in a debate that can best be seen as a pre-post-fection. Any debate should be held until the notification of petroleum has been made, as proposed by the majority. It's pointless to discuss Statoil's future as a matter of nature, the more because Statoil is and becomes an instrument and not a goal in itself. There is reason to stress in the light of the criticism that the representative of Langeland has just gone to the Central Party. In our ongoing expansion election program, Statoil is still to have a central position in Norwegian petroleum industry and is a wholly owned state-owned company. This program entry is still a guide to the central party's policy, but not the only one. The aim of the policy is of superior value. As you know, it is a goal to ensure that oil resources in the North Sea are housed for our common good. Oil resources are the property of the people. Establishing a strong oil-industrial environment is an important aspect of this. Statoil's involvement abroad is known to be more controversial, and we do not know the results of the risk assessments that were started. It's got to be my comment so far, because we get plenty of opportunity to come back to the whole case complex. But I would like to remind the representative of Langeland of the following: The Statoil Board made proposals for the partial privatisation of the company and argued publicly for its views. In that situation, the current Council of State, Marit Arnstad, stood open to evaluate all moments, and it was just to be lacking. In the government position, the central party was able to formulate important premises for the future Norwegian oil policy, and the party organisation was given part in the discussion. One starting point here was that in such cases it's not good enough just to wave your own little tab, especially when the option was to be able to exercise real influence through a potentially extensive oil compromise. I want to mention that when we read the program, it's especially important to keep the right order of objectives and means. The first is of course superior to the last. The criticism the representative of Langeland has just arrived indicates that he has not got that point. The centre part will discuss the future of Statoil when the kerosene message is ahead. No conclusions have been drawn so far, but it is clear that we will support the approach that is leading the oil policy closest to the objectives outlined in our programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e242	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3078]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e258	In early 1990, the alarming report on the impact of pollution came from, among others, the nickel plant on the Kola peninsula. Large emissions of sulphur dioxide from the Nikel melting plant had consequences for nature and the environment, not only in the area around the factory, but also on the Norwegian side of the border, especially in East Finland. The visible and most concrete impact was serious damage to the forest on both sides of the border. We were once again reminded that environmental problems are of a cross-border nature. The emissions from the nickel mill were nearly 250000 tonnes per year. It corresponds to almost five times the total sulphur dioxide emissions from all Norwegian sources. This led to a personal start by the Syse government and the Prime Minister to work together with the Soviet Union to clean up the industry. The employment administration brought Sweden and Finland together in the discussions, and during 1990 an agreement was a reality. The Norwegian side decided to contribute 300 million. kr. The initiative of the Syse-Registration was, for several reasons, ground-breaking environmental policy work. It was a real attempt to move from the great words to concrete action in international environmental cooperation, and it was the achievement of the objective of a cost-effective environmental policy. 300 million. kr invested in clean-up measures in Nikel would bring a much greater environmental benefit than the same funds invested here at home. Today, ten years after Prime Minister Jan P. Syse got the Stortinget to earmark $300 million. kr for environmental measures in Kola, still stands at 270 million. kr unused. At the same time, we know that the environmental problems in North-West Russia are enormous and that they continue to threaten nature and the environment in Norway. There are several reasons why the money has not been used. The closure of the Russian Ministry of Ecology, Russian bureaucracy and the uncertainty surrounding the future of the nickel industry have posed significant challenges. However, I believe that it is too easy to place responsibility unilaterally on the Russian side. The depriority of this work after the fall of the Syse-Registration, among others. transferring responsibility from the Prime Minister's office to the Ministry of the Environment has reduced the focus and pressure on the matter. I think, unfortunately, that this case is an example that it can often be easier to find good explanations than good solutions. The issue of Norwegian environmental aid to Russia has dimensions far beyond the desire to limit pollution. It is about how we can assist the former Communist states in their efforts towards democracy and the market economy. A very important part of this work has been environmental remediation in state-run industries and support for nuclear safety measures. That's why the Right every year since the Syse government has called for a stronger commitment. And I would like to stress that Norwegian involvement in the north is crucial also in order to increase the involvement and participation of the United States and the EU. The challenges are such that we need to mobilise more good forces if we are to succeed in the clean-up work. The fight for US and EU attention is great. If we succeed in getting the challenges higher on their priority list, we will also achieve good results. However, the problem is that over time, Norwegian authorities have decentralised their efforts. And then the negative effects are going to be big. It may be an exaggeration to call the 1990s for the lost decade, but it is a reality that we have achieved little and lost a lot of time. But now it's important to look forward. And I have great expectations for the new Environment Minister. As I understand it, Siri Bjerke has both knowledge, interest and commitment related to the major environmental challenges in the north. And like the Right, the Minister has said that she will pursue a modern environmental policy – in other words, focus on: international cooperation cost-effectiveness research to promote technological development They initially referred to $300 million. kr earmarked for cleaning measures at the Nikel melting plant. There have been particular problems with this project because the Norilsk-Nikel group has questioned the future of the melting plant. As a result, in the autumn of 1998 the right initiative was taken to re-prioritize the funds. And in the budget position for 1998-99, an overall committee, with the exception of the Advance Party, opened up so that the funds could be used for other environmental measures in the Kola Peninsula. In other words, they are no longer bound to the Nikel melting plant. It has now been a year and a half since Stortingen opened up to alternative use of the funds. It is not the fault of the current Environment Minister that the results have still not been achieved, but I hope that she can say something about how the department has responded to Stortinget's wish. I would like to take this opportunity to point out two possible projects for the reallocation of funds. The first option is to establish an investment fund for the conversion and purification of the melting plant in Montjegorsk, Kolahalv Island. According to Bellona, the economy of Montsegorsk is much more sustainable, and the melting plants in the city are believed to be able to cope with competition and the market economy. The damage to nature is very serious, and emissions from it constitute the biggest acid rain problem in the North Callot. Another proposal is to move the money to an environmental investment fund for Norwegian business in North West Russia. A large number of enterprises possess expertise and technology that is sought to transfer to North-West Russia for environmental projects. These are mainly energy measures, but also waste and drinking water-related projects. Today, it is a major problem that short-payback environmental projects are not realised due to lack of capital on the Russian side. This may include investments related to bioenergy or new electricity that can replace heavy oil or coal. Such projects may have a payback time down to one year. In the old Soviet Union, heavy oil was almost free for communities and industrial businesses, while expenditure today threatens to crack a budget. In other words, Norwegian aid for such investments can both have a positive impact on the environment and at the same time release funds for which local communities can use, for example: school and health. It is not possible to talk about the environmental challenges in North-West Russia without addressing nuclear safety. Despite the almost unimaginable problem we are facing, and we know that we need to find a solution, the Norwegian appropriations have fallen sharply. Whether the government’s reduced focus on nuclear safety in North-West Russia is a consequence of the reduced appropriations or whether budget cuts have been a consequence of reduced attention is later less interesting. Now we need nuclear safeguards on the agenda and on the government's priority list. In concrete terms, I would challenge the Minister for the Environment, in cooperation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, to take on a leading role in international cooperation that is necessary to achieve good results. What is especially important now is to advance the work of securing the nuclear fuel that is currently very indebtedly stored. I would also like to underline the value of help to self-help programmes that can contribute to increased exchange of experts. This will ensure that competences are strengthened and that they remain in Russia to a greater extent. I do not expect the Council of State to respond to the specific proposals I have pointed out, but I hope that the Minister for the Environment will present a positive attitude and not least an offensive strategy for Norwegian emergency aid to our neighbours in the east. The new Minister for the Environment is facing a demanding task. I can promise that the Right will continue to be an impatient driver to increase Norway's environmental aid to North-West Russia, but at the same time I can promise that the Right will support the Government if it takes the environmental responsibility Norway should take.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e310	I agree with Mr Sanner that Norway, as a neighbouring country to Russia, has an interest in contributing to solving the major environmental problems facing it. This has been an objective since the start of environmental cooperation between Norway and the then Soviet Union in 1988. The environmental protection management has built up a long-term cooperation structure with a view to contributing to better management and business in Russia to address its environmental challenges in the future, with the support of the cooperation programme with Central and Eastern Europe. Because the project is so important, I would like to go through some of the history of cleaning at Petsjenga-Nikel. In the summer 1990 negotiations between the Norwegian, Finnish and Russian authorities on a project to modernise and reduce sulphur emissions from the nickel plant in Petsjenga, the government of Syse announced that it would provide up to 300 million aid. kr to environmental measures in Kola to contribute to an environmentally acceptable reduction of these severe emissions. However, these negotiations did not lead to any concrete outcome. In an interpellation debate in 1993, Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland replied that the Government would continue to work to find an acceptable solution. Since then, work has been a high priority through changing governments. I can assure you that it is also important for this government to contribute to the positive outcome of the case. Since a Norwegian-Swedish consortium consisting of Elkem Technology, Kværner and Boliden Contech won an international bidding competition which was announced by the Russian authorities for the modernisation of Petsjenga-Nikel, design work has been carried out in the period 1993-96 as a basis for the realisation of the project. Gro Harlem Brundtland took an initiative towards his Russian colleague in the autumn of 1995 when they signed a declaration of intent on support for the implementation of the project. And when President Yeltsin was visiting Norway in March 1996, a protocol was signed whereby the Russian government clarified the basis for financing the project. Contract for the implementation of the project was finalised between the companies and initialled in December 1996 and the Norwegian authorities actively followed up with a view to the implementation of the project. However, in April 1997 the Norwegian-Swedish consortium was informed by the management of Norilsk Nikel, as the owner of Petsjenga-Nikel, that important assumptions for the project had changed as the management of the Russian State’s ownership had been left to a private company. Furthermore, the group wanted to discuss a simplified modernisation concept. This was a collaboration with the Nordic Investment Bank, NIB, and the concept was based on one of the alternatives in the original project proposal. In view of the importance that this project would have for the environment in the northern neighbourhoods, the Nordic Investment Bank wanted to engage in the project. Since the original project option could not be implemented, the Norwegian side took a positive view of this because the importance of the project was constantly being realised. In August 1997, NIB and the Norwegian authorities were informed that the Norilsk Nikel group was formally privatised and that the new management was working on an investment programme for the group’s installations. NIB has consistently stated that Norwegian participation will be necessary for the realisation of the project, but has otherwise negotiated on its own behalf. The Norwegian side has always assumed that the total emissions of sulphur and heavy metals in Nikel and Zapoljarny would be reduced by 90 pst. As indicated in the 1999 budget proposal, the Government of Bondevik stressed that the environmental impact of the project would be significant for East Finland and that the prospects it entails for employment in the region, as well as for economic and environmental cooperation within the Barents region, should be given priority. It was therefore intended to keep the possibility open to contribute to the implementation of the project negotiated by the NIB. This has not yet been possible, but in parallel with this work, a number of other types of environmental measures have been launched to reduce pollution in North-West Russia. These have emerged through the priorities of the Joint Norwegian-Russian Environment Commission and are mainly funded by the Cooperation Programme with Central and Eastern Europe. It also applies to cooperation actions relating to nuclear safety measures. The largest Norwegian-Russian cooperation action for environmental measures in industry is the ‘Programme for cleaner production’. This work and other environmental work shall be further prioritised over time. In many enterprises, this programme has trained operational engineers. A number of profitable environmental improvement measures have been implemented. This has also benefited Petsjenga-Nikel from the implementation of enterprise-internal training programmes. Important improvement measures have been implemented and significant local environmental competence has been built up. In addition, scientifically documented information has reduced fear and uncertainty and provided much better information on environmental conditions in North-West Russia. In border areas, we have documented the extent of pollution in air, water and the terrestrial ecosystem as well as the impact on the health of the local population. The focus and pressure in North-West Russia has not been reduced as a result of the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment for the project in Petsjenga-Nikel. The government will continue to cooperate across the departments concerned to give priority to the North-West Russia initiative. A significant effort has been made by environmental protection authorities to realise this modernisation project, and we have not been willing to let it go because it has always been progressing in the matter, even if one has not yet found a solution. The reason why we haven't released it is the significant emissions, which the representative Sanner also referred to at the beginning of his post. However, the unstable political and economic situation of changing ownership has made it possible for us not yet to implement the project. However, we hope that the project on which the Nordic Investment Bank is still negotiating can be realised, and we still see a basis for working on this. A central instrument would then be to maintain the mandate attached to this important project in the Kola Peninsula. Therefore, neither the previous government nor this government has found it natural to address the issue of the termination of this mandate. NIB now informs us that a pre-structured modernisation project based on the original tender contract has been assessed by the Norilsk group management, and a response from the group management is expected during the summer. The Government will therefore come back to this matter in the 2001 budget proposal on the basis of the situation at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e338	I record that the Council of State says that the work has had a high priority. Obviously, the priority has not been high enough. I think it's a little bit satisfactory the explanation given that 270 million. of 300 million. kr remains unused after 10 years. It confirms that in this case it has been easier to find good explanations than to find good solutions. I am also a little surprised at the defensive attitude of the Council of State. I had expected the Council of State to take this opportunity to present a more offensive strategy and perhaps mark a shift in line with the previous government, which has focused on many areas of environmental policy, but which has had a too weak focus on the problems in North-West Russia. I record that you will still keep the opportunity open for investment in the nickel mill. After the information I have received, the group management questions whether the work will survive, and it seems strange to me that this project will continue to be prioritised. As I said, the size has opened up a possible redeployment of funds, and I would like to ask the Council of State if it is now willing to set a deadline for the use of these funds before any re-priority is put in place. I would also like to ask the Council of State what level of ambition the new Government has with regard to Norway's contribution to being a participant in solving environmental problems in North-West Russia. What initiatives will be taken in relation to the EU to step up its commitment, and what role can it play in this respect? As I said, I'm a little surprised that the Council of State doesn't use this opportunity to mark a line change and indicate that the new Government puts the environmental problems in North-West Russia higher on the priority list, that one is more concerned with presenting good explanations than putting the good solutions on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e349	The reason for my review of the history of the Petsjenga-Nikel project is that I still see a potential for this important project. And when it's so important for Norway, it's precisely for the reason that Jan Tore Sanner stressed that huge amounts of sulphur dioxide are emitted from this plant close to the border of Norway. Although the emissions are probably slightly lower than at the time Sanner referred to, they will be around 240 000 tonnes per year, and that is many times the Norwegian emissions. When, in addition, we have a strategy for negotiations that has not yet proved to be a failure despite the fact that the project has had a long history, and despite the failure of proposals due to the enormously difficult situation that is on the Russian side both in prioritising the environment and in having the economy to invest in such measures, I think it is very important to give this project a further chance. On the other hand, it is clear that it is important to invest in several arenas in environmental activities in North-West Russia. Several key areas were identified, including: the nuclear safety work. In this area, Norway is a leading international country. We are a leading country in getting the EU and the United States involved in this area, and here the Government will continue its efforts and have an offensive strategy, because it is vital that we do not act alone in this area. There are significant interests in foreign and security policy that require wider international involvement. Also in a more demarcated environmental area, we have a number of challenges beyond Petsjenga-Nikel, which I explained in my article, and we have a number of projects that have proved successful, each of them perhaps of a somewhat less nature, but with competence specifically built up in relation to business, cleaner production and energy savings. There are a number of such projects which have been shown to be feasible. We're still going to do that. However, in parallel with this, we should give the cleaning project in Petsjenga-Nikel under the auspices of the Nordic Investment Bank a continued chance, and then it would be right to retain this power in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e358	The debate and attention on the environmental problems in Kola and North-West Russia are on a regular basis. We are all aware of the dramatic situation in Norway's closest neighbourhood, and fortunately, there is a great deal of consensus in Stortinget about spending time and effort to help clean up. It is commendable for the representative, Mr Sanner, to address this debate and keep the searchlight and the pressure on it. The problems in the area are many and diverse. Poverty and social disintegration, unemployment as a result of major industrial closures, huge environmental problems related to industrial emissions and perhaps not least the situation of nuclear power stations and the treatment of radioactive waste. All this and more are very serious problems separately and beyond explosive together. For the Workers' Party, the starting point for helping to clean up and improve the situation in North-West Russia has been primarily to help the people living in the area. But there's also good evidence that helping your neighbor when there's problems is creating better relationships for himself as well. It is not difficult to understand that the problems, not only the visible environmental damage, but also the more human problems that result in the wake of developments in Russia, spread across the Norwegian border when the situation is as it is. The only way to stop it is that conditions in Russia are getting better. It is absolutely indisputable that poverty and environmental problems are linked. It is also vital that democracy continues to develop. For more than ten years, efforts to reduce environmental problems in North-West Russia have been on the political agenda. Optimism as compared to seeing results has fluctuated since the years passed and various measures have seen – or almost seen – the light of day. Although most of it has been completed and the environmental problems may not have become much smaller, a number of projects have, after all, been carried out. The unbridled and almost chaotic state of much of Russian society is in both political and economic terms, making the work very difficult. It is easy to be frustrated and impatient to see results, but it is important not to lose faith that help benefits. The concrete project interpellant is one of many important projects. It is perhaps the most visible — in a double sense — from Norway, so this needs to be given high priority, and one needs to get ahead of the work. As I said, over many years, changing governments and changing participants in the project in Nikel have been swinging up and down. It shows in itself two things – that things take time, longer time in Russia than most other places, and that in politics patience is a virtue of necessity. Finally, I shall conclude with a quotation from a well-known Russian politician who is long dead and well-preserved – Lenin. He published a font that referred to something as "something has to be done". I guess we can rewrite it and agree that a lot has to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e384	It is true that the inter-pellant and also the Council of State pointed out that Norway had, on several occasions, previously been involved in financial assistance in Russian territories. One of the major problems at my discretion has been that Russian interests and Russian authorities have shown very little interest in the follow-up of these funds. There was also some reason why the Progress Party did not take part in the majority comment referred to in the Interpellation. Let me then show that it has emerged through the media that Russia has no guidelines and measures to ensure, inter alia, that: radioactive waste and maintenance of equipment. In this context, the interest of the Norwegian authorities should be to have a professional and objective assessment of the concrete impact this may have on Norwegian conditions. Of course, I am thinking in particular of the actual consequences this may have for people's health and for the natural resources of our two northernmost states. If a thorough and objective record were to be made, the Russian situation would be found to be around, among other things, Of course, the Progress Party is also willing to discuss the necessary measures to prevent this happening. Let me say, as a curiosity towards the end, that I think it's a little remarkable that the right from this pulpit almost points out that the only, the most important and right thing to do in this context is to grant these means. It would be thought that the most important thing was to enter and get international agreements, and not least a market-economy transformation in Russia, which would have led to a completely different environmental situation there as well. The environment had thus become much better. It should have been far more in the center of the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e393	The situation in North-West Russia is very serious. Over several decades, a huge environmental problem has arisen in the area, which also poses a safety risk for the whole region, including Norway in general and our northernmost part of the country in particular. Over the years, a number of international initiatives have been taken to reduce the significant environmental and safety challenges that characterise this part of Russia. Norway has also made a significant contribution in this context, and there has been a cross-political agreement that Norway must be involved and take responsibility for the situation that threatens the whole of the north. The Energy and Environment Committee has self-evidently confirmed the seriousness of the situation. During its round trip to the north-west areas of Russia for a while, the Committee was given the opportunity to visit both the nickel plant and the storage sites for depleted nuclear submarines and radioactive waste. The impressions of the journey scare and confirm the need for increased efforts, both from Norway and from the international community, to reduce the environmental and safety risks associated with this whole area. The enormous problems of North-West Russia are also reflected in the health situation of the population. Figures show that the average life expectancy for men in this area is only about 50 years, and there is little reason to doubt that there is a clear link between the general health status of the population and the major environmental damage of the area. Of course, Norway also has a self-interest in increased focus and effort in this area. The population in our northern parts of the world feels a legitimate concern for the situation, including: related to the consequences of possible nuclear accidents and also other threats related to the environment in general. More than ten years ago, an important initiative was taken by the then government of Syse to address the problems associated with the Nikel melting plants. It was set by considerable sums earmarked for efforts against these works. Later governments, including the central government, have also had a significant focus on the problems in the northern regions. Nevertheless, a substantial part of the funds allocated has not been used. It is unsatisfactory, although it must be said that obstacles by the Russian authorities are also a strong contributory cause for this. Interpellant Jan Tore Sanner makes a legitimate request to the Council of State that she follow this up as a priority bet area, among others. Having regard to the opening of an almost total committee for the use of funds on other important environmental measures in the Kola peninsula, The Christian People's Party joins in such a request and asks the Council of State to intensify and follow up efforts to reduce environmental problems in North-West Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e414	First of all, let me just make a brief comment on the contribution by Robert Erikson of the Progress Party, noting that he must have totally misunderstood what this interpellation is all about, but it confirms in this way the lack of policy by the Progress Party on both aid and environmental issues. Let me then express my joy at the fact that the Council of State shares the Right's view of the environmental challenges we face in the north. But then it is important, as the inter-pellant stressed, that the Council of State is also willing to allow this to be translated into concrete and more offensive action, not least because there is a broad consensus in the Grand Duchy that an improvement in the environmental situation in Kola is also in Norway’s interest. The environmental situation is serious, and it is in Norwegian interest to prevent it from deteriorating, even in places that are geographically further away from our neighbourhoods. In the Kola Peninsula there are between 70000 and 80000 fuel elements, and the storage of spent elements is a major problem. In this regard, it is worrying that a year ago Russia started planning to accept 10,000 tonnes of radioactive waste in order to make money to the Treasury. This waste was to be stored on Mayak, where there are already at least 44 000 spent fuel elements, 26 000 kg of plutonium and 200 landfills with half a million tonnes of solid radioactive waste. Mayak is perhaps the most polluted area in the world. The situation would not improve if Russia were to now accept additional waste. At the same time, the Norwegian authorities have contributed to the financing of shipments of waste from Kola Peninsula to Majak in railway wagons. This project is funded by the bilateral agreement between Russia and Norway on nuclear safety. I would therefore like to ask the Council of State: how is this case today, and in what way will the Norwegian authorities ensure that the use of Norwegian environmental funds does not contribute to the deterioration of the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e425	It is just as the interpellant says that Norway has a particular responsibility and interest in helping to solve the major environmental problems that exist in the Barents region. The situation in North-West Russia is particularly problematic. But honestly, I thought the representative Jan Tore Sanner was interpolating about $300 million. It is that Norway is an important and active foreign policy player in the Barents region. Compared to other countries, Norway has a high profile in the region. The way the interpellation is designed, we can easily get the impression of something else, and in case it's unthinkable. Of course, it is interesting for Stortinget to know the reasons why the funds are not made operational. Today, the Minister for the Environment has come with a reply, and in my view, that is satisfactory. There is evidence that the problems identified do not give rise to Norwegian inaction and that there is no reason to criticise the former government. Of course, the representative Jan Tore Sanner has the best motivation to engage in the major environmental problems in North-West Russia. But, as I said, Norway is there, and our task is to move with other countries, including the EU, in order to meet the challenge of fighting. Unfortunately, the EU continued to relinquish its share of responsibility, with little help from Sweden and Finland as members of the Union. We are talking here about environmental fraud targets that are aimed at the whole of Europe, yes, which are also global in nature. However, Brussels is a little cooperative, despite the fact that Norway has had an ongoing diplomatic offensive for several years, targeting both parliamentarians and representatives of the Council of Ministers and the Commission. Former and long-term leaders of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Haakon Blankenborg, can certainly document the Norwegian efforts on the parliamentary side. Shifting governments don't have doctors on the lat side either. Recently, the government of Stoltenberg was very committed to bringing the EU with it. I want to be happy, because so far the EU has shown little will and still appears to be little suitable as a catalyst for important environmental issues in the north. Norway, Russia, the United States, Canada – and France too – are involved, but the EU's efforts are and will be symbolic. And that's bad, because it must be allowed to expect more from an EU where Nordic countries are involved. This example shows us that we need European cooperation based on a clear and operational national and regional responsibility. The idea of a Nordic dimension before the EU is sympathetic, but still a desktop project. Norway has to a large extent focused on the environmental rug target from the north, and we need to strengthen our active work in the area. There'll be an important point in your pursuit to get others involved. At that point, I'm completely in agreement with the interpellant.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e440	Now it may be that the Minister for the Environment has so much work to do to calculate climate change emissions from these coming gas power plants that she has no time to think about anything else. I have to say that it seems very defensive what has come about in this important matter, where we have had little more. Right and SV have had to deal with this matter and have tried to be a driver in relation to different governments, but have not had any particular success that drives either, as the results are as few as they are. Nevertheless, I will give tribute to the Right, who again takes up this matter on the basis that now we have to get more concrete things, get results. And that is the responsibility of the Minister for the Environment. The work on tackling environmental problems in North-West Russia depends on good cooperation, of course, with the regimes in Moscow, but not least on good cooperation with local authorities and e.g. local business. You can ask whether you want to bet no more on the local contact network, and whether this might increase the chances of getting a better result. In this context, it may seem that the nickel works are to be phased out – at least from which emissions have been reduced in the past. Then it might be a bad thing to invest monthly funds in a plant there, and I believe that the representative Sanner is interested in something when he says that a rather should invest in a sulphur treatment plant in Moncegorsk. The local population — in Norway — in our northern region is busy maintaining good contact with the eastern neighbours. There is therefore great scepticism, which the Minister for the Environment should be aware of, until the escalation that takes place within military intelligence, at the end of the establishment of a new radar – Globe II. Norwegian powers must not now, ten years after the fall of the wall, drift into something and be involved in establishing radar systems for American interests. This may weaken the work of cleaning up north-west Russia. SV expects the Government to provide the work that can contribute to environmental clean-up, as well as for sulphur emissions as for the many serious radioactive sources of pollution present in the area. As others have pointed out, the Committee itself has been in the area, and the knowledge – and the contact network – of the former committee leader Stoltenberg has about the area, so that SV has the hope that it will be as rapid as the area needs. But then the Minister for the Environment must do more offensive work than she did today.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e452	I think this has been an important debate, because it shows that there is a cross-political will to continue a strong commitment to help solve the environmental problems in North-West Russia. In addition, the debate has clarified that in these kinds of questions, there are no simple explanations as to why one is unable to achieve the goals one has had ambitions about. The third thing that is important in this debate is that it can make recordings that are of value when you're going to shape the way forward. I think that's what needs to be the focus of this kind of debate – not looking at who's to blame for not coming as far as a hope, but together helping to move forward towards the goal we've set ourselves. Jan Tore Sanner is right in saying that Norway as a neighbouring country has a special responsibility in helping to solve Russia’s environmental problems. I think the answer given by the Council of State shows in a good way that this willingness has been present throughout the 1990s, and that it has been followed up with an commitment. Equally full, there's a paradox that goes beyond 300 million. kr, which was granted to reduce sulphur emissions, is unused 10 years after they were granted. However, it has not been on the political will in Norway, and I think the answer illustrated that much of the explanation that one has failed is on the Russian side. The appropriations have been directed towards emissions of sulphur in Nikel. There is reason to question whether this is the right project to bet on in the future. I'm of the same opinion as Jan Tore Sanner. At least a period of time must be set in such a way as to clarify this and, where appropriate, to take it as a starting point for a new choice of the range of bets to be made. There are many alternatives to using the funds that Norway has allocated and that I expect one to grant in the coming years. Other parts of the nickel industry are in absolute need of participation to reduce emissions. There are also major nuclear safety tasks unsolved, and close and good cooperation between Norway and Russia is needed in this area. There is also a need for competence development programmes for industry and management, etc. I want to underline the strong, clear desire of the Left to contribute to this becoming a priority task. The left will also contribute to the provision of new funds for projects contributing to an environmental offensive in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e465	The interpellant has put an important problem area in focus, but when we also focus on this with the 300 million. NOK which in its time was put at the disposal of a special project, and where there is 270 million. kr once again, it might invert this very important debate that the interpellant is obviously out to get. That it is due to a lack of priority on the part of the Norwegian authorities that precisely this money has not been used for this project, I do not think it is right. If you look at how this case has been handled over the 1990s under changing governments, there is probably no doubt that this has been a significant activity. Another aspect pointed out by the inter-pellant is that it has been opened for the re-disposal of these funds to other environmental projects in the Kola peninsula. It is such that this nickel work in Nikel in the Petsjenga valley emits enormous amounts of sulphur dioxide and metals, which are dramatic. So it's been said that we have to try to put an end to this, and it's always been in the cards that this might be possible. Therefore, it has been said by the Government that it is a good idea to leave this authority there, because if this happens now, you can intervene and get something done quite quickly. The interpellant called for greater urgency in order to get an overview of this particular case. Now this is not a project located in Hedmark or in Troms, but in a territory in a foreign state. We're going to contribute, we're going to participate, we're going to be involved in a modern international environmental policy, but we also need an invitation to do something. We're facing an independent, friendly neighboring state, and we have to play on the track half that's possible. We have given our signals, said what we want, what we are willing to do, and with a continuous contact, good contact, a common understanding and mutual trust, there are clearly opportunities for such cooperation in the future. There is reason to thank the interpellant for having taken up this important area, even though I believe that he is somewhat bogged down when it comes to the specific matter he is using to approach this large problem area.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e478	Norway and Russia are close geographical neighbours. We share a very valuable and fishing sea, the Barents Sea. This suggests that it is important for us to contribute to solutions to the specific environmental problems in North-West Russia. The main problems relate to the responsible treatment and storage of fuel and waste from decommissioned nuclear submarines. The Soviet Union had a very large fleet of nuclear submarines, much larger than the total fleet within NATO. The dimensions of the task are therefore very large. We're sorry about the 300 million. kr that was granted for the purification of emissions from Nikel, has not been used, but it may be very difficult to implement projects in Russia. After I have been informed, the Russian ability and interest in implementing this project are very small. We should therefore consider, in my view, taking the consequences of this and using the funds for other projects of environmental importance for both countries. In this context, I would like to refer to the Norwegian-Russian agreement on environmental protection cooperation in connection with the scrapping of nuclear-powered submarines. Norway knows the real problems and has developed forms of cooperation with Russian politicians and officials. This is why projects have also been implemented. Minister of State Bondevik visited in the autumn of 1999 in Arkhangelsk a warehouse for liquid radioactive waste, which was under full rehabilitation, financed by Norwegian funds. During these days construction of special railway vehicles for the transport of submarine fuels is completed. We have also contributed significantly to increasing the safety of Kola nuclear power plants. Norway is in a unique position in this work. Kværner, now called Moss Maritime, has been systematically involved in developing industrial implementation projects since 1995. The State Radiation Protection Agency has worked to enhance the competence and reputation of the Russian State Nuclear Regulatory Authority. I am aware that the appropriations for this work for the year 2000 have already been committed, and that new projects will therefore not be able to be launched in the current year. We have particularly good assumptions in this area, and Norway has demonstrated that we can achieve results here. On this basis, I would ask the Government to consider redeploying all or part of the unused funds into nuclear safety cooperation projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e499	Let me first say that more articles from both the Workers' Party, the Centre Parties and the SV show that there is a broad consensus in the Stortinget about a policy that prioritises environmental clean-up in North-West Russia. I'm glad, it's positive, and it should be followed up in the further work we're going to do in the Storting to the harvest. I record that the Council of State still wants to give priority to the melting plant in Nikel. Then there are two questions that need to be answered. One is, will the melting plant in Nikel be phased out, or won't it? The second question is whether there is a willingness to realize this project on the Russian side. I don't expect any answer to these two questions now, but I remind you that, as I said, it's been ten years since these funds were earmarked. The two questions remain unanswered, and I think it might be time to set a deadline. I otherwise record that the representative, Kjell Engebretsen, believes that the interpellation can ensnare an important debate. I can agree that there had been no problem with these 300 million. were of no use, if otherwise good results could be demonstrated, if a strong effort were to be made, an offensive position by the Norwegian side on the development of democracy, on environmental action and on industrial development. I can agree with several representatives, including: Dale, in that it does a lot. But the question is, is that enough? Is this not an area where we should increase efforts, where we should have a higher level of ambition? The question is not whether we can, the question is whether we should not have increased efforts. This is about our security in the north, and our security in the north is determined by our positive and democratic development, the better functioning of the market economy, among other things. contribute to economic development and contribute to the environmental front. Finally, when I heard the contributions of the Progress Party, I thought for a moment that Frederic Hauge and Oddekalv had managed to convince the representatives of the Progress Party at the national meeting in Inner Hordaland last weekend, but when I heard the conclusion, I understood that there was not so much that was left four days later.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e512	It would hardly help if the president informed us that it was Geiranger in Møre and Romesdal – it hardly changes the realities.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e515	The Labour Party Government will give priority to the environmental effort in Russia because the challenges are so great and because this is as important for Norway as a close neighbour to Russia. But if the environmental challenges in Russia are really to be solved, we do not get away with the fact that it is the Russian authorities themselves who have to take the biggest job of prioritising it. Cooperation between Norway and Russia in the field of the environment in recent years has just been a priority. It takes time to get results in cooperation. It's not just the investment in relation to Petsjenga-Nikel that has shown us that. Also cooperation in other areas of North-West Russia, e.g. business activity has proved to be very difficult to achieve, including: as a result of the diversity of laws and regulations and so unforeseeable in relation to the Norwegian industry. Nuclear safety work is another area that has been mentioned and to which it has also been difficult to get money out of, because there have been so many assumptions that need to be put in place before the concrete projects can be implemented. Petsjenga-Nikel is a third example. However, I do not see it as a good solution to drop these arenas in terms of cooperation, despite the fact that it is difficult in the short term to get results here. I believe that a driving role from Stortinget in this work is very important, and a driving role from an Environment Minister I will do my part to make it, and that is necessary, but still not quite enough, in much of this work, which is so dependent on cooperation with the Russian authorities, not only at the central level, but equally at the local level. I would like to comment on the locality, because I think it is very important that we in these major arenas also go more closely into cooperation with local authorities, because it can give an anchoring to prioritize the environment higher from Russian authorities, as the concrete cooperation projects we have had in this area have been clear evidence. Cleaner production, as I mentioned – we have a thousand profitable projects in companies on the Russian side – is very important in this context, and the ideas that have emerged in this debate on possible new areas of activity are also very important to take into account in the further debate. On this basis, the Government will come back with an active environmental strategy in North-West Russia in the budget proposal for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e528	So the debate is on case No. 5ths over.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e534	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e540	During the debate, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e543	Sir. President!
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e550	Mr Kleppa has the floor for the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e553	It has positive signals from several parties in relation to the two reports referred to as a background for this proposal. At the same time, there are also calls for this proposal to be a transmission proposal. We're going to meet that.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e558	The President has then recorded that the proposer wishes to convert the proposal into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The Government is invited, in the context of the 2001 budget, to submit a plan for the development of strong regions and municipalities on the basis of: (1) the distribution of State investment; (2) the decentralisation of state tasks.’; The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs on regional and regional policy be annexed to the minutes of the Storting meeting on 4 May 2000. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e578	During the debate Hallgeir H. Langeland put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘St.prp. No 36 [[1999 - 2000]] An alternative is to vote between the vote and the proposal of the Socialist Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e604	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No I, by Mr Voksdal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 3, from Hallgeir H. Langeland on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. In the course of the debate, the proposal from the Right has been converted into a transmission proposal, and it is amended accordingly. The proposal reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government facilitate the listing and sub-privatisation of Statoil.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. It is then put to the vote on the proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to privatise and market Statoil by:20 pst. of the shares in the company are offered for sale. 15 pst. the shares are transferred to the Norwegian people in such a way that each individual citizen is invited to subscribe for his or her share of the shares. All subscribers receive their holding free of charge for the recipient. This includes all Norwegian citizens over the age of 18. 10 pst. the shares are transferred to the Public Social Security Fund. Statoil shall be listed on the stock exchange. The remaining 55 pst. the shares are transferred to the Ministry of Industry and Trade’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e653	The vote will be taken alternately between the vote and the proposal by the Socialist Left. The proposal from the Socialist Left is as follows: ‘Document No. 8:52 [[1998 - 1999]]
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e670	Sir. President! I voted wrong. I should have voted for the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e677	Then the votes will be 90 for the vote and 6 for the proposal from the Socialist Left Party. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2000-05-11-2.ana.ud663e688	There is no record.
